Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Government Departments and Agencies : Fraud and Error what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of fraud and error in Government department and agency . what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of fraud and error in Government department and agency . what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of fraud and error in Government department and agency . government estimate of the amount of money lose to fraud and error vary hugely , in truth : the late estimate have a range of between £ 40 billion and almost £ 60 billion , which be a huge range . the public rightly expect we to do all we can to minimise fraud in the use of public fund , which be one reason why my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer have announce the establishment of a covid corruption commissioner , whose job it will be to track down as much as possible of the money lose to fraud during the pandemic . the Cabinet Office will work closely with the Chancellor on this to try to ensure good value for money for the public and , of course , crack down on fraud right across Government Departments and agency . covid contract fraud have cost the public purse an estimate £ 7 . 6 billion , with the previous Government assign contract worth billion for useless personal protective equipment to those with close personal connection to Ministers through their so - call vip lane . with the Chancellor announce a new covid fraud commissioner this week , can the Minister please outline how his Department will work with the Treasury to support that commissioner , in order to ensure that this egregious waste of public money be rectify and the british taxpayer get back what they be owe ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to what happen during covid , when VIP lane and dodgy contract end up burn through billion of pound , sometimes for unusable equipment . we will do everything we can to recover money that have be lose , and my Department will work closely with the office of the covid corruption commissioner to oversee that work and try to ensure the good value possible for the taxpayer . new technology must be at the beat heart of the new Government , and artificial intelligence present an opportunity to tackle waste and error . the National Audit Office have claim that the counter - fraud agency be only just begin to utilise new technology in their fight against public sector fraud , and rely on outdated legacy system and incomplete , time - lag datum . how will the Minister implement new technology , include AI , to tackle fraud and error in government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : there be potential for great use of AI in detect and root out fraud . we want the UK to be an excellent place to develop new use of AI , both in its public sector application and the development of private business . there be already a single network analytic platform , which be an AI - base detection tool to help public sector organisation detect fraud , but like many AI application , we be probably only at the beginning of what can be achieve in this area . we should use every technological tool at our disposal to secure good value for money for the taxpayer . as well as Matt Hancock ' s pub landlord score a PPE contract despite have zero relevant expertise , non - covid error , fraud and waste cost the public purse £ 58 . 5 billion in the year 2020 - 21 alone . could my right hon . friend tell we how those colossal sum of money will be recover ? he mention a commissioner ; can he also tell we how we will get rid of cronyism and nepotism , so that these thing never happen again ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the scale of the problem . the truth be that , accord to the late figure , the amount that have be recover be relatively small compare with the scale of loss . the previous Government ' s own former Minister for counter - fraud describe the conservative party ' s record as " nothing less than woeful " and riddle with " schoolboy error " , and the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , describe the previous Prime Minister ' s handling of this issue as dismissive . we can not afford to be dismissive : we have a duty to take it seriously and use whatever mean we can to bear down on fraud , so that money mean for public service and legitimate recipient of public fund be use for its intend purpose . I want to highlight innocent error where government system be fail to pick up overpayment and as a result people be chase . I be think particularly of unpaid carer earn just a few extra pound , which mean that the Department for Work and Pensions be claw back thousand from they in carer ' s allowance , because HMRC system fail to alert the DWP when earning have increase . what be the Cabinet Office do to ensure that Government system properly work to stop these thing happen ? this issue have be highlight more than once in the Chamber this week . we be of course hugely appreciative of the job that carer do , and that have to be balance with the proper use of public fund so that those fund get to the intend recipient . where there be overpayment , they do need to be recover in the interest of the taxpayer , but I hope that be always do in a proper and compassionate manner . I very much welcome the Minister to his place and wish he well in the role he now play . this be a vastly important question right across the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . do he hold statistic for Northern Ireland on the cost of fraud and error to the public purse , and what discussion will he undertake with the devolved institution to improve financial decision , particularly at the Northern Ireland Assembly ? this be my first but I suspect not my last exchange with the hon . member . I have not see a specific breakdown of this figure for Northern Ireland , but I can tell he that we take relation with Northern Ireland extremely seriously . that be why the Prime Minister go to Northern Ireland , as well as Scotland and Wales , on the weekend after the general election . Civil Service : National Pay Bargaining Units whether he plan to take step to consolidate the number of national pay bargaining unit in the civil service . whether he plan to take step to consolidate the number of national pay bargaining unit in the civil service . yesterday , I meet the civil service union together with the new Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) . we have a very positive discussion cover a whole range of issue . I make it clear that the day of Government Ministers wage culture war against civil servant be over . instead , we want a civil service that be motivate , value and help the Government to deliver their priority . on the specific issue of pay , the Government will have more to say on civil service pay before the summer recess . in 14 year , the Tory Government do nothing to tackle the ludicrous situation whereby there be over 200 pay bargaining unit for civil servant across all Government Departments and agency , a highly time - consume and inefficient process that generate unfair pay disparity between people do near - identical job in different Government office . will the Minister take this opportunity to look again at whether pay bargaining can be consolidate across the civil service , and will he agree to meet the public and Commercial Services Union to discuss the advantage of such reform ? we do value civil servant , and of course we want all public servant to be properly and fairly reward . as with any public expenditure , what be spend on pay have to be balance against other priority and fair to taxpayer as a whole . on meet the PCS , yesterday , I meet the general secretary of the PCS , as well as other civil service union . I hope for a fruitful dialogue with they . department do have flexibility on pay . they can direct pay towards the need of their own workforce . as I have say , we will have more to say about civil service pay before the summer recess . I thank the Minister for the reply he have just give . will he assure the House that he be go to make progress towards a return to full sectoral bargaining ? he must be aware that many thousand of civil servant be not cover by a pay review body or any other bargaining mechanism . will he take step to ensure that all civil servant be buy within the purview of a pay review body bargaining unit as part of a return to sectoral bargaining ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . I hope to have a good and fruitful dialogue with the civil service union about pay and many other issue . it be important that we have public servant who feel value and motivated , and who do their part on deliver the Government ' s objective . on the specific issue of pay that he have raise , as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) , the Government will have more to say on civil service pay before the summer recess . Covid - 19 pandemic : cost to public purse of Public Procurement Fraud what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of fraud in public procurement during the covid - 19 pandemic . what recent estimate he have make of the cost to the public purse of fraud in public procurement during the covid - 19 pandemic . as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster set out , the previous Government allow waste and fraud to spiral out of control . late estimate show £ 10 . 5 billion of estimate fraud and error in the covid - 19 scheme . that waste of taxpayer ' money be unacceptable and the new Government be take action . this week the Chancellor announce that she will appoint a new covid counter - fraud commissioner . it will use every mean possible to recoup public money . I welcome the Minister and the entire ministerial team to their place . public sector fraud undergo a massive spike during the pandemic , as personal relationship trump proper due diligence . with billion of pound still in the hand of fraudster , it be imperative that the new Government work quickly to recover what be lose . I therefore also welcome the Chancellor of the Exchequer ' s new covid fraud commissioner . what step will the Government and her Department take to ensure that the money be recover as quickly as possible , and indeed that something like this never happen again ? my hon . friend be right that the previous Government oversaw vip lane that lead to million in waste , and we be still unpick the impact of that lack of oversight . I have meet the Public Sector Fraud Authority to set out my commitment to strengthen the counter - fraud approach across Government . as I have say , the counter - fraud commissioner have be introduce to support their work , and will use every mean possible to recoup public money , report directly to the Chancellor . in my corner of London , concern have be express about a particular supplier be award contract worth more than £ 25 million for useless PPE , after be put forward by a former Minister in the vip lane . could the Minister say more about how the Public Sector Fraud Authority and the Treasury will ensure that every penny that can be return be return to the public purse ? I be happy to meet my hon . friend to hear more about the individual example from their constituency . as I have say , I have meet the Public Sector Fraud Authority . we have set out that tackle fraud be an absolute priority for the Cabinet Office , and we will use every lever available to we to get back what be owe to the british people . the Public Sector Fraud Authority be already work closely with the Treasury on the role of the counter - fraud commissioner , and will continue to do so . People affect by Contaminated Blood product : compensation how many people affect by contaminate blood product have receive compensation . the infected blood scandal be one of the grave injustice in our history , and it be vital that we get final compensation to victim as soon as possible . as of 30 June this year , the Government have pay more than £ 1 billion in interim compensation to those infect with infected blood product and bereaved partner register with exist support scheme . the total number of recipient of interim payment across the United Kingdom be 4 , 606 . I thank the Minister for that answer . sadly , the previous Government drag their heel with regard to this absolute tragedy — [ interruption . ] of course they will deny that , but the fact remain that two people per week be die as a result of contaminate blood , without full compensation . can he tell the House when the late report from Sir Robert Francis on the compensation recommendation will be publish ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question and pay tribute to his campaigning on this matter , include present a petition to this House on behalf of his constituent , Sean Cavens , back in April . I pay tribute to the work of Sir Robert Francis . certainly the Government will publish his report ahead of lay regulation before this House . more broadly , in respect of compensation for which victim have wait far too long , this Government be commit to pay comprehensive compensation to the infected and affected victim of the scandal . indeed , the Prime Minister say that on only his second day in office . I call the shadow Minister . may I start by offer my warm congratulation to the Paymaster General ? I offer he my sincere good wish in these opening week of a new government . I start with deep respect for he , and I wish to support he where I can while fulfil my constitutional responsibility . it be the privilege of my ministerial life during my six month in office to accelerate and then deliver the legislation to set up the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . will the Paymaster General set out what progress have be make , give the urgency of this work ? be he on track to meet the expectation of Sir Brian Langstaff and Sir Robert Francis , give the engagement he will undoubtedly have have with they already ? first , I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his welcome . I pay tribute to the work that he do in government to push this agenda forward . when I be sit where he now be , I always seek to work on a cross - party basis , while hold the Government of the day to account . it be good to hear that he will continue to work in that spirit . with respect to the timetable that he refer to , our aim be still that final compensation payment will begin to be make by the end of this year . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be establish in law , and the team be work hard to put the operational system in place to make sure that we start deliver final compensation payment by that target . when the right hon . Gentleman be sit here , he describe my commitment to set out a clear timetable as " another important victory " for the victim in deliver the compensation scheme . in that spirit , will he reassure the House that the regulation I commit to by Act of Parliament on 24 May will be lay by the three - month legal deadline of 24 August ? will he report to the House at the early opportunity on when he will respond to the inquiry ' s report , which be intend by the end of the year ? that three - month deadline be hugely important in speed up a process that frankly have take far too long for victim . I give the shadow Minister that commitment about meet that statutory deadline of 24 August . I hope to update this House soon than that on the ongoing work . European Political Community what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of discussion at the European Political Community . what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of discussion at the European Political Community . discussion at the EPC enhance co - operation on european security and advance the reset of our relationship with Europe . the EPC summit bring together 46 european leader , recommit to Ukraine ' s defence and announce a new call to action against the russian shadow fleet . the UK agree co - operation arrangement with Slovenia and Slovakia to disrupt serious and organised crime . the Prime Minister also announce an increase UK presence at Europol and an £ 84 million package to tackle upstream migration . many small business owner in my constituency of Earley and Woodley have express to I their strong need for smoother relationship with our close neighbour . I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister hold meeting last week with the Irish Taoiseach and the french President . can the Minister set out how he will build on those relationship to improve trade tie and to boost british business trade with Europe ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . as our near neighbour and as close ally , both those relationship be of great importance to the UK and to this Government ' s plan to reset our european relationship . we look forward to work closely with the irish and french government as we take forward our plan to improve the trading relationship to help boost business , job and economic growth . can the Minister outline more about the additional support offer at the European Political Community summit ? what impact be that expect to have ? in the margin of the EPC , 44 country sign up to a UK - lead call to action to tackle the russian shadow fleet , which be use malign shipping practice to evade sanction and the oil price cap . in addition , Ukraine sign bilateral security arrangement with Czechia and Slovenia . the open plenary discussion focus on the need for Europe to support Ukraine for as long as it take . I call the shadow Minister . there can be no doubt of the high regard in which the right hon . Gentleman be hold by the Prime Minister give that within his responsibility he be task with reset EU relation , reform the House of Lords and renew the constitution as well as legislation , deliver all public inquiry and complete delivery on infected blood . but will he confirm how he will work with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and whether in effect the Cabinet Office now run the Europe desk in the fcdo from 70 whitehall ? I be grateful for that question and the reminder of the number of responsibility and task that will require delivery over the come month and year . the write ministerial statement issue in the Prime Minister ' s name yesterday clearly set out the division between the role . I look forward to lead from the Cabinet Office on the cross - Department and cross - Whitehall UK - EU reset . of course , the fcdo will continue to deliver the diplomacy across Europe that be vital to that . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that answer , but many in the House and in the public at large will be curious as to what plan he will develop in term of trade - off between any change he seek to make on behalf of the Government with the EU . for the sake of clarity and transparency , will he describe how he expect to evaluate the benefit of any change and how his Prime Minister ' s commitment to respect the referendum outcome will be meaningfully adhere to through the process ? when do he expect to make a statement to the House on his progress ? the Government ' s approach be set out in the labour manifesto that be endorse overwhelmingly at the general election . we will not rejoin the European Union , we will not return to freedom of movement , and we will not rejoin the custom union or the single market . what we will do be advance a reset in the relationship , and our test for that be for our european continent — the UK and the EU together — to be more secure , safe and more prosperous . that be what be in our national interest . it be in the EU ' s interest as well . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . may I welcome the new Minister and indeed the whole team to the Front Bench ? I be sure that the Minister will agree that his most important role may be in repair that break relationship with the European Union for our security , for our defence and , most importantly , for our economy . give the new Prime Minister ' s focus on mission - drive Government , and with our recent return to Horizon Europe , what discussion do he have — or will he have — about extend the youth mobility scheme to the European Union ? that would give thousand of young people the chance to live , work and study abroad and increase our cultural and economic link with Europe again . the Government have be clear that we will not be return to freedom of movement , but clearly we want economic and cultural tie to be far close than they be at the moment — indeed , close than they be under the previous Government . that be in the interest of the UK and in the interest of the EU . on the economic side , the Government have already set out their objective of a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement to achieve mutual recognition of professional qualification to help our excellent service sector , as well as to ease the position for our travel musician around Europe , which be hugely important to our cultural soft power . Government Departments and Agencies : facility Management Services whether he plan to increase the number of facility management service that be insource within Government Departments and agency . whether he plan to increase the number of facility management service that be insource within Government Departments and agency . the Government will always aim to secure value for money in meet their facility management requirement . our plan to make work pay be clear that we will call time on the previous Government ' s ideological approach to outsourcing and ensure that decision be base on robust assessment of value for money , service quality , social value and , crucially , deliver the good outcome . I thank the Minister very much for her response and I welcome the whole team to the Front Bench . the problem with outsourcing be that , normally , the outsourcer will drive down pay and condition for the workforce , thereby create a two - tier workforce ; they be not properly accountable to Ministers ; they be exempt from freedom of information request ; and finally , there be the question of public service centre . will the Minister confirm that we will proceed with abandon the previous Government ' s ideological obsession with outsourcing ? my hon . friend be right that too many decision about outsourcing be ideologically drive under the previous Government , without consideration for thing such as social value or service quality . that be why we have say that we will do thing differently . social value and outcome will be at the heart of that . our new deal for work people will transform the world of work . the outsourcing of facility management service role such as cleaning , catering and security have disproportionately impact woman and black worker , who have suffer a reduction in their pay , term and condition . the Government have promise to bring about the big wave of insourcing of public service in a generation . with that in mind , will the Minister agree to examine the benefit of insource facility management service , particularly with regard to performance and tackle discriminatory outcome on pay ? will she meet representative of the Public and Commercial Services Union to discuss this matter far ? my hon . friend be right that under the previous Government , too many job such as cleaning and security be insecure , with a race to the bottom on standard and pay . our plan to make work pay will ensure that all job be secure , fulfil and well - pay . my hon . Friend also mention the disproportionate impact on ethnic minority and woman ; that be why we say in the King ' s Speech that we would introduce an equality Bill to enshrine in law the right to equal pay for ethnic minority and disabled people , and introduce mandatory ethnicity and disability pay reporting . government Departments : Digital Technologies what step he be take to increase the use of digital technology by Government Departments . what step he be take to increase the use of digital technology by Government Departments . Digital technology will be vital to the delivery of the Government ' s mission and to effective public service . yesterday , the Prime Minister announce the move of the Government Digital Service ' s central digital and data office and the incubator for artificial intelligence from the Cabinet Office to the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . the Treasury and the Cabinet Office will work closely with DSIT on this . create a strong digital centre of Government be intend to help drive forward innovation and ensure a well experience for the citizen who use Government service . I welcome the entire ministerial team to their place . the UK have the chance to become a world leader in bring new technology into the heart of Government . the concept of a mission - lead Government provide a unique opportunity to do exactly that . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that digital technology be use to support the Government ' s mission , to deliver for my constituent in Northampton North and across the country ? my hon . friend be right that the UK have the potential to be a leader in this area . it be all about secure both value for money for the taxpayer and the well possible citizen experience for user of public service . it be with that in mind that we be create a strong digital centre of Government . the DSIT Secretary be in the drive seat , work closely with the Cabinet Office and the Treasury to try to achieve those twin aim . despite significant spending of taxpayer cash , as in so many thing , public sector productivity get bad under the last government . when I work in artificial intelligence , it be clear that so many of the barrier to harness technology be specific , granular and often not glamorous , such as share datum well across organisation . have the Minister assess how digital technology can be use to increase productivity in the public sector and improve public service ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and let I take this opportunity to thank the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) for the work he do on public sector productivity . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I suspect we be only in the foothill of the potential here . that be why we have create this strong digital centre of Government . we want to ensure good value for money and to use tech to improve the citizen ' experience . the real challenge here be to reform public service to match the constant innovation that people experience in other part of their life . we can not have a world where that innovation be experience in the private sphere , but be not apply and properly maximise in the public sphere , so that be what we want to do . Ethics and Integrity Commission what progress the Government have make on establish an ethic and integrity commission . it be important to restore confidence in Government and public life , and to ensure the good possible standard . this be an important manifesto commitment . we will establish a new independent ethic and integrity commission , with its own independent chair , to ensure the high possible standard . work have begin on that , and I will keep the House up to date as it develop . I thank my right hon . friend for his response and welcome all the team to their place . will he expand a little bit more on exactly what the term of reference might include ? for example , will they also include participative and deliberative democracy method that might also help to restore trust in politic , which , as he know , be at an all - time low ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . I will certainly keep she up to date with this as it go . in truth , this be always go to be about " show , not tell " . we will set up the good system that we can with the new commission . on that front , the Leader of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) be take immediate action to tighten the exist prohibition on mps provide pay parliamentary advice . the House will be debate that later today . we be also set up a modernisation committee . so , on several front we want to get the right system in place , but in the end it be a matter of show , not tell . public procurement : value for Money what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure value for money in public procurement . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure value for money in public procurement . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure value for money in public procurement . the Government believe that public procurement be a key lever for enable the delivery of our mission . effective procurement will allow the public sector to deliver well service for citizen . our ambitious programme to make work pay will drive genuine value for money in procurement , and support organisation to create local job , skill and wealth . the new digital centre of Government will ensure procurement drive uptake of new digital technology to improve our public service . I thank the Minister for her answer . as she say , value for money be fundamental , but procurement can also be use strategically to ensure that growth opportunity and social benefit be feel across the country . what step will the Government take to up the ambition in the implementation of the Procurement Act 2023 , so we have the datum , skill and digital tool to drive a more mission - drive and economically transformative commissioning and purchase across the Government ? as my hon . Friend say , public procurement be a key lever for deliver improve standard in business and in achieve social value . it be one of the lever in make sure we be grow our economy and support good job , something I see in local government where Labour council make huge stride in deliver social value through procurement . the Government ' s plan to make work pay set out that ambitious programme to value organisation that create local job , skill and wealth , and treat their worker well and equally . I join colleague in welcome the ministerial team to the Front Bench . the Government have make it clear that tackle waste in public procurement be a priority and that crony relationship will no long define the awarding of contract . can the Minister reassure I and my constituent in Bolton North East that contract will be award base on what be most cost - effective and on what be well for the public purse ? the Government have launch a fraud commissioner , whose role will be to look at what go wrong and make sure that we be learn those lesson . the vip lane and the issue that we see previously can not happen again . the new digital centre of Government , work closely with the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , will ensure that procurement and market engagement be use as effective tool to drive the uptake of new digital technology and protect we against the kind of thing that we see previously . as an NHS physiotherapist who work during the covid - 19 pandemic , I have the misfortune of witness at first hand how crony contract result in waste resource . although those contract may have be intend to reinforce the NHS during the unprecedented crisis , they do a disservice both to our NHS professional and to patient . will the Minister outline what tangible step the Government be take to avoid such a waste of resource in future and reassure the constituency of Dudley and the wide nation that the Government will take public spending seriously ? I thank my hon . friend for her service during covid , and I thank all the health and care staff who risk their life to protect we . billion be spend on personal protective equipment that be unusable , overpriced or under - deliver . this Government be determined to learn those lesson and safeguard every pound of taxpayer ' money . I have meet the Public Sector Fraud Authority and have set out our commitment to drive down fraud across Government . we be determined to learn the lesson from the work of the covid commissioner , who will report to Parliament . I offer a warm welcome to the ministerial team . constituent across Glastonbury and Somerton tell I that quality matter to they as much as value for money . do the Minister agree that we must ensure that public procurement consider environmental and social factor as well as value for money ? value for money be critical to this Government . we want to make sure that every pound of taxpayer ' money be spend wisely . we be inherit a perilous economic situation , and we need to invest in public service , but we also need to deliver social value , which include workforce standard and environmental standard . that be how we deliver good growth . propriety in Public Life what step he be take to help ensure high standard of propriety in public life . what step he be take to help ensure high standard of propriety in public life . the sleaze of the previous Government erode trust in politic and the public ' s belief in our political system . the Prime Minister ' s commitment to uphold the high standard of integrity in public life be clear . he meet the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest on his first day in office . this Government be commit to ensure high standard , include by establish an ethic and integrity commission , reform the business appointment rule and appropriately empower the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest . just 49 % of people in my constituency of West Bromwich vote in the recent election . that come as no surprise to I , because I have conversation after conversation with people who have lose trust in politician because of the previous Government ' s rule breaking and scandal . what step be the new Labour Government take to restore trust and ensure that politic can once again be a force for good ? this government will restore trust in politic by deliver for the public . as I have indicate , the Cabinet Office will support the development of a new ethic and integrity commission to deliver a much - need reset on standard in public life . we will also review and update post - government employment rule and support the Prime Minister as he issue a new ministerial code and grant the independent adviser the power and support that he need . polling before the last general election find that two third of the british public do not think that the then Government have observe high ethical standard , which probably account for the disillusionment with politic that we see on the doorstep . it be therefore essential that the new Government now work to restore trust in politic and to put public service rather than self - service at the heart of everything that they do . how will the Minister ensure that ministerial standard be uphold , and how will he ensure that the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest have the power to crack down on misconduct ? my hon . friend be entirely right : the last Government preside over appal fall standard , which be why the Prime Minister be insist that this be a Government of service to the public . the Labour party manifesto commit the Government to give the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest the power to initiate investigation of misconduct , but also to ensure that the adviser have access to the evidence that he or she need , and those change will be introduce in due course . whistleblower in the Civil Service what step he be take to protect whistleblower in the civil service . the Cabinet Office provide a framework to support Departments and employee , which include signpost on how to raise a concern , channel enable that to be do safely , and practical support for whistleblower . the Cabinet Office be work to capture whistleblower ' experience and way in which to improve it , and , as be mention in the King ' s Speech , we will be introduce a duty of candour Bill which will improve transparency and accountability . good whistleblowing be good for government . last year the National Audit Office publish a report say that the Government must do more to address governmental failure , and , even more worrying , that 50 % of civil servant feel that it be not safe to challenge the way in which thing be be do , and feel that their concern be not be listen to or , indeed , that they will face negative consequence if they speak out . will the Government establish a new office of whistleblower to create new legal right , and also to promote great public awareness of whistleblower ' right ? as you say , whistleblowe be critical . we have have a discussion today about fraud and about the problem that emerge when we do not have protection in place . we be absolutely committed to support whistleblower , and we be look into the statistic that you mention and what be cause those problem . we will continue to do that , because it be very high on our agenda . National Resilience what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . this Government recognise the importance of long - term , sustainable resilience , which be why the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will chair a dedicated Cabinet Committee on the subject . in response to the " UK Covid - 19 Inquiry : resilience and preparedness ( Module 1 ) " report , the Government commit themselves to consider all its finding and recommendation , and announce that we would carefully review our strategic approach to improve resilience and preparation across central Government , local authority , community such as my hon . friend ' s , and the emergency service . I warmly welcome the Minister to her position . I also thank all the key worker in the NHS who have keep we safe during covid . when it come to national resilience , they be the people we should be think of , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for what she have do in that regard . staff at Derriford hospital in Plymouth face extremely difficult circumstance during the covid crisis , and the covid inquiry have find that this country be not adequately prepared . what step will the Minister take to ensure that if we have another pandemic in this country , key worker in place such as Plymouth be not put under that stress again ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and thank he for his early public service in the Royal Marines . I agree with the point that he have raise , and I , too , thank the key worker for all that they do to support and protect we during the pandemic . the Government will certainly ensure that lesson be learn from the inquiry and the response to the pandemic , and we will take the necessary time to consider the inquiry ' s report and assess our resilience in respect of the full range of risk that the United Kingdom face . last week the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster announce that he would chair a committee for resilience , which will improve our health sector , increase public trust in the Government and kick - start our economic growth , as well as improve resilience across the UK . resilience be incredibly important for our country , and it be key to ensure that people in government be work towards that . the last Government mandate that every civil servant have to be in the office for at least three day a week , move back from what we see during the covid pandemic . what will the Government do to ensure that our entire civil service workforce be on the frontline and work closely together to ensure that national resilience be embed across our public sector ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . as I say , it be important that , as a Government , we work strongly together across the UK . as the Prime Minister mention on day one , he will be work with his devolved Government counterpart , and he have announce a Council of the Nations and Regions . that will include our work across all civil service department to make sure that we learn from the lesson of the past . Cross - Government Working what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to improve cross - government work . the commitment to a mission - lead Government set out a new approach to govern that be focus on the outcome that will make a meaningful difference to people ' s life . it mean a new way of do government that be more join - up , break down silos and push power out to community . early this week , the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster sit as deputy chair on the first mission board on growth , chair by the Chancellor . as part of our plan to deliver mission - base government , we will hold further mission board as we approach the summer recess . I thank my hon . friend for her reply . early this month , the Prime Minister announce that he would personally chair new mission delivery board to ensure that Labour ' s key manifesto pledge be implement . but if we want to deliver our manifesto pledge effectively , we be go to need effective communication between central Government and devolve body . could my hon . friend tell I what step be be take to ensure that devolve government be involve in the new Government ' s mission delivery process ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and he be right to point out that we have start to deliver on our promise . for example , the Chancellor launch our national wealth fund just this week . he be also right to say how important it be that we work with the devolve government to deliver mission . the Government have set out our intention to work closely with Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , as well as metro mayor and local council leader in England , to deliver the mission . one of the Prime Minister ' s first action be to meet all the First Ministers on his tour of the UK . we know that meaningful co - operation will be key to deliver change across the entire United Kingdom . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . my Department have begin its work on help the Government to deliver on our manifesto , and we be focus on the first step and mission that we speak about during the election campaign . we will play our full part in drive forward the announcement make by the Government , such as establish a national wealth fund , lift the ban on onshore wind , and begin the change need to get Britain build again . we have also respond to the first module of the covid report publish last week , and the Minister without Portfolio , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) , make a statement on the IT outage , which expose the fragility of the system we all rely on . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his response . give that it be the Department ' s responsibility to investigate waste , will it also investigate the impact ? my inquiry have reveal that £ 242 million of taxpayer ' money be spend on covid aid that be hand out to holiday home owner in Cornwall during that period , whereas only a fraction of that amount have be give to support those who be desperately in need of affordable home , with many local be displace by the massive growth of holiday home in the area . will the government please investigate the impact — be it positive or negative — of spend that kind of public money ? I assure the hon . member that we take value for money seriously ; it have be a theme of today ' s question . the Government support business during covid — necessarily and rightly — but it be important to ensure the good value for money in such scheme . in the end , it be all taxpayer ' money , so that should have be do . where that be not the case , and where there have be fraud or waste , we will do our good to recover what be wrongly spend . can we pick up the pace of question and answer ? we be on topical now . Rachel Hopkins will set a good example . small business be the lifeblood of our high street and community , and they create local wealth and opportunity across Luton South and South Bedfordshire . they play a vital role in provide social value by distribute growth locally , meet environmental target and develop social wellbeing . do the Minister agree that it be essential to put social value at the heart of the Government ' s growth agenda ? growth be a central mission of the Government . we want to use all the lever available to we , include procurement , to support good growth , job and local community . I call the shadow Minister . I begin by welcome the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster to his position . I know that he will be support by a brilliant team of civil servant who be truly dedicated to public service . as we see in module 1 of the covid inquiry report last week , biological threat pose potentially catastrophic risk to our nation , and those risk will be exacerbate by long - term trend such as climate change . to help to prepare we , I publish the UK biological security strategy . will he take the opportunity to recommit to its objective and to provide an annual update to the House on its implementation ? I welcome the right hon . member to his position . I mean that genuinely : it be not easy to step up and serve in opposition after an election defeat , so I welcome what he and his colleague be do . I echo his praise for the civil service and the Cabinet Office team , who have support I and my colleague in the good way in the past few week . on the UK biological security strategy , my answer be simple and short : yes . let we keep go in that way . I welcome that answer and I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind word . an effective strategy must be underpin by dedicated resource , which be why one of my final act in the Cabinet Office be to announce that we would ringfence biological security spending across Government . will he uphold that commitment , so that important resilience spending do not fall victim to day - to - day spending pressure ? if the right hon . member set aside spending for his commitment , he do something pretty rare for the last Government . when we look under the bonnet , we find that that be not often the case . we will have more to say about that in the come day . I welcome the Front - Bench team to their role . the people of Hemel Hempstead put their trust in I because they want change , particularly on issue such as healthcare , on which the last Government fail to deliver . can the Minister update the House on the change that the Government be plan to make for my constituent and constituent around the country ? we be get on with our first step , include on healthcare , which be a top priority for my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . we want to make the NHS fit for the future . we do it before and we can do it again . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . this summer , we have be celebrate 25 year of devolution in Scotland . in the last Parliament , the Scottish Affairs Committee look at how the relationship between the UK and Scottish Governments have deteriorate in the past decade and how we can improve it . do the Minister agree that in the next tranche of devolution , we should look at how to improve relationship with the devolved Administrations and regional authority ? perhaps we should set up a UK council of Ministers to involve Ministers from all the Administrations and regional mayor . we intend to set up a council of nation and region . the hon . member be right to say that we need to improve relation . that be easy say than do because such organisation be run by political party , but I hope that the election result , in all its facet , represent the opportunity for a bit of a reset and well relation in future . in just over a month , phase 2 of the Grenfell inquiry will report . there will be implication for the entire government , but what preparation have be make ahead of the report ' s publication ? will the Minister commit to engage with the bereaved , survivor and the affected community before the Government respond in full to the recommendation ? I thank my hon . friend for the question ; I know that the issue be close to his heart , as it be to mine . the publication of the report will mark an important milestone for the Grenfell community , and Parliament will have the opportunity to provide the full and proper scrutiny that the issue deserve . as my hon . Friend say , it be important that bereaved family be also part of that process , and we will work closely with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that all those resident be part of it . the Government will do everything possible to drive the change to ensure that lesson be learn and that a tragedy such as the Grenfell Tower fire can never happen again . in 2005 , the tax gap be 7 . 4 % ; in 2022 - 23 , the previous Government cut it down to 4 . 8 % be there a cross - government mission or target to close the tax gap far ? we will do everything we can to collect the great amount of tax possible — that be right . we be interested in value for money and , give the legacy that we have inherit , I assure the right hon . member that that be need . during the pandemic , my request to the then Government to source personal protective equipment from local , UK manufacturer be largely ignore . will the Minister insist that any covid corruption commissioner listen to company such as Tecman and Comtest in my constituency about what happen at that time ? all lesson should be learn about the procurement pressure at that time , include the lesson that my hon . Friend mention . we hear at the covid inquiry that Cabinet Office structure be not design to manage a whole - of - Government crisis . what might the Government change to well prepare for the next emergency ? the great danger be prepare perfectly for the last war . the real challenge in resilience be look around the corner for thing that have not already happen . as we respond to the covid pandemic , it be important to keep that in mind , and we will try to do that . the covid - 19 pandemic devastate family in West Bromwich . in our borough of Sandwell , 1 , 476 people lose their life . now the covid inquiry be expose just how poorly prepared we be and that insufficient thought be give to how the pandemic would affect ethnic minority and deprived community . what will the Government do to work with local government and across the board to ensure that we be well prepared in future ? the Government recognise that the pandemic have a disproportionate impact on vulnerable group and minority community and that it will continue to affect many people . it be essential that we review the way we prepare for future emergency to minimise disproportionate impact . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will chair a dedicated Cabinet Committee on resilience to oversee the work of assess and improve our national resilience . we be put people at the centre of the Government ' s mission and we will learn the lesson of covid - 19 . on behalf of the 12 % of people in my constituency who have serve in the armed force , I ask the Cabinet Secretary to explain why he be not join by a veteran Minister on the Front Bench this morning . that be because responsibility for veteran be be transfer to the Ministry of Defence , which be a well home for it . look after our veteran will be a big priority in the Ministry of Defence . in recent year , rural part of my constituency be leave without power for a week follow storm Arwen , and , during covid , child in upland area be unable to access school due to poor connectivity . do the Minister agree that resilience require take into account the energy and connectivity need of area such as Teesdale and Weardale ? first , let I thank my hon . friend and his family for walk across the country to raise awareness of child poverty during the pandemic . the Government recognise the disruption to education cause by the pandemic and the different access to online learning and it equipment . we be commit to learn lesson from the past and make improvement for the future . in the immediate term , the Government have invest in deliver nationwide gigabit connectivity as soon as possible . we be invest £ 5 billion as part of this project to ensure that the hard - to - reach area across the UK , such as my hon . friend ' s constituency , receive coverage . far to the question of the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , do the Minister hold any statistic on how many individual be due infect blood compensation in Northern Ireland and how many have be award it ? I be happy for the Minister to send I the stat if he do not have they to hand . I be grateful to the hon . member for that question . I do not have the specific figure for Northern Ireland to hand , but if he write to I I would be only too delighted to provide they to he . the CrowdStrike outage this week show how reliant we be on digital infrastructure . what will the Minister do to reassure people in Newcastle - under - Lyme that Britain will be resilient against cyber - attack and hostile action from those who wish to do we harm ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I make a statement on the CrowdStrike IT outage in this House on Monday . there will be a lesson - learn process as a result of that , and also a Bill go before Parliament to ensure that we be resilient in relation to our cyber - security . that will strengthen our defence and ensure that more digital service than ever be protect . I call Cat Eccles for the final question . a constituent of mine be currently go through the process of adopt a little boy . she and her husband have one daughter already , conceive follow several round of IVF , but , sadly , that have since be unsuccessful for they and they have choose to adopt one of the many look - after child look for a love home . my constituent run a local business — a haberdashery and sewing workshop — that be extremely popular with local people , but in order to integrate the little boy into her family , she have take time away from her business to be with he at home . she have since discover that she be not entitle to statutory adoption pay as a self - employ person and will have to take this time off unpaid . when adopt child from care , there be a really small window of opportunity to successfully integrate the child with minimal disruption . cost to local authority for look - after child be rise . would you agree that extend adoption pay to self - employ people in line with maternity pay would provide well outcome for look - after child ? order . we be all on a learning curve , but we do need to ask short , punchy question . also , " you " mean I , but I be sure that we will not be do that again . on this , perhaps the simple thing be for my hon . friend to write to I , so that I can get her question consider by the proper Minister . that complete question . before we move to the business question , I shall let those on the front Benches leave . business of the House will the Leader of the House provide an update on forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 29 July will include : Monday 29 July — Second reading of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . Tuesday 30 July — Second reading of the Budget Responsibility Bill . the House will rise for the summer recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 30 July and return on Monday 2 September . the business for the week commence 2 September will include : Monday 2 September — general debate . subject to be confirm . Tuesday 3 September — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . Wednesday 4 September — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Budget Responsibility Bill . Thursday 5 September — second reading of the great british Energy Bill . Friday 6 September — the House will not be sit . Lieutenant Colonel Mark Teeton be brutally stab in Gillingham near the Brompton barrack a few day ago . I know that he will be in the thought of all member , and will have our good wish for a speedy recovery . I extend my thank to long - serve Doorkeeper John Tamlyn , who have serve this House for 36 year — four time long than I have be a Member of this House . he have witness many memorable scene over the year , and by my calculation have see no few than 10 Prime Ministers come and go — well , nine come and go , and one arrive , but I be optimistic that between now and next Tuesday he may make it 10 come and go . I be sure that the whole House will wish John well in his retirement after so many year of distinguished service . thank you . we do not have a timetable for the election of Select Committees and other Committees . I know that Select Committees can sometimes be troubling for the Government ; during my five year as a Minister I be gently roast — sometimes violently flamb é ed — by many Select Committees . you ' re welcome ! I thank my hon . friend for that . it be , however , important that we have Select Committees in place so that Back bencher can hold the Government to account . if that be not temptation enough for the Leader of the House , let I say this : if her Back Benchers have Select Committees to serve on , they may have less time to plot rebellion . will she confirm that all Select Committee Chairmen and member will be elect in September — and if not in September , when ? many member have express concern about the resumption of UK taxpayer funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . UNRWA stand accuse of many appalling act , include run school use antisemitic textbook encourage violence , the document involvement of at least 10 UNRWA member in the 7 October massacre , and close link between UNRWA staff and the Hamas terrorist organisation . will the Leader of the House urgently arrange a debate on this decision in Government time , and can she guarantee that no taxpayer money will support , directly or indirectly , Hamas or any activity that encourage or facilitate terror ? the Government have send mixed message about plan to scrap the very reasonable two - child cap on welfare payment . then , on Tuesday , the Government whip their mp to vote against scrap it . there be a significant Back - Bench rebellion , less than three week after the election — not even Theresa May manage a rebellion within three week of an election , so it be a bit of a first . at this rate , the Government ' s majority will be go by about Easter of next year . [ interruption . ] look , I be always happy to debate these issue . the Leader of the House and the Government will actually have my support on this issue — she may not want it or welcome it , but she will have it anyway — so can we have that debate , not least so that her own parliamentary party and Back Benchers can properly discuss this important issue ? I understand that next week the Chancellor may make a statement on the public finance . do the Leader of the House agree with what the Chancellor say during the election : that a party do not need to be in government to open the book because of the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast ? will the Government commit that any statement about public finance make in this House will be accompany by an OBR forecast , since we can see from next week ' s business that the Government be so keen to enshrine OBR forecast far in law ? it seem clear to I that we may be present next week with concocted and exaggerated claim about the public finance as a pretext for tax rise , so can the Leader of the House commit that the election promise that Government Members make — that there would be no tax rise beyond those in the labour manifesto — will be honour in full ? finally , the Government recently announce the closure of the Bibby Stockholm barge . will the Government update the House on where those people will now be accommodate and at what cost ? I also notice that the Government have rebrande illegal immigration as " irregular " , and have say that they merely want to control it . I say to they that enter this country by small boat be illegal ; it may help they to refer to section 74 of the Immigration Act 1971 , as amend , if they be in any doubt . the Government ' s objective should be to stop illegal immigration completely , not merely to control it , so will the Leader of the House organise a debate in Government time on that ? that debate could cover what the Government plan to do in place of the Rwanda scheme that they have just scrap . the first flight have be due to take off yesterday , 24 July , but the Government choose to cancel it . the deterrent effect that that flight would have have would have lead to a cessation of channel crossing , as all the precedent in Australia and elsewhere have demonstrate . we see it here with the albanian cohort last year as well . the Government needlessly cancel what would have be an effective deterrent measure . will the Government allow a vote on that policy ? I thank the shadow Leader of the House and join he in pay our respect to those affect by the brutal attack in Kent this week . in our last business question before the summer recess , Mr Speaker , I want to put on record my thank to you , House staff , security staff and other for all your hard work in recent week , and I wish you all some kind of holiday over that recess . I also congratulate our new Deputy Speakers ; they be break more glass ceiling with an all - female line - up that be the most diverse in our history . on the same theme , I also send congratulation to Baroness Eluned Morgan , who be set to become Wales ' s first female First Minister — that be a lot of first . finally , I put on record my thank to the wonderful John Tamlyn , one of our fantastic Doorkeepers , who be retire after 36 year of service . the shadow Leader of the House mention the number of Prime Ministers under which John serve , but I think most of those come in the last few year of his time . as he say to I early , the last few year go a lot fast than the early one . I also want to address the truly shocking footage we have see of an incident at Manchester airport . it be right of the Greater Manchester police force to refer itself to the Independent Office for Police Conduct , give the widespread concern about the incident . this week we have hear many maiden speech . there have be a lot of demand , shall we say , but it have be good to see the enthusiasm of many colleague from across these Benches . those speech have tell the story of our nation , of people and place strive to get on , and look after and look out for each other ; but I be not sure that I can agree that every other constituency be the good in the country , because of course we all know that the good be actually Manchester Central . this have be a special week for we on the Government side of the House . after long year in opposition , we have finally be able to win some vote in support of our ambitious , bold , fully cost King ' s Speech programme . it be one to be proud of . it be the opportunity and responsibility of government make real . the shadow Leader of the House ask about the election of Select Committee Chairs . he will know that negotiation be ongoing between the usual channel about how those Chairs will be allocate . once those be complete , we hope to have the election as soon as possible . as we end our third week in government , it be clear than ever before that the Conservatives fail in their responsibility and leave the country in state beyond our bad fear . they do not like to hear it , but they fail to take the tough and right choice . it be as if they know that they be go to lose the election and leave the really difficult decision for we . they do not like it , but history will show it . that be not just my view . the National Audit Office find that the NHS have be leave in an " unprecedented " crisis . the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that we face " some of the tough choice in generation " . the previous Government ' s own Justice Secretary admit that they ignore prison run at 99 % capacity because it would cost they vote to take action , so I be afraid that I will not be take the shadow Leader of the House ' s advice on the issue that he raise . the shadow Leader of the House talk about redefine illegal migration . I remember the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , redefine the backlog under the last government as a " queue . " far from be stop , boat have be come over in record number over the past year , so the Conservatives ' plan just be not work . that be why we have already reallocate resource and start return illegal migrant , which his government fail to do . the shadow Leader of the House will know that , yes , we be take action to ensure that all fiscal statement have Office for Budget Responsibility oversight . I be not sure whether his party will support that next week . the Conservatives have their chance to govern , and they leave the country in a much bad state than they find it . they do not fix the roof while the sun be shine ; in fact , their whole house be build on sand . we have be leave the job of rebuild from the bottom up , on shaky foundation , with most of the material go and the workforce deplete and demoralise , but we be get on with the job , and there be more to come in coming day . Manifesto commitment realise today will turn the page on an era of sleaze and scandal . our first Bills , to be consider next week , will bring our railway back into public ownership — put passenger first , not profit — and will protect our economy and family finance from Conservative Trussonomics , of which the shadow Leader of the House be an author . we will legislate for great British Energy when Parliament return , deliver energy security and low bill . what a contrast with the die day of the last Government . if he will forgive I , I will not be take his advice ; I will continue realise the change that the country be cry out for . the footage of a Greater Manchester police officer stamp on and kick a man in Manchester airport be truly shocking and disturbing . that man be one of my rochdale constituent , and I be meet his family later today . our police face a difficult job every day to keep we all safe , but they know that they be expect to demonstrate the high standard of conduct in their duty . will the Leader of the House make time for member to discuss the important issue of police conduct ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . as I say , the footage be incredibly disturbing , and there be understandably a lot of concern , particularly in his constituency , give that his constituent be affect . Greater Manchester police have say that the officer involve be immediately suspend from all duty , and a referral have now be make to the Independent Office for Police Conduct . I will ensure that the Home Secretary have hear my hon . friend ' s question and be in touch with he at the early opportunity to discuss the matter far . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I be pleased to see that the Leader of the House have survive the first rebellion of the new Parliament . her government should take advice from one of my Bath constituency ' s most famous resident , Mary Shelley , and her creation , Frankenstein ' s monster : " beware ; for I be fearless , and therefore powerful . " I expect the Prime Minister hope that the new group of independent MPs he have create will not become such a monster . scrap the two - child benefit cap would lift around 250 , 000 child out of poverty . as child poverty be one of the main driver of mental illness , it be no surprise that young people ' s mental health service be now at break point . More than a quarter of a million young people be still wait for support after be refer to child and adolescent mental health service in 2022 - 23 . one of my constituent , who struggle with an eat disorder , have experience two relapse , which they attribute to severely limited CAMHS resource in their time of need . the Liberal Democrats want to ensure that when budget be tight , support for child and young people ' s mental health be not push aside . before it be too late , may we have a debate in Government time on the inadequacy of child and adolescent mental health service ? I also wish the wonderful John Tamlyn all the good in his retirement . let I be absolutely clear : we on the Labour Benches be incredibly proud of the programme lay out by his Majesty in the King ' s Speech last week . by any measure , it be one of the most bold and ambitious programme of any incoming government — tackle the challenge that the country face , deliver on our manifesto commitment , ensure that our mission - lead Government bring about the change that the country want , and bring back a Government of service . it be absolutely right that member elect on a manifesto to bring in that King ' s Speech should vote for it in overwhelming number , as they do in Parliament this week . I be incredibly proud of the huge number of people who support that King ' s Speech programme . the issue of child poverty have be raise a number of time in recent week . this Labour Government , like any Labour Government , be absolutely committed to tackle child poverty — not just its symptom , but its root cause — whether through early education , housing support , or the sure Start programme and other such measure . that be why we have establish a cross - cut Government taskforce to look at all of those issue , and we will come back regularly to this House to report on its progress . many of we enjoy watch the Euros in our local pub , whose licensing hour be only just extend before this House rise for the general election . my private Member ' s Bill would have ensure that extension for event of national importance would no long be dependent on Parliament sit . that Bill pass through this place with zero objection , but fail to make the wash - up . I know that my right hon . friend like sport and a good pint , so will she make time for my Bill to become law ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . actually , as she will know , I have become quite a lightweight — I be more of a spritzer girl than a full pint girl these day — but I know her Bill be meet with wide support in the last Parliament . the private Member ' s Bill ballot will be come up straight after recess , and I hope she secure a spot in it ; if she do not , I be happy to talk to she about how we can take some of these matter forward in our future legislative programme . I welcome the Leader of the House to her place . this week , she will have notice that we be celebrate county flag ; Parliament Square be wonderfully decorate with the flag of the historic county from across these island . will she commit the Government to continue that tradition , and work to enhance and cherish the culture of our magnificent historic county across our United Kingdom ? the hon . Gentleman make a really important point . the sense of identity that many people get from the county that they come from should continue to be celebrate and nourish . I be sure that as long as we have this Speaker , who be a great lancastrian and very much of his county , we in this House will continue to celebrate the great contribution that our county make . coastal community such as mine in East Thanet have be let down for far too long , with poor public service and a lack of infrastructure . that be make even bad by a shortage of high - quality , well - pay job . on top of that , one of those community ' big asset — the sea and its environment — have be trash as a consequence of Tory neglect and chaos , make sustainable economic recovery even hard . however , that have not deter my constituent across Margate , Broadstairs and Ramsgate from channel their energy into enterprise in hospitality and tourism , as well as in the vital creative industry . will my right hon . friend arrange for we to have a debate in this House about the way that this Government ' s regional growth strategy will address the long - term challenge and opportunity for our coastal community , with special consideration of how the visual and perform art can drive economic — order . business question will be cut off at about 11 . 45 am . if we be to get it run , we will have to help each other by try to ask short question . I be sure that the Leader of the House will assist with quick answer . I thank my hon . friend for that great question . give all the new member in the House who represent coastal town , I be sure that the important contribution of those area would make a really good topic for an Adjournment or Westminster Hall debate after recess . Iran represent the big threat to peace in the middle east . it control the Houthis , who attack british shipping ; Hamas , who have cause the war in Gaza ; and Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah . when they be in opposition , the Government promise that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps would be proscribe in its entirety , and its asset sequestrate and use for the benefit of the iranian people . that be also the settle will of this House , so will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate in Government time to ensure that it become the policy of this new Administration , and that we get on with that job , which would be welcome across the world ? the hon . member be right ; we raise these issue a number of time when in opposition . the Foreign Secretary have recently update the House on a number of issue , and I know he plan to continue to do so . I will ensure that he have hear what the hon . Member have say today and provide some answer on that important point . Resolven , a small community in my constituency with a massive heart , be today fill with pride for Dan Jervis , part of the GB swim team . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate not just Dan , but all our GB contestant at the Paris Olympics ? they fill we with pride and joy , so will she join I in congratulate they all ? I strongly support what my hon . friend have say . we all wish Team GB the very good in the forthcoming Olympics in Paris , particularly Dan and the rest of the swimming team . we wish all our compete athlete all the very good . when in opposition , the present Administration make some effort to criticise the then Conservative Government ' s record on animal welfare . the King ' s Speech , of which the right hon . Lady indicate she be so proud , contain not one word relate to animal welfare . be that a deliberate omission , or a careless and uninterested oversight , and when might we have a Bill to outlaw the proceed of trophy hunting ? I be glad to answer that question . the right hon . Member will be aware that outlaw trophy hunting be absolutely in our manifesto , which we have be resoundingly elect to deliver . we have set out our king ' s Speech for this first session ; it be not for the whole Parliament . give how much we need to do , we have have to prioritise what we be do in this session , especially to deliver on our mission and those first step we promise the country we would deliver , but I be sure that will come forward in due course . St Bartholomew ' s church in Newbiggin - by - the - Sea in my constituency be a grade I list building . it be a beautiful church , but it be in serious danger of slide into the North sea because of coastal erosion . sadly , the last Government allow funding for sea defence only to protect residential property . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss how to change that rule before this lovely church and some of its former resident slide into the North sea ? I be sorry to hear about that historic church in my hon . friend ' s constituency . he be right that coastal erosion be one of the key challenge that his community and many other face , and it be one of the issue that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be prioritise in his work on the flood resilience taskforce and on coastal community resilience , so I will ensure that my hon . friend ' s comment have be hear and that he get a full reply . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be trumpet that 76 % of the electorate be right behind GB Energy , and why would they not be ? why would they not want a state - own energy company such as Ø rste , Vattenfall or Equinor deliver for people across these island ? but it be not that , be it ? it be a cynical , snake oil exercise to gift - wrap a Department that already exist , and it will not deliver energy across these island at all . can we have a debate in Government time about why GB Energy be nothing short of smoke and mirror ? I strongly disagree with the hon . member ' s question . great British Energy be not only very popular , but very popular for a reason . it will transform our ability to produce clean energy , which be much need in this country , so that we be no long reliant on import fossil fuel , which be subject to global energy spike , as we have see . we be lead a transformation to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 , and great British Energy be absolutely core to deliver that mission . he will be aware that there will be a debate on this issue tomorrow . we will have the second reading of the Bill when we return , when I be sure he will hear how wrong his conclusion on great British Energy be . in the past month , two man in my constituency have take their own life . both have family , both be well known and respected figure in their community , and both will be sorely miss . will my right hon . friend guarantee a debate on mental health service for man , and on how the NHS can work with local group such as those in my community , Andy ' s Man Club in Maltby , the Learning Community in Dinnington , and Better together in Kiveton Park ? sadly , man be three time more likely to die from suicide than woman , and it be a great killer of young man in this country . that be why such a big chunk of the King ' s Speech be about tackle mental health , include modernisation of the Mental Health Act 1983 . we be bring forward a cross - cut mental health approach , which I be sure the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will update the House on shortly . I welcome the Leader of the House to her position . on the day of the Dissolution of the last Parliament , the previous Government award million of pound of funding for accessibility at our more remote train station , include Swanwick and Hedge end in my constituency . will she confirm that that funding will remain in place , and may we have a debate about accessibility at our more remote train station ? as one of the few Labour Members present on that day , I remember that well . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the economic inheritance of this Government be a lot more challenging than we have fear , and some of the commitment make by the previous Government be not fund . we obviously take very seriously the commitment make to local community , and I be sure that there will be update for the House as soon as they be available . will the Leader of the House acknowledge the risk of fall school roll in the Cities of London and Westminster ? she will be aware that the Cities of London and Westminster have some excellent local primary school , many of which be just a few minute ' walk from this place . the sustainability of local primary school be at risk due to London ' s housing crisis , so will she allow a debate on the long - term sustainability of local primary school and their vital importance to central inner - city community ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place as the Labour MP for where we be today . she raise an important matter that should be cover by the child ' s wellbee Bill that be announce in the King ' s Speech , which will look at admission and place planning , and give local authority a great ability to do that than they currently have . the next Education question be due not long after we return from the summer recess , so she might want to raise this important matter then . I welcome the new Financial Conduct Authority rule on access to cash . one key thing that they set out be that bank should not close their branch before an assessment have take place and new alternative have be put in place . in Cupar , we have already see the closure of the Bank of Scotland , and problem over the summer regard the replenishment of the remain cash machine . may we have a debate in Government time about the FCA rule , and how we ensure that community that have already lose those service get the replacement assessment they be suppose to get ? I thank the hon . Lady for that important question . have sit through business question many time in the last Parliament , I know that she raise this topic consistently . the disappearance of bank from our high street be raise with many of we during the election campaign , which be why this Government be commit to have banking hub across the country , and to a coherent plan for town centre regeneration . I will consider her request for a debate and pass it on to the relevant Minister . it be the end of the school year , and I wish to place on the record my thank to all the teacher and governor , not just in Warwick and Leamington but across the country , for the work they have do in what have be a really tough year . at the beginning of the academic year , certain school be hit by the issue of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , which impact greatly on the education provision for so many in our community . may we have a debate on the impact of RAAC and asbestos on child ' s education , and on what mitigation can be offer ? I join my hon . friend in thank teacher right across the country for what they have do this academic year . give my new duty , I miss my child ' s very last day at primary school on Tuesday — [ hon . member : " Aww . " ] — so I would particularly like to thank his teacher , who I do not get a chance to see that day . I be a really bad mum , I be afraid ; it just go with the terrain . my hon . friend make an important point about the RAAC that remain in our school . it be one of the scandal of the previous Government that be not deal with . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education be look incredibly closely at these issue and will update the House in due course . let we have another mother . may I start by say what a joy it be to see the Leicestershire flag fly outside Parliament ? I secure that for my county after a thousand year without one . move on to Lincolnshire — I represent three county — the Government be right to build more house , but in that process it be crucial that we make sure that council hold developer and water company to account . in Corby Glen in Lincolnshire there have be a stink for well over a year , yet the labour - run rainbow council at South Kesteven refuse to meet the parish council or member of the local community . may we have a debate in Government time on how , with all the new house building , which be absolutely right , we will ensure that house builder and developer be hold to account by council and that we stop the stink in Corby Glen ? the hon . Lady raise an important matter . she will know that this Government be unashamedly pro house building , but that be not a free pass for developer . we want to see local plan that be develop locally , that be holistic and strategic , and that consider all issue — not just housing , but the infra - structure that sit alongside it . it be local plan design by local people that we want to see speed up , and hopefully that will resolve some of the issue with the stench that she have in her constituency . I welcome the Leader of the House to her place . I recently visit Kettering General hospital and have the privilege of meet the staff there . during my visit , I be inform that the maternity ward have RAAC and that patient who give birth have to be transport outside to another wing of the hospital . will she make time for a debate on RAAC in public sector building ? as we have just hear , this be an important issue for a number of colleague across the House . we be extremely concerned about the dire state of the NHS estate . RAAC be at the top of the priority of the Department of Health and Social Care . my hon . friend will be aware that once the presence of RAAC be confirm at a hospital site , it join NHS England ' s national RAAC programme , which have a considerable pot of money . I will ensure that she get an update on her hospital and that this House be update on RAAC in NHS hospital in general . I welcome the Leader of the House to her place , and may I say initially that I be sure she be a very good mum , actually ? when the Government abandon the plan to process illegal migrant offshore , they offer no real practical alternative , as my right hon . friend the shadow Leader of the House have say . I know that many of those arrive be genuine asylum seeker , and they need to be treat accordingly , but many be not . the british people be sick and tired of people arrive here illegally — not irregularly , but illegally — and not be deal with appropriately . will the Leader of the House tell we when the Government intend to act ? what be their timescale ? what be the number they intend to change ? enough be enough . the british people have have enough of their border be breach with impunity . my daughter , who be here today , might have a different view on whether I be a good or bad mum , but that be another point . with great respect to the right hon . Gentleman , it be a bit rich for Conservative Members to ask we these question today , give that they preside over the bad rise in illegal migration that this country have ever see . we have already establish the border security command , reallocate resource and make use of the plane to return to Vietnam those who be here illegally . he will know that more than £ 700 million be allocate to the Rwanda scheme , and all they manage to do with that amount of money be get four volunteer to Rwanda . we have a plan to tackle the criminal gang and get these number down , and we be get on with deliver that plan . first , can I take the opportunity to thank voter in the new constituency of Blaydon and Consett for put their trust in I ? it be truly a privilege . one of the exciting thing about the boundary change have be get to know the fantastic small business and community organisation on the County Durham side of my constituency , include Glenroyd House , the Foundation for Good , the Hub and St Mary Magdalene church , to name just a few . could we have a debate in Government time on the vital contribution of community organisation to our local community ? can I congratulate my hon . friend on her re - election ? I be sure that her new constituent will be as delighted as her old one be with how assiduous a constituency MP she be . the topic that she raise would make for a good Adjournment debate or Westminster Hall debate , and I wish she the good in get that through the draw . could I congratulate the Leader of the House on her new position ? could she ensure that a statement be bring forward on the International Criminal Court and International Court of Justice decision relate to Israel and Gaza , and on whether the UK Government will withdraw their objection to any ruling they have make so that they can go ahead and be part of international law ? the Prime Minister have say that the current UK Government be fully sign up to all aspect of international law and , of course , the european convention on human right . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . he be absolutely right . the Government be completely clear that our commitment to international law be resolute , and we be follow the necessary process in that regard . the Foreign Secretary have make it clear that he be undertake a comprehensive review of Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law . he have also make it clear that he will update the House as soon as that process be complete . I hope that that will be soon . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to consider the civil right situation in Bangladesh , where violent crackdown on protest have lead to the killing of hundred and a draconian communication blackout that be cause immense concern to my bangladeshi community and the wide community ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . the Government be deeply concerned by the violence in recent day in Bangladesh . the loss of life be unacceptable , and the right to protest must be protect and restore . I will ensure that the Foreign Secretary have hear her question and be able to update she and the House at the first opportunity . can we have a debate early in this Parliament on trust in politic and politician ? newly mint Ministers be already hop on and off the Airbus a321 : the same plane that be condemn in 2022 by the then opposition as " obscene " , " brazen " and " disgusting " . in that debate , will the Government be able to explain how that jaw - drop show of double standard and hypocrisy be compatible with restore trust ? I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman raise that point , because this afternoon we will have a debate on restore trust in politician and politic as the Government bring forward their manifesto commitment to take action on the sleaze , scandal and cronyism that we see in the last Parliament . we want to turn the page on that decisively , as we be begin to do today . he will know that the Prime Minister ' s travel arrangement be security matter , and I be sure that he will respect that . many resident in Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley be sick of the noise and disruption of illegal off - road motorbike . during the election campaign , we promise to change the rule so that the police could crush illegal off - road bike that they seize within 48 hour — something that the Tories fail to do in 14 year . can the Leader of the House update we on when those measure may be bring forward and when member may have an opportunity to discuss action to cut anti - social behaviour ? what a fantastic question . I know from my own constituency that noisy off - road bike speed around local street and intimidate resident be a nightmare . that be particularly prevalent in the Friar Park area of my hon . friend ' s constituency . as she rightly say , the Government be commit to give the police the power that they need to crush nuisance dirt and quad bike within day of their be seize . that legislation will be bring forward in due course . tomorrow , I will visit Scunthorpe steelwork , where hundred of my constituent work , and many more hundred rely on the supply chain throughout northern Lincolnshire . I be aware that the previous Government undertake negotiation , and I know that the new Secretary of State will want to reassure the workforce , who be very anxious about their future employment situation . could the Leader of the House arrange for the Secretary of State to come to the House before the recess to provide that reassurance ? I thank the hon . member for that question . this Government be commit to UK steel production , particularly in Scunthorpe , Port Talbot and other part of the UK . he will know that we have a big plan for the green transition of steel , and we be bring forward the industrial strategy council measure and other that will support the long - term future of british steel in this country . the next question for the Department for Business and Trade be shortly after we return from recess , and I be sure that he will want to raise the issue then . may I associate myself with the remark of my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , about the appalling incident at Manchester international airport yesterday ? I congratulate the Leader of the House and her team on their appointment . could we have a debate in Government time specifically on the cross - Government mission to reduce the appalling health inequality that we have inherit , which be particularly prevalent in my constituency ? I welcome my good friend and constituency neighbour to her place . I be sure that she will be a regular contributor to these and other question — I think she top the league in my region as the Member who contribute most in the last Parliament . she will be vocal on a number of issue . she be right ; reduce health inequality be core to our health mission . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care set out some of those priority at Health question early this week . we will have further debate on that matter in due course . around three year ago , two of my constituent , Paul and Joanne Snodden , buy a new home in a residential park . the park turn out to have no licence and now , unable to sell apart from to the park owner , they stand to lose £ 100 , 000 . park owner often impose punitive increase in pitch fee , and there be complaint of basic maintenance failure . could we have a debate on how to toughen law and enforcement on residential park ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that important question on behalf of his constituent . I be sure that many colleague across the House will share similar story . that sound like a good topic for a Westminster Hall or Adjournment debate . I be sure that he would have lot of support if he want to put in for that . it be easy to find a needle in a haystack than it be for my constituent to find an NHS dentist . many have tell I that they have to travel mile just to get an appointment , be force to go private or simply do not bother at all . could the Leader of the House tell I when the Health Secretary will update the House on his work to solve this crisis ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place as the new MP for Burton and Uttoxeter . he raise a significant issue that be of importance to other colleague . for many of we , access to dentistry come up all the time in the general election campaign , which be why this Government be commit to provide 700 , 000 additional urgent NHS dental appointment . my own dentist be very positive about the mood music come from this Government and their action on dentistry . I congratulate the Leader of the House and welcome she to her position . the olympic ceremony be happen tomorrow and soon we will be inspire by the athlete ' amazing feat . I congratulate two of my constituent who will be represent Team GB . however , too many girl face barrier to access sport , so may we have a debate in Government time on how we can encourage teenage girl to access sport and continue that into adulthood ? I thank the hon . member for that question and of course we wish Team GB well . I do wonder whether her party leader , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , might enter some of the water sport — or all sport , really . I be not sure how well he would fare , but I be sure he would give it a good go . get more young girl involve in sport be absolutely critical . one of the first action of the Government have be for the Secretary of State for Education to ask for a curriculum review to ensure there be more access to sport and PE for every child across their time in school . there will be further measure come forward in due course . like many constituency , in Spen Valley , we be intensely proud of our many town and village , all with their own unique identity . my constituent and I want to preserve the amenity at the heart of those community , such as the town hall in Cleckheaton or the library in Mirfield and Kirkheaton . do the Leader of the House agree that , as part of the very welcome devolution revolution that this Labour Government will deliver , we must ensure that every corner of our country be include in that mission of national renewal ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend ' s point . every town and village contribute greatly to the life of their local community . it be about not just library or banking facility , but a whole range of service and tackle issue such as rural and village crime . that be why the Government be commit to look at all those issue , but also give local community the power to determine the future of their own town and village . I thank the Leader of the House for the opportunity to ask a question regard the necessity of safeguard freedom of religion or belief . as I indicate to she , I would like to turn our attention to Mexico . in April , more than 150 baptist Protestants in Hidalgo state in Mexico be forcibly displace after their electricity be cut off , their church vandalise and access to their home block . the inaction of local government official have prolong the suffering of the family , who currently face exorbitant fine base on their conversion to Protestantism . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn those violation of freedom of religion or belief in Hidalgo state , and will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise the issue with its counterpart in Mexico ? I be pleased to see the hon . gentleman in his place today . I would expect nothing less . I be also pleased to see that , during his Adjournment debate this week , he be intervene on many time . I have hear he many time in this House and at business question raise the issue of freedom of religion or belief . he will know that the Government be commit to continue to support those measure and that we will continue to champion they in government . my constituency be almost unique in have both a large jewish and muslim population live side by side as friend , schoolmate , workmate and neighbour : a sign of hope in pretty troubled time around the world . however , many constituent from both community have be in touch about the rise tide of antisemitism and Islamophobia and the impact on they . will the Leader of the House make time available so this House can make clear our opposition to the hatred that stain too many of our community ? I thank my hon . friend for that important point . the Government absolutely stand steadfast against all hatred , antisemitism and Islamophobia , which unfortunately we have see on the rise in recent month . he will be aware that Home Office question , a good place to raise these matter , will take place next week . he might want to raise they with the Home Secretary then . town centre in constituency such as mine have increasingly struggle over the last 14 year , so I be pleased to see measure in the King ' s Speech to support our high street . business in my constituency be also interested in an update on the levelling - up fund for Halesowen town centre regeneration , which be promise by the previous Government , so can we have a debate on how we support our high street ? I be sure that my hon . friend ' s constituent will thank he greatly for raise the matter . the Government be give careful consideration to a number of levelling - up grant that we be keen to follow through on . he will be aware , though , that the difficult economic situation that we have inherit be much bad than we foresaw . the funding be not actually there for a number of the previous Government ' s commitment , but this Government will do our very good to support place like Halesowen with the additional funding that they need . in recent day , there have be protest in Rome , in Paris , in my right hon . friend ' s city of Manchester and in Trafalgar Square over what have be go on in Bangladesh . a three - figure number of student protester have be kill ; we do not know how many , because the internet have be turn off . may I press again for an urgent Government statement on our position , because I be not successful in the ballot for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office question on Tuesday ? we have a historic , unique role in this situation . my hon . friend raise an important point . we be deeply concerned about the violence of recent day . the loss of life be unacceptable . the right to protest must be restore and access to the internet should also be restore . we urge all side to have restraint in this regard . I know that the Foreign Secretary and Foreign Office Ministers will want to update the House ; we be run out of time ahead of the recess , but all possible step will be take to ensure that those important update be bring before the recess . the previous Government ' s performance in the roll - out of electric vehicle charging be woeful , and we be way behind where we need to be . will the Leader of the House consider a debate about how we can remove the bureaucratic barrier to the roll - out so that we can get where we need to be and remove as many petrol and diesel vehicle as possible from our road ? my hon . friend raise an incredibly important point . he be absolutely right that this Government ' s mission to achieve a transition to a clean energy superpower by 2030 , which be incredibly ambitious , will be limit by the roll - out of the necessary infrastructure for electric vehicle charge . there will be a debate tomorrow on these matter , and I hope that he will have the opportunity to raise the issue then . under the last Labour Government , every single ward in my constituency have six dedicated police and community support officer keep people safe on the street , but after 14 year of a Conservative Government we now have 10 , 000 few police officer on our street . in my constituency , that have lead to an open drug market on Guru Nanak Road in Southall and similar issue with crime and antisocial behaviour on west Ealing Broadway . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on how we can bring forward as quickly as possible this Government ' s very welcome plan to recruit 13 , 000 extra police and community support officer and bring back neighbourhood policing , so my constituent can feel safe again on their street ? my hon . Friend ask a very important question . she be absolutely right : bring back neighbourhood policing be a key task for the Home Secretary . part of our manifesto and of our " first step " commitment to this country be that we would recruit an additional 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer ; step towards that have already be take . it be also a key plank of the crime and police Bill , which be announce in the King ' s Speech and will come before the House in due course . greenacre school in my constituency be sink . five year ago , it apply to the risk protection arrangement scheme after concern about drainage . it have be close since March , and pupil and parent be rightly worried about the school ' s future . may we have a statement about what the Government be do to review whether such scheme be fit for purpose and whether the rest of our school building be at risk from reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete and other condition ? I be really sorry to hear that the school in my hon . friend ' s constituency be in such a state of disrepair . I be afraid it be a familiar story . our school estate be in a very poor state and be in need of serious investment , for which I be afraid sufficient funding be not available at the moment . I know that these matter be of concern to the Secretary of State for Education ; my hon . friend may wish to raise they at Education question , which be come up after the recess . Derby be the late victim of a trend in the publication of unflattering depiction of town or city for clickbait . may I invite journalist to visit , with I , the Museum of Making , the Quad cultural hub and the D é da creative centre for dance , take a boat trip up to Darley Abbey , have lunch at Birds and dinner at Darleys , and see the progress that the Labour council be make on the Becketwell performance venue , Derby market hall and the Guildhall theatre ? I think that when all that regeneration work be do , which ? should repeat its survey of UK city in the interest of fairness . may we have a debate about city centre regeneration ? Derby North sound like a thoroughly lovely place to visit , and I look forward to do so at some point soon . my hon . friend have make a strong case , and I think that the issue of town centre regeneration , which have come up many time today , would be a worthy subject for a forthcoming Westminster Hall debate or a general debate in this place . I have be inundate with message of concern and upset from my constituent follow the horrific image from Manchester airport , and I myself be deeply concerned about what can only be describe as a complete abuse of power . will the Leader of the House join I in declare , to reassure the general public , that we should never have to witness such scene of violence in a country such as ours where no authority be above the law , and that all necessary measure must be take to investigate how and why such an incident arise ? as a Manchester MP myself , I too be extremely disturb by that footage , which have understandably cause a great deal of public concern . it be truly shocking to see . other Members have raise the same topic this morning , and , as I say early , Greater Manchester police have say that the officer involve be immediately suspend from duty and a referral have now be make to the Independent Office for Police Conduct , which be absolutely the right thing to do . let we hope that we do not see scene like that again . Johnson Matthey , in my constituency , have join other firm in the UK metal sector in create the " Back British Metals " initiative , which be intend to attract more private sector investment in the sector . might my right hon . friend be able to find time for a debate on that initiative , and on how we can attract further investment ? I know from my previous work with my hon . friend , who I be sure will make a fantastic contribution to the House as the MP for Stockton North , that he be extremely committed to these issue . the Government will look forward to work with he on the " Back British Metals " campaign , which I hope he will take forward in the come week . People in my new constituency have tell I that they feel let down by the lack of local bus service provision , be it in Wigmore in the east or Caddington and village in the west . will the Leader of the House provide time for a debate on the Government ' s exciting plan to give local leader new power to franchise local bus service and lift the ban on municipal ownership ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be afraid that local bus service be woeful in most part of the country because , in many case , they be privately run and desperately underfunded . that be why this Government be so committed to ensure that the bus reform Bill be include in the King ' s Speech . it will be introduce in due course , and I think that it will revolutionise bus service in my hon . friend ' s constituency and across the country . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate on the failure of Conservative - control Nottinghamshire county council to build the desperately need expansion of Outwood academy Portland , a secondary school in Worksop , despite the £ 4 . 5 million of community infrastructure levy money I receive in April last year when I be Bassetlaw district council ' s deputy leader ? my hon . friend raise a very important matter . build new school , and meeting school ' need in her local area , be absolutely critical to this Government ' s mission of make sure that there be opportunity for all , which be the priority of our Education Secretary . I be sure that my hon . friend will take every opportunity to raise this issue in Education question , which be come up . if not , I will make sure that she get a good reply from the Minister . give the recent tragic shooting that take place on the street of my constituency , can the Leader of the House confirm that there will be time to debate the issue of violent crime , with a real focus on the root cause in order to tackle gun crime in our society ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place , and I be sorry to hear of the tragic circumstance in her constituency . this Government be commit to tackle issue around firearm — not just the symptom , but the root cause , as she say — and there will be ample time to discuss these matter . of course , there will be Home Office question next week , where she may want to raise these matter far . hundred of thousand of people will be visit my fantastic city of York over the summer . however , many of they will be stay in short - term holiday let , with one in 10 property in the city centre be Airbnbs . can we have a debate about how this Government will not just register Airbnbs , but license they , so that local authority can control their housing stock ? my hon . friend raise an important issue that affect many city , such as my own and hers . this Government have a manifesto commitment to look at these issue and take action as soon as we can , and I be sure that she will be able to raise they with the Housing , Communities and Local Government Secretary in oral question as soon as we come back on 2 September . one of the big issue face my resident in Gloucester be the crippling cost of living crisis , which be the legacy of the last Government . we have sky - high energy bill , low - pay job and eye - water mortgage hike . will my right hon . friend make time for a debate on what the new Government will do to tackle the cost of live crisis and deliver the change that my resident in Gloucester vote for ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . in the last Parliament , we see living standard fall for the first time in our history , which be why many people vote Labour at the election . they want change , and they want their living standard restore . we have a wide range of policy to that end , and he might want to raise some of these issue next week , when we will debate the fiscal responsibility Bill . of course , it be the last government , in which the shadow Leader of the House be the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , who crash the economy and send mortgage rate sky high . from Stotfold to Shefford , parent , pupil and school alike have be let down by my council ' s failure to deliver a long - promise three - tier to two - tier school transition . give the challenge that the council be clearly have in deliver that on its own , will the Secretary of State for Education make a statement about how the Department can well support the council to finally get it over the line ? I will arrange for the Secretary of State to address that very important matter , which relate to my hon . friend ' s constituency and the transition from a three - tier to a two - tier education system . may I ask the Leader of the House to find time for a debate on the long - overdue need to update gambling regulation ? the most recent legislation be from 2005 , which be long before the growth of online and mobile opportunity . I recently meet representative of Gambling with life in my constituency and hear some heartbreaking story about people who have lose their love one to the terrible illness of addiction . the law should protect child and vulnerable adult , with more effective regulation . will she please allow a debate in Government time on this issue ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . I , too , have meet many of the family from Gambling with life , and their story be utterly tragic . we be commit to redouble our effort to reduce gambling - relate harm , and she will be aware that the previous Government propose a number of measure , which we be look at take forward . last week , Plan International UK launch a report that reveal that Blackpool be the second tough place for girl in the UK . the report detail that the place - base inequality face girl age 16 to 24 include sexual assault , child poverty , health and academic attainment . go forward , I will champion tackle these issue , as they be at the heart of gender inequality and deprivation . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time to discuss how we can support girl and young woman in Blackpool and across our country ? my hon . friend be right to raise the difficulty that young woman in his Blackpool South constituency face . the Government be commit to several measure that I hope will ensure that , over time , they no long face such difficulty . we want to halve violence against woman and girl ; we have a taskforce on a child poverty strategy across Government ; and our opportunity - for - all mission will drive opportunity for everybody in every part of the country , include Blackpool South . Knife crime and youth violence be a disease that have cast a devastating shadow on constituency such as mine in Croydon East and on community across the country . with 49 , 000 record offence involve a knife last year , the Government ' s commitment to not only get those lethal blade off our street by finally ban zombie knife , which the previous Government refuse to do , but tackle the complex cause of violent crime by introduce a sure start - style service for teenager be welcome now more than ever . can the Leader of the House allow time for a statement to outline the work as it begin and how grassroots organisation can plug into it ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . we have commit to tackle knife crime by ban zombie knife and other matter , but she be right that we need to tackle the root cause and the symptom , which be why we have plan for a Young Futures programme . the Home Secretary and the Mayor of London discuss that and all knife crime - relate issue yesterday . my hon . friend may want to be present for Home Office question next week when I be sure she will get an update from the Home Secretary . area such as mine in Lowestoft and Beccles have become so - call dental desert in the last 14 year . we have one of the low number of dentist in the east of England , and none be accept new patient in 2022 . I welcome the range of measure that the Health Secretary have outline , but I ask for a debate on this press topic . I welcome my hon . friend to her place . she and I be involve in Young Labour together — only a few year ago , I feel — so it be great to see she finally in this place where she belong . she raise the important matter of NHS dentistry and the difficulty that people have get an NHS appointment , which be particularly acute in Suffolk . that be why the Government be commit to a rescue plan and to provide another 700 , 000 nhs dentist appointment , which I hope will relieve that acuteness in Suffolk . I send my good wish to John as he approach his retirement . I first meet he in 2009 as a Member of the UK Youth Parliament — now I be here and he be leave . Newcastle - under - Lyme be home to many veteran and their family . they be courageous and good people . can we have a debate on how we can give our veteran the support that they deserve and the appreciation that they have earn ? I join my hon . friend in thank John again , who have sit through business question one last time as a Doorkeeper . my hon . friend raise an important issue about support veteran . he will know that the Veterans Minister have move back into the Ministry of Defence , which have Question Time after recess . I hope he will be able to raise the matter then . I call Amanda Martin for the final business question . I welcome the Leader of the House to her place as she take the rein from my predecessor . in my constituency of Portsmouth North , there be house in multiple occupation where family home have be turn into nine or sometimes 10 - bedroom house . as one of the most densely populate city in Europe , turn family home into HMOs be a stick plaster for the urgent need for affordable , social and council home in our city . can the Leader of the House look into when we can have a debate on plan reform to give more power to local government to stop family home be turn into HMOs ? I welcome my hon . friend , the new Member for Portsmouth North , to business question . we have a different member for Portsmouth North at the Dispatch Box in previous session , so I warmly welcome she . she raise an important matter that will be of importance to other hon . member . local authority have plan power to limit the proliferation of HMOs , but I know from my constituency how difficult those power be to exercise . she would be well within her right to raise that with the Deputy Prime Minister , who I think will be in the Chamber before recess to give an update on some of these issue . order . I know that some member will be disappoint not to get in . that be why it be well if we can speed up question and answer . it be a little while until the next business question , but I have a list of those who do not get in , so please rest assure that we will try to look after everybody . bill present great British Energy Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Edward Miliband , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , Secretary Peter Kyle , Secretary Hilary Benn , Secretary Ian Murray , Secretary Jo Stevens , and Secretary Steve Reed present a Bill to make provision about great british Energy . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow and to be print ( Bill 5 ) . high Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Louise Haigh , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , and Secretary Steve Reed , present a Bill to make provision for a railway between a junction with phase 2a of High Speed 2 south of Crewe in Cheshire and Manchester Piccadilly Station ; for a railway between Hoo Green in Cheshire and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Bamfurlong , south of Wigan ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first and second time without question put and commit to a Select Committee ( Standing Order No . 80a and Order , 20 June ) ; to be print ( Bill 6 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 6 - en ) . business without Debate Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) Bill Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 56 ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . question put forthwith , that the Bill be now read the third time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Criminal Law I beg to move , that the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Requisite and Minimum Custodial Periods ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 17 July , be approve . follow my announcement on Friday 12 July and an oral statement to the House last Thursday , Members will know that our prison be in crisis . the male prison estate have be run at around 99 % capacity for 18 month . we now know that my predecessor warn 10 Downing Street of the peril of inaction , but rather than address the crisis , the former Prime Minister call an election and leave we a time bomb , tick away . if we do not act now , and that bomb go off , our prison will reach full capacity and the justice system will grind to a halt . the court would have to stop hold trial and the police would be unable to make arrest . with criminal free to act without consequence , the public would be put at risk . if we do not act now , this nightmare will become reality by September . we have explore all the option available to we . in the precious little time we have , we can not build more prison or add more prison block , and we can not fit out an exist site to make it secure enough to hold offender . although we be deport foreign national offender as fast as legally possible , we can not do so quickly enough to address the crisis . although we must make progress on the remand population — those who be in prison while they await trial — such measure take time we do not have . that have leave we with only one option to avert disaster . the statutory instrument that we be consider today will change the law so that prisoner serve eligible standard determinate sentence will have their automatic release point adjust to 40 % rather than 50 % of their sentence . that will mean that around 5 , 500 offender will be release , in two tranche , in September and October . they will leave prison a few week or month early , to serve the rest of their sentence under strict licence condition in the community . thereafter , all qualify sentence will continue to be subject to the new 40 % release point . let I turn now to the detail of this legislation , the sentence that qualify for this measure , and those that do not . first , this change apply to both male and female offender . this be a legal necessity and address the pressure in both the male and female prison estate . although this measure do not apply to those serve in the youth estate , where capacity pressure be less acute , it do apply to a few individual serve sentence under section 250 of the Sentencing Act 2020 . Most of those serve these sentence be serve long term that be exclude from the measure , as I will go on to explain . however , a few be in scope , and be include because they be likely to end their term in the adult estate . the provision also include those on a detention in a young offender institution , and 18 to 20 year - old who be hold in adult prison . as such , both contribute to the capacity crisis . as the measure must balance address the crisis in our prison alongside the need to protect the public , certain sentence will be exclude . the bad violent and sexual crime , which be subject to a 67 % release , will not be eligible . neither will violent offence subject to a sentence of four year or more under part 1 of schedule 15 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 . sexual offence will be exclude , include offence relate to child sexual abuse and grooming . we will exclude a series of offence link to domestic abuse , include stalk , control or coercive behaviour and non - fatal strangulation . national security offence under the official Secrets Acts and National Security Act 2023 , and offence determine to have be carry out for a foreign power , will also be exclude , as will serious terrorism offence and terrorism - connect offence , which remain subject to a 67 % release at the Parole Board ' s discretion . so too will terrorism offence , which be currently subject to a 50 % release . I thank the Minister for her statement . I clearly understand the Government ' s predicament and the reason for bring forward these legislative change , but one matter that I and other elect representative in this House have have to deal with in recent year be the predicament that victim face of meet the perpetrator of a crime out on the street , which bring back enormous trauma . I welcome what the Minister say about some condition take precedence in relation to those be release , but can she reassure the victim who be worried about what be happen ? we need to have that reassurance on the record in this House . Madam Deputy Speaker , those people be worried and they want to be reassure . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . he raise an incredibly important matter . I have have the feeling of victim very much in my mind as I have be force to make this decision . nothing in relation to the victim notification scheme or the victim contact scheme will change as a result of these measure . all the usual arrangement will apply and I shall detail some of those a little later in my speech . return to the offence that be exclude , in each case we have exclude specific offence , rather than cohort of offender . that be a legal necessity . it be only possible to make this change in law , with reference to qualify sentence . in addition to these exclusion , there will be stringent protection in place around any early release . this change to the law will not take effect until September , which give our hard - work Probation Service a crucial six - week implementation period . probation officer will therefore have the time they need to assess the risk of each offender and prepare a plan to manage they safely in the community . all offender release under this policy will be subject to stringent licence condition . where necessary , multi - agency public protection arrangement will be put in place to protect the public , as will multi - agency risk assessment conference , which ensure that victim can be protect . victim eligible for the victim contact scheme or the victim notification scheme will be notify about release and development in their case . offender will be order to wear electronic tag where require . exclusion zone and curfew will be impose where appropriate . crucially , if an offender break any of the condition impose on they , they can be return to prison immediately . I be sure that the whole House will be pleased to hear of the safeguard that the Lord Chancellor be put in place . be she confident that , by the time the change to the scheme come into effect , both victim notification and probation — and , indeed , police and accommodation service — will be in a position to pick up those be release ? that be precisely why we have ensure that we have an implementation period for this policy change . that work will continue at pace over the summer , so that the Probation Service have the time to prepare proper release plan for offender who will be release as a result of the change and to ensure that all our obligation to victim and the wide public be fulfil . let I also be clear that this change be not permanent . we will review this measure within 18 month of implementation — at the very late , in March 2026 . at that point , we believe that the situation in our prison will have stabilise and that we will be able to reverse the measure , return the automatic point of release to 50 % of a sentence . I want to directly address a question raise during the oral statement in the House last week . we have not include a specific sunset clause within the legislation that would end it automatically . we have pledge to be honest about the challenge in our prison and the change that we put in place to rise to they ; that be a marked difference from the previous Administration ' s approach . give the scale of the crisis that we have inherit , place an artificial time limit on this measure would be nothing more than an irresponsible gimmick . we have take the very deliberate decision not to reverse this measure until we be certain that prison capacity have stabilise . the last Government allow our prison to fall into crisis . we will not introduce legislation that could force we back there again . finally , we will introduce a new , high standard of transparency . every quarter , we will publish datum on the number of offender release , and we will make it a statutory requirement for a prison capacity statement to be publish annually , introduce that legislation as soon as parliamentary time allow . we be clear that this be the only safe way forward . the House do not have to take my word for it : we have hear senior figure in the police , prison and probation all warning of what will happen if these measure be not take . we have even hear my predecessor as Lord Chancellor come out in support of this measure . thank to the action — or rather , inaction — of the last Prime Minister , our predecessor run the prison estate to within day of disaster . as a result , they be force to introduce a series of emergency measure , such as Operation Safeguard , which turn police cell into prison overflow , and Operation early Dawn , a daily triage system that manage the flow of prisoner from police cell to the court . they even come perilously close to trigger Operation Brinker , which be effectively a one - in , one - out measure in our prison . it be the very last , desperate act available to forestall , by a matter of day , the total collapse of law and order in this country . the last government also introduce the flawed end of custody supervise licence scheme . when this new legislation take effect , it will be my pleasure to end ECSL . with next to no implementation period , ECSL release offender with only a few day of warning , and sometimes none at all . that give the Probation Service no time to assess the risk of offender , and next to no time to plan how they would be manage safely in the community . this new legislation , with its long , eight - week implementation period , give the Probation Service the time that it need to prepare . the last government ' s early release scheme do not have the same exclusion that this new legislation have . most notably , it provide no exclusion for offence link to domestic abuse . that mean no exclusion for stalk , for strangulation , for control or coercive behaviour , or for breach of restrain order , non - molestation order and domestic abuse order , all of which be exclude in the legislation present to the House today . perhaps bad of all , this quick fix be carry out under a veil of secrecy . a number of extension be make to the scheme , which first release offender up to 18 day early , then 35 to 60 day early , and finally up to 70 day early . that last extension be implement without any announcement at all . throughout , no data be ever publish by the previous Government on the number release ; it fall to this Administration to reveal the true scale of the ECSL scheme . only now do we know that more than 10 , 000 offender be rush out under that veil of secrecy by the previous Administration . our approach will be different . unlike under the previous Government , those sit on the Opposition Benches will never have to chase I around this building to get hold of the number . the number will be put in the public domain for all to see and scrutinise , as they should have be all along . ECSL be one of a series of decision that this Government believe must be examine more fully . that be why I have announce a review into how this capacity crisis be allow to happen , which will look at why the necessary decision be not take at critical moment . we will shortly be appoint an independent chair for the review , which will conclude by the end of this year . let I be clear : the crisis in our prison be not over . the prison population remain within a few hundred place of collapse . last week , we temporarily close HMP Dartmoor , take around 200 place out of the prison estate . although we be able to withstand that loss of capacity , any further change — be they a further loss of supply or an unexpected increase in demand — could tip we into crisis . the measure that I have set out will take effect in September , give probation officer the precious time they need to prepare . during that time , we will continue to monitor the prison population closely and we will be ready to introduce further emergency measure such as Operation early Dawn or Operation Safeguard if require . I have three prison in my constituency . will the Secretary of State explain how bad the situation will be if we do not act today ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . if we do not act today , we face a total collapse of law and order in this country . if we be force to enact Operation Brinker , it will be a one - in , one - out system and we be then day away from the total collapse of the criminal justice system . it be a shocking state of affair that the previous Government be entirely responsible for , and it have fall to our Administration to start to put these matter right with the decisive action we be take . this be the only option on the table . I remind the House again that we have no choice other than to pass this measure to deal with the crisis we have inherit . even once we have pass the measure , we will not yet be out of the wood . our prison be still in crisis . the last Government run the prison system on the basis of luck . they hang on by their fingernail until they could hang on no long , and then they call an election . this government will never run that risk . we will always take the necessary action . I thank the Secretary of State for her reassurance on the exclusion of sexual and domestic violence sentence . while prison be about punishment and keep our community safe , one of the main way we can keep our prison population down be through rehabilitation , rebuild life and reduce reoffende . do she agree that education be central to that rehabilitation , and will she meet I and Milton Keynes college , the big provider of education in prison , to discuss how we can take it far ? my hon . friend be right that , ultimately , one of the long - term solution to the capacity crisis must be to reduce reoffende ; I be just come on to that point in my speech . I will happily arrange for she to meet the Prisons Minister and I will take a close interest in what be happen in Milton Keynes . let we be under no illusion . the measure I have set out today be not a silver bullet . it do not end the prison crisis . it be not the long - term solution . instead , it buy we the time we need to take further measure that can address the prison crisis not just now , but in the future . later this year , we will publish a 10 - year capacity strategy , which will outline the step that the Government will take to acquire land for new prison site and will ensure that building prison — infrastructure that we deem to be of national importance — be a decision place in a Minister ' s hand . we must also drive down reoffende . currently , all too often our prison create well criminal , not well citizen . nearly 80 % of offender be reoffender . a strong Probation Service will be crucial to drive down reoffende , and we will start by recruit at least 1 , 000 new trainee probation officer by the end of March 2025 , bring forward an exist commitment to address the immediate challenge we face today . we will also work with prison to ensure that offender can get the skill they need to contribute to society on release , as well as bring together prison governor , local employer and the voluntary sector to help they into work , because we know that have a job make offender less likely to reoffend . the last occupant of 10 Downing Street leave our prison in crisis . the Secretary of State will be aware that Cities of London and Westminster have some of the high level of rough sleeping in the country , with 2 , 050 rough sleeper every night in Westminster and 482 in the City of London . St Mungo ' s have highlight that 68 % of people release from prison into rough sleeping will reoffend within the year . it be simply essential that a planning process and need assessment take place before people be release . local authority with the responsibility of prevent homelessness simply do not have the resource or working process to ensure that that planning take place . will those process and resource be in place before the legislation be implement in September ? the point about homelessness , and what it mean for recall into prison , be incredibly important . the implementation period allow probation time to prepare plan for every offender who will be release . that be different from the previous Government ' s ecsl scheme , which give no time at all . some of these issue will be mitigate by that implementation period . offender leave prison can access transitional accommodation for up to 84 night if they be at risk of be homeless . those provision will continue as this scheme be roll out . I be sure that many of we will have be appal by the comment of the former Lord Chancellor , who say that the measure that this Government be take be not take by the last government because " you have to win vote . " how do the Secretary of State respond to that ? the public make the decision for the previous Administration by vote they out of office in such a stunning manner . we do have to win vote — it be a democracy , at the end of the day — but we must also govern the country in a way that do not risk the total collapse of the criminal justice system . it be a sign of the Tory party ' s collective nervous breakdown in government that the risk of run the criminal justice system into the ground , with the total collapse of law and order in this country , be allow to happen in the first place . this new Administration will never take such a risk , and we be take these measure today to start put thing right and clean up the mess that we have inherit from the Tory party . the last occupant of 10 Downing Street leave our prison in crisis . they leave our criminal justice system at the point of collapse . they be the guilty man ; I know the historical weight of those word , but they be apt . the last Government place the country in unconscionable peril . this government ' s legacy will be different : a prison system bring under control , a Probation Service that keep the public safe , enough prison place to meet our need , and prison , probation and other service work together to break the cycle of reoffende . today ' s measure be not the long - term solution — I be not pretend that it be ; there be a hard road ahead of we — but it be the necessary first step . I call the official Opposition spokesman . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your new role . I be grateful for the opportunity to debate the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Requisite and Minimum Custodial Periods ) Order 2024 , follow the Lord Chancellor ' s statement on prison capacity last week . this statutory instrument be significant , so it be right that we have the opportunity to scrutinise , challenge and call on the Government for clear answer to a number of vital question . although the SI be comprise of only five clause and a schedule , its impact should not be underestimate . it reduce the automatic release point for criminal on standard determinate sentence from 50 % of their sentence to 40 % , subject to limited exclusion . as the shadow Lord Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , have set out , we recognise the challenge and significant pressure face prison and the criminal justice system , as well as the need to ensure that they continue to function effectively . those pressure be well known to the then opposition — they be not sudden news . in government , in order to protect society , we take the decision to toughen sentence for those who commit the bad crime . in parallel , we set in train the big prison - build programme since the victorian era , with thousand of additional place deliver , and five of the six new prison either build , in construction or with planning permission grant . however , what have a huge impact on the prison population be our take the right decision not to mass release prisoner in the pandemic , and not to scrap trial by jury during the pandemic , mean that the number of remand prisoner await trial or sentence increase from around 9 , 000 to around 16 , 500 . those decision , which , if I recall correctly , be not oppose by the then opposition , be the right decision , and the now Government can not credibly claim they do not know about they . public protection must always be central to what the Lord Chancellor do . we have grave public protection concern about the Government bring forward this statutory instrument to reduce capacity pressure in prison . when the shadow Lord Chancellor press the Lord Chancellor on a number of our key concern last week , the Lord Chancellor be unable to provide the reassurance and commitment that we seek . today , as we debate the detail of the instrument , I must press she again , and I hope that she will respond in her wind - up . by way of context , can the Lord Chancellor confirm the number of place available in the adult male estate as of this morning — I believe that the figure be around 700 when she make her statement — so that the House might understand the rate of attrition in prison place ? she fail last week to set out her criterion for end the effect of the statutory instrument after 18 month . more importantly , why do the statutory instrument not contain a sunset clause ? I realise that she touch on that , but give the significance of the power , surely it be reasonable to sunset such a measure . rather than we give she a blank cheque , she could always return to the House to seek its agreement to renew the measure , if need . the SI and support document suggest that the Lord Chancellor have not put in place any exclusion to prevent the bad , persistent repeat offender who receive short sentence from benefit . be that correct ? the SI set out that prisoner may benefit from the change if their sentence be under five year . be she aware that under the sentencing guideline , a section 20 grievous bodily harm wound offence under the offence against the Person Act 1861 — a serious offence — would attract a sentence of up to five year ? would those who have commit that offence benefit from her prisoner sentence reduction scheme ? rise — there will be an opportunity to respond to I later . as we know , many offence link to dreadful domestic abuse and domestic violence do not appear to be among the Lord Chancellor ' s exclusion , as the offence prosecute would be , for example , a section 20 GBH or common assault . what do she say to victim of domestic abuse who be worried that the way in which the measure have be draft risk allow their attacker to benefit from her early release scheme ? what percentage of those who be release when 40 % of their sentence be serve , rather than 50 % , will be recall back into prison for breach ? what step be she take to mandate the imposition of GPS tag or other strict condition on those who benefit from the measure ? again , there be no detail in the SI . what additional resource be be make available to probation by September , when this early release scheme be due to start , over and above what be already put in place by the previous Government ? the Lord Chancellor state her plan for next March , but what about this September , when her scheme come into play ? how many additional staff will be in place in offender management unit by September , to meet the demand of sentence and release - point recalculation ? what additional funding be the Ministry of Justice make available to local authority and other housing provider to meet the short to medium - term increase in demand for suitable accommodation in the come month ? last week , the Lord Chancellor confirm her intention to temporarily fully close HMP Dartmoor . where do she intend to find the place lose ? more broadly , she ask the House to support the open - end measure in the SI , but be yet to set out any detail of a long - term capacity plan — either how she will pay for and build more prison place over and above those we already commit to , or whether she will reverse the change we make to toughen sentence for dangerous criminal . which be it ? what be the plan ? while we recognise the need to address immediate pressure in the prison system , we be deeply trouble by the lack of detail in this statutory instrument and its support document , and by the huge gap that appear to exist , which I have set out . a blank cheque be be ask for , and there be no sunsetting of this significant measure , and no ability to amend the instrument to include a sunset provision . I have highlight example of serious offence that appear not to be exclude , offence that can often be link to domestic violence or wounding . the absence of such measure , and of clarity , mean that this instrument be draft in a way that be deeply troubling . I look forward to the Lord Chancellor ' s response and reassurance during her wind - up remark . I call Bambos Charalambous . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election and welcome you to your place as Deputy Speaker . I welcome this motion from my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor , who be take the only realistic action open to she to deal with the critical issue of prison capacity , with our prison project to be overflow by September . this be another failure by the former Conservative Government , the result of their continuously kick the can down the road , rather than deal with the issue at hand . the current situation can not come as a surprise to anyone who have be follow the development in criminal justice over the past 14 year . prior to the election be call , I have the pleasure of serve for a second time on the Justice Committee , and on 22 May this year , in one of his last statement as Chair of the Committee , Sir Bob Neill KC say that " prison be simply run out of space . my committee have long since warn of the danger of successive government ignore the rise in jail number , set against a workforce recruitment and retention crisis and a crumbling victorian prison estate . minister and society must be prepare to invest in prison capacity and proper rehabilitation programme as the current situation be unsustainable " . that be the conservative former Chair of the Justice Committee speak . the warning sign be there a long time ago , but the failure to invest have mean that we be now reap this bitter harvest . I welcome the prison building programme and the renewal programme mention by my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor , but in addition to the measure propose in this motion , I would like to suggest some further measure that may reduce the prison population over a long term . the first measure be address court delay . in its report " reduce the backlog in the Crown Court " , publish in May this year , the National Audit Office find that at the end of December 2023 , the outstanding Crown court caseload be 65 , 573 , and 18 , 000 of those case have be outstanding for a year or more . it also find that it take an average of 683 day from offence to completion of a case in the Crown court , and that a staggering 16 , 005 people be on remand as of the end of December 2023 . one third be await sentencing , and the remain two third be await trial . the remand population be the high it have be in over 50 year . those figure be truly shocking , and the issue of remand prisoner need to be address urgently . the maxim that justice delay be justice deny be certainly apt , and we should remember that delay in case go to trial also have adverse impact on the victim and witness . one of the cause of the delay be a shortage of criminal barrister and duty solicitor , whose number have be in decline since 2018 . in part , that have be due to a serious under - investment in our criminal justice system over the past two decade . I hope that we will soon see the investment we need in the criminal justice system from this Government . on court date and the listing of trial , I very much hope that his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service get smart in how it use time and space for court hearing . the second point I wish to make be about reoffende , an issue that my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor have touch on . accord the Ministry of Justice ' s own figure from the last quarter for which stat be available , 33 . 4 % of adult release from custody will go on to reoffend . that figure be way too high . as reoffende be so high , it should come as no surprise that a large number of people be be remand for non - violent offence due to their repeat offending . many of those repeat offender will have underlying vulnerability , such as drug abuse , homelessness and mental health issue , which will not have be properly address . unless there be a co - ordinate approach to tackle the cause of reoffende , we will see this endless revolving - door cycle in our criminal justice system that give court no option but to remand repeat offender into custody . I know that my right hon . friend be serious about take action to address those issue , and I ask she to co - ordinate work with other Departments to help stop reoffende . the final point I wish to focus on be imprisonment for public protection prisoner , who account for approximately 3 , 000 of the prisoner in our prison . in its report on IPP prisoner , the Justice Committee say that " our primary recommendation be that the Government bring forward legislation to enable a resentencing exercise in relation to all IPP sentence individual … this be the only way to address the unique injustice cause by the IPP sentence and its subsequent administration , and to restore proportionality to the original sentence that be give . " on previous occasion , I have make the point that deal with IPP prisoner who have spend more time in prison than they should have would not only help reduce the prison population , but would right a wrong . in conclusion , I very much welcome this motion as a short - term measure to deal with the overcrowding in our prison . I also welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to an annual prison capacity statement , which will allow we to see what effect this measure and other measure have on the prison population . in addition to build more prison , we need an investment in our criminal justice system , and great recruitment and retention of barrister , solicitor , prison officer and probation officer . I be delighted to hear that my right hon . friend have commit to recruit 1 , 000 more probation officer . that will certainly help to address issue that arise among people who be on licence after serve half of their sentence . we need to clear the backlog of case in the Crown court to allow remand prisoner to be deal with soon , and we also need to address the root cause of both offend and reoffende . finally , we need to deal with IPP prisoner , and see what can be do to release those who be over tariff . I hope that the motion will pass today ; it be a very good start to tackle the gordian knot that we face . still more work need to be do , but I have every confidence that the Lord Chancellor and her team will deliver . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election , as well as the other Deputy Speakers , and welcome you to your place . I would not go so far as to say that I welcome the measure that have be outline today and what be be propose , but I and the Liberal Democrats recognise that this be probably the only step that the Government can take to deal with the situation . we be look to relieve pressure on prison against a backdrop of concern that the prison population be rise beyond the operational capacity of the prison estate . indeed , as of July 2024 , the prison population in England and Wales be measure as 87 , 453 , whereas operational capacity be 88 , 864 . as member have highlight , reoffende rate remain high , with 75 % of ex - inmate reoffende within nine year of release , and 39 . 3 % reoffende within the first 12 month . it be estimate that reoffende cost our society more than £ 18 billion a year . we should also recognise that violence against prison staff have soar as they cope with these capacity issue ; an average of 23 attack be record every day last year across England and Wales . issue with staff recruitment and retention have persist , with english prison run red regime due to fall below minimum staffing level at least 22 time in 2023 . it be right to recognise that the problem be partly due to the backlog in our criminal court , which skyrocket under the previous Conservative Government . I find the official Opposition ' s response today quite stunning . we want to work as a constructive opposition , so that we can help deal with issue around prison overcrowding , so for they to press the Lord Chancellor for answer when they know the answer — they know they before the last election — be quite something . as of March 2024 , remand population have rise by 84 % to a record high of over 16 , 000 people , account for almost 20 % of the total prison population . it be quite clear that we need to take action on that issue . back in November 2023 , the previous Administration recognise the issue around prison overcrowding and introduce their own emergency measure , so surely they should recognise today that further measure be necessary . this be about our criminal justice system as a whole , and trust in our criminal justice system as a whole be at an all - time low . the new Government talk about be a Government of service . I be a police officer for 12 year , and I consider that to be part of the public service I have give . I want to mention the shocking footage from Manchester airport yesterday . as a former police officer , I be deeply disturb by what I see . I also want to share my concern and thought for the family of the two police officer and the member of the public who be seriously injure in a car accident on the m8 outside Glasgow yesterday . the issue face the Lord Chancellor be not limit to England and Wales . indeed , the Scottish Human Rights Commission have today publish a report criticise the Scottish Government ' s " glacial pace of change " in tackle overcrowding , suicide and mental health provision in our prison . only last month , the Scottish Government be make decision similar to those be make by this Government in relation to release prisoner early . although , as with this Government , there be exception to that overall approach , I absolutely understand the concern of victim in see the early release of those who have offend against they , and that be something we must continue to recognise . although the Government have outline that there will not be a sunset clause in the SI , and that they be look to bring this to an end in 18 month ' time , I would appreciate some clarity from the Lord Chancellor on report to this place on the progress be make . this House can estimate whether the situation continue to be an emergency only if we have the datum and be aware of the effect of what be be propose today . we need to ensure that what the Government be do be the right thing , but we also need to know what further step they be take . we must address the systemic issue in the criminal court , because these failure be fail victim on conviction in the first place . the Probation Service be also a critical part of this . I want to add that I watch the maiden speech in the other place of the new Minister for Prisons , Parole and Probation , and I be encourage by what I hear . the Liberal Democrats be clear that cut reoffending must be at the heart of the Government ' s plan to end the prison crisis . we know that prison be in crisis — they be overcrowded and understaffed , and they be fail to rehabilitate offender — but in order to prevent and reduce reoffende we need to ensure that we be improve the provision of training , education and work opportunity in prison . we should be consider a through - the - gate mentorship programme and introduce a plan to improve the rehabilitation of people leave prison . the Liberal Democrats want to implement a presumption against short sentence of 12 month or less to facilitate that rehabilitation in the community . as the Minister in the other place recognise yesterday , if we do not have the right condition in our prison , we be only make our prison a place where people learn how to reoffend , rather than prevent it . we need the Probation Service to have the resource it need . we need to improve and properly fund the supervision of offender in the community , with far great co - ordination between the Prison Service , Probation Service provider , the voluntary and private sector , and local authority , and that will achieve saving in the high cost of reoffende . the Liberal Democrats recognise that this be the only option the new Government can take . as I say , I would not go as far as to say that I support what be be propose , but I recognise on behalf of my party that it be the only option leave to the Government at this time . I call Andy Slaughter . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to see you in your new and much - deserve place . I rise to support this difficult proposal from my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary . I make a speech in the King ' s Speech debate two day ago on the subject of prison condition , include overcrowding . I do not intend to repeat the whole of that speech , although it be tempting to do so , especially for the bit I have to leave out , but even by the standard of this place that would probably be push it . however , I would say that my right hon . friend and her team — include the new Prisons Minister in the other place , Lord Timpson — have set out with a clear and serious intent to solve the problem leave by the previous Government . I be afraid we see from the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , exactly why the Conservatives get we into this mess . there be no attempt to be accountable — he do not allow one intervention during that speech , which I think be almost unknown — and we can understand why . it be because there be no answer to the question that can be put to the Opposition . they have leave our prison in an absolutely disastrous state : at 99 % capacity for the past 18 month . it be a complete dereliction of duty . there be acute capacity pressure , and the impact assessment say that if we continue without take this action , " prison would shortly run out of place and the justice system would no long be able to function as intend , e . g . the police would be unable to make arrest and the judiciary may not be able to impose immediate custodial sentence . " what an indictment of any Government . if the hon . Member think that the Labour Government be now go to have to release 5 , 000 prisoner they would not want to release , how would he describe the fact that the previous Labour Government have to release 80 , 000 prisoner they do not want to release ? if that be really the good the opposition have get , I understand why the shadow Minister do not take any intervention . the Conservatives have plenty of money for the Rwanda scheme and other gimmick over the past 18 month , but they have no money , no resource and no intent to deal with this , and we have hear the reason for that : they think they would win vote by leave prison in a crisis situation . I be afraid that be another miscalculation . it be true that this be not an easy decision . I be reassure by what my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary say and by the SI ' s support document , in that recall will continue as before , the length of sentence will not change , sexual and serious violent offence be exclude , and the intention , contrary to what the Opposition allege , be that this will run for no more than 18 month . those be all important safeguard . it be also true that , although there will of course be cost saving , this will put pressure on the Probation Service . the explanatory memorandum state : " there be a package of measure to alleviate Probation pressure include limit Post - Sentence Supervision to non - Multi - Agency Public Protection Arrangements … eligible offender . " so there be consequence here . there be consequence for post - custody accommodation service , as we have hear , which be not work terribly well at the moment . there be also consequence for the police if there be situation of reoffende or recall that need to be deal with . this will mean a reduction , from September onwards , of a minimum of 5 , 000 prison place for a period of time , and that be simply necessary . that be not really debatable , and I think that be probably why the opposition have not debate it today . it be not possible for this to continue . I hope this short - term measure will be successful , and I think it will be . I hope the safeguard will be in place and will be secure . I be also encourage by what my right hon . Friend say about the long - term prospect . we have to address the prison crisis over the long term in this country . we have to reduce the number of people in custody by reduce reoffende . it be good that we be build modern prison to modern standard , but I would like to see those modern prison not supplement but replace some of the disgusting and disgraceful victorian prison , such as Wormwood Scrubs , which until a few week ago be in my constituency . I advise all member who do not have a prison in their constituency or who do not regularly visit prison , irrespective of their interest — if they be attend this debate , they must have some interest — to go and look at the condition that persist , because they be inhumane and intolerable . that be not just a matter for staff , inmate and other who work in prison ; it be a matter for all of we as citizen , because we be not rehabilitate prisoner , but let they out on to the street to reoffend without any support . the need for today ' s SI be an indication of just how low the previous Government have bring the system . this be a national crisis . I have no doubt that it be one of the reason for the previous Prime Minister call an early election , because they simply could not face the consequence of their own action . thank goodness we now have a Government who will grasp these nettle firmly and resolve the issue . I say to my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary , who I know be passionate about this , that this be not about just a short - term fix ; this be about a long - term change in how we use the criminal justice system in this country , all part of which be in crisis at the moment . if we can get into a virtuous spiral , rather than the downward spiral we have be in for the last 14 year , there be hope to improve the court system , access to justice , and the service provide , include for victim , and to deal with the crisis in our prison . it be a genuine pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker — congratulation on your new role . I welcome the new Front Benchers to their position , include the Lord Chancellor , whom I have know for a number of year . I congratulate she on take up the post , as well as the Opposition Front - Bench team . it be right — this have marginally be touch on — that the first duty of any Government be the protection , safety and security of the public . the state have to manage many measure , sentence and crime , and collectively we have a duty to ensure that the british public be protect . alongside robust measure on counter - terrorism and back our armed force , we also have amazing intelligence service that form part of the matrix that the Lord Chancellor will now become familiar with , as well as keep our street safe by invest in the police and the criminal justice system . part of that mean that the most dangerous , harmful , serious , persistent offender should be in prison and keep off the street in order to keep the public safe , and it be important that we have the right deterrent . those on the Government Front Bench be clearly make a great deal of play about the role of the previous Government and the decision make in the last Parliament , but it be tell that one of the first piece of legislation that this Government be seek to pass be one that basically consider the early release of 5 , 500 prisoner in a matter of week . I have look at the impact assessment — the Lord Chancellor will be familiar with it — and I note that it give option 0 and option 1 . I understand the situation that she have be ask to look at , but in her closing remark I would like to hear what alternative be consider , other than the blanket scheme . the Lord Chancellor touch on the previous Parliament , and for the record , in the previous Parliament we see Labour mp campaign to block the removal of foreign national offender from be deport from our prison . we see they oppose the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and the tough sentence that be introduce for sexual and violent offender — I will come on to the release of some of those offender shortly . Labour Members oppose life sentence for people smuggler in the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , which we know be make a difference . the release of 5 , 500 prisoner , and reduce the time that most offender stay in custody from 50 % of their sentence to 40 % , will cause concern for the public , particularly victim of crime . I would like to ask the Lord Chancellor about some specific area . she have touch on they , but I would like she to expand on they . in the early release provision , clear offence such as sexual or domestic abuse offence have be list in the schedule . she have outline community order and tagging , but it be important , particularly for woman who have be victim , to know and understand what provision will be put in place for they . there be also offender responsible for racially aggravate assault , and the real harm that come with offender with past conviction for sexual offence or perpetrator of domestic abuse , who might be serve time in custody for other offence and who could be free early . what we know — the Lord Chancellor will know this — be that those type of perpetrator do not just offend once ; they have a whole litany of historical aggravate offence . we can not simply release those people out into the community , because those blanket offence do cause problem . she be well aware of the cross - party nature of the debate on support for victim over the past decade . I have speak about a victim Bill , as have she , and it be about how we can work to achieve that . there will of course be impact on wide service — this have already be raise , in particular by the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) — and I would like to ask about the impact on our police , probation and housing service . there be no clear plan in the impact assessment . the Lord Chancellor say in her statement that that will come and that official be work " at pace " — I have no doubt that Opposition Members will hear a lot of that term from those on the Government Benches . the paper publish with this order give no indication of how local authority , and which local authority , will be particularly affect by the early release scheme . it be important for local authority , and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government in particular , to publish that information with the Ministry of Justice . the Lord Chancellor have speak passionately about the transparency she will bring on data release and number , and I urge that we should have that information soon rather than later . a Labour Member also mention homelessness that result from this measure , particularly in the City of London , and we see that already . that be a local authority duty , and statutory duty be in place where we know such thing need to be manage . there will be , and already be , pressure on housing stock , and ask the Government to publish a list of local authority that will be affect be vital . there be also implication for family and individual on housing register who will now be worried about the implication for they while they have be wait patiently on housing list . there will be pressure on other part of the criminal justice system . what resource will we put into the criminal justice system ? will resource be redirect ? what about police officer who will now be tie up monitor offender on early release , and deal with those who reoffend ? the right hon . Lady have already speak about reoffende and breach of condition that will mean someone go back to prison , but how will that be manage when police officer will be take away from police activity ? perhaps I may politely say that clarity be require on such specificity for local authority and police force , and our police and crime commissioner will also want to know more about this . I would like to press the Lord Chancellor on the timing around this decision . it have be touch on already , and the impact assessment state : " the Lord Chancellor announce her intention for this change to be temporary . this change will be review after 18 month to ensure it be still necessary . " it would be helpful to be indicative about the concept of the sunset clause — she be familiar with sunset clause ; we have all debate such legislation — and to be clear that this measure will not be permanent . the public , as well as member of this House , need to be assure on that . indeed , all member who be vote today need assurance on that important point . I wish to ask about the reduction in the prison population by 5 , 500 . the impact assessment consider a period over 10 year , and state : " the central scenario assume there will be 5 , 500 few prison place require than would otherwise be need in steady state … over a 10 - year period , the average annual saving for hmpps due to reduce prison running cost be estimate to be £ 219 . 5 m per annum ( 2024 / 25 price ) … over the ten - year period , there would be a transitional benefit of reduce the additional number of prison place that need to be construct , with an estimate benefit of " over £ 2 . 2 billion . that be significant money , and will clearly have an impact on the prison building programme . when the Lord Chancellor make her first speech on prison capacity and the strain , she speak from the new Five Wells prison in Wellingborough , which be build and deliver under the last government . it would be useful to hear more about the implication of that £ 2 . 2 billion . we hear during the general election that the Government be to continue with the prison building plan and programme put in place , and change the planning law , but the impact assessment assume that there will be a permanent reduction in the prison population of 5 , 500 . I would like to hear more about the modelling of future prison place and number . will there be an expansion of exist prison site ? there be plan for a super prison in Lancashire . will that be expand ? alongside that , we need to understand more about the financial impact of this policy and how the Ministry of Justice , the Treasury and the Office for Budget Responsibility will be score this measure in the accounting . the impact assessment suggest a saving of more than £ 2 billion by reduce the number of prison place to be construct , as well as more than £ 200 million a year of saving by reduce the number of offender in prison . it be a balance act , but for clarity , when it come to law and order , the Government ' s direction of travel on keep our street safe and the point I have make , we need to know from the Lord Chancellor whether these saving will be bank for the forthcoming fiscal forecast from the Ministry of Justice , the Treasury and the OBR , especially with the Budget and the comprehensive spending review come in the autumn . the Government have afford the House 90 precious minute to debate the early release of 5 , 500 prisoner . from where I stand , the prison building programme , just by this impact assessment , look as if it be be reduce and cut . I be worried that will put the public in grave danger , and it be right that we continue throughout debate — probably post recess , now — to discuss this matter . this be one of the first legislative act of this Government . it will have implication for public confidence in law and order . I do not need to expand on that ; the Lord Chancellor be well - verse in all this . we have to be cognisant of the impact and what this measure mean for victim . we should focus on that and the wide functioning of the criminal justice system . the Lord Chancellor will know that in the previous Parliament , Operation Soteria in particular look at the integration of policing , the criminal justice system , the court system and the prison system to give confidence to victim of the most abhorrent sexual abuse . will this proposal have a knock - on impact on some of those key programme ? I would like to have some answer from the Lord Chancellor . transparency be important , and she have speak about it in this debate . I have grave concern , as I know do other on the Opposition Benches , about public safety and security , as well as the wide implication for housing , prison , probation , the police , law and order , and public safety . I call Naz Shah . may I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on take your space , even more so as a female Muslim in this House of Kashmiri heritage ? it give I great pleasure and pride to see not only a female Muslim Deputy Speaker of Kashmiri heritage , but also a Lord Chancellor who be the first female Muslim of Kashmiri heritage in that role . I be sure the whole House and the whole country share our pride in celebrate Britain , the House and democracy at their good . I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor for all her work to address this issue , pick up the mess leave by the previous Government . I would welcome a bit of humility from the shadow Minister . the reason we do not vote with his Government ' s policy be precisely because they do not have a plan and they do not know what they be do — otherwise , we would not have to clear this mess up on their behalf . the people recognise that , and that be why we be have to deal with it . I make a request to the Lord Chancellor that , during her review , she accept an invitation to visit Bradford West , and the muslim woman in prison project , which support muslim woman in prison and their return out into the community . we all recognise the disparity of service and rehabilitation when it come to people of ethnic minority heritage . that be an open invitation . once again , I thank the Lord Chancellor for give huge consideration to the sentence she be propose to reduce and make sure that we be still protect the public , which the previous Government fail to do , by ensure that we keep serious offender out of that category and be do the good we can do for our country . I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have only three brief point to make . first , we need an honest debate in this place about the purpose of prison . it be true that prison exist to protect those who otherwise might suffer harm — we incarcerate people because they be dangerous — but prison also matter for the reason of punishment . to incarcerate somebody who have do something wrong be to deprive they of their liberty to punish they . we should be straightforward that most of our constituent believe in just retribution . they do not spend their time , like so much of the liberal establishment do , agonise about the circumstance of criminal ; they be more concerned about the circumstance of victim . Prison work for that reason above all else . it be a deprivation of liberty , endure by those who deserve to endure it . my constituent , and I suspect those of member from all part of the House , will be outrage by the idea that some of those people will now be let loose on our street . I accept that there be exception set out in the proposal before the House , but I have to say that have the previous Government introduce this measure , I would have vote against it , and I will vote against it today . I table amendment along with the former Home Secretary , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , and many other colleague that would have far alter these provision . I will not go into those in detail , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I suspect you would not allow I to do so , but I advise the new Lord Chancellor to take a look at they to see what further step can be take to mitigate this unfortunate circumstance , for that be the least we can do . my second point be about the specific of this proposal . it have already be say that the way of deal with the prison population be twofold in essence . one be to reduce the number of people on remand by improve the throughput of people from arrest to trial . the second be to reduce the population by deal with foreign national offender . remand prisoner represent about 20 % of the population . foreign national offender now number , as the Lord Chancellor will know , in the many thousand . we can take people out of the system by do those two thing , and we can also build more prison . I accept that the previous Government should have do more , but this government should look at urgent prison building . we be able to build Nightingale hospital at a stroke , so why can we not have Fry prison build as at least a temporary measure to accommodate people who would otherwise commit further crime ? my final point , which have be make repeatedly — I be be brief , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I know you will want I to be so , and I want to support you as much as I can in your new role — be simply this : if this be a temporary provision , as the former Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) just say , why be there no sunset clause ? it be all very well say there will be a review in 18 month , but a sunset clause would mean that the measure have to come back to this House for further consideration . that be the difference between something write in the legislation and something promise in the form of a review . I have no reason not to believe the promise of the Lord Chancellor — I take they at face value — but let we have some substance around those promise by build a sunset clause into the legislation . that would , at the very least , show the good faith that be a necessary component of good governance . Prison work . let we build more prison and say to our constituent that we will no long pander to the predilection , preoccupation and prejudice of the liberal establishment , but will instead speak for they , for what they believe be what I believe : many more wicked people should be incarcerate for much long . that be what they would say on the doorstep in any constituency ; it be about time that it be say here , and I be delighted that it now have be — by I . I call the Lord Chancellor to make her closing remark . with the leave of the House , I will respond to the debate , but let I begin by say what a pleasure it have be to do my first piece of legislation in this House under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . you be a fellow Small Heathan Brummie , and it be no doubt a great first for the community from which we both come . I be astonish by the shadow Minister ' s remark . he say that he be deeply trouble by the measure , but he and his party , who form the previous Government , be not trouble enough to prevent the crisis from occur in the first place . he know full well that they have leave no other option on the table but that which we be take , and anyone with access to a newspaper can tell that , until about three week ago , this be their own plan . I be afraid to say that that be the modern - day Tory party : opportunistic , cynical and unfit to govern . the shadow Minister ask a number of question , most of which I have address in my opening remark . let I remind he — he should know — that our prison be at over 99 % capacity . the exact number will fluctuate on a daily basis , but everyone who work in criminal justice know that our prison will overflow by September unless we pass this measure . on the sunset clause and exclusion for domestic violence - link offence , I will take no lesson from the Tory party . it bring forward the end - of - custody supervise licence scheme , and that have no exclusion for domestic abuse . I raise that issue many time when I be sit on the Opposition Benches , and the then Tory Government simply stonewall and do not give any answer whatsoever . I be pleased to see that Opposition Members have finally discover that we should treat victim of domestic abuse differently from how we have previously , but they should have apply that to the measure that be their Government ' s policy until just three week ago . I will also take no lesson from the Tory party on the sunset clause . I remind they that the end - of - custody supervise licence scheme not only do not have a sunset clause but be in fact extend by the previous Tory Government from 18 day to 35 day and then to 60 day . we then have the ignominy of the increase to 70 day that come without any announcement whatsoever . so when I say that the Government will be different from the last one , I mean it . we have already be far more transparent than the previous Government ever be or could have dream of being , and that be the vein in which we will continue . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) raise reoffende , which be also bring up by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , as well . it be critical that we get the rate of reoffende down . let I turn to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . I be slightly perturb that I find myself in agreement with his first point — I agree that prison be about punishment — but when 80 % of offender be reoffender , something be go horribly wrong within our prison . every time we have somebody come out of our prison estate who be a well criminal than they be when they go in , that create more victim , and we be let our public down if we do not get the rate of reoffende down . cut reoffende be a strategy for put victim first and cut crime as much as it be about help those prisoner become well citizen . I hope that he will take my comment in the spirit in which they be intend , which be a good - faith response to his remark , and reflect on the necessity of the country finally get its shocking rate of reoffende down and put the public first . I return to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Southgate and Wood Green . ipp prisoner be not include within this measure . I know that he and other in the House have support the possibility of a resentencing exercise , which we do not support in opposition . that be not the Government ' s policy , because while I do want to make progress on IPP prisoner , we can not take any step that would put public protection at risk . it be a delicate balance act , but we will start with the measure pass by the previous Government in the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 on the change to the licence period and the action plan , which we will publish as soon as possible . where possible , I want to make progress where IPP prisoner be concerned . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) make a really important point on the cost . there be a cost to the action that we be take today , but there would be a much big cost to inaction . if we fail to take this measure today , we will face the total collapse of the criminal justice system . that catastrophic disaster have to be avert at all cost . let I turn to the comment of the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . I be pleased about how she have approach the debate . let I assure she , particularly on matter of national security such as they touch on my responsibility as Lord Chancellor , that we will always take a cross - party approach and look to work together in the national interest . the right hon . Lady raise important point about the join - up between different service provider , whether that be police , local authority or other . I have already chair a criminal justice board and we already have an implementation taskforce that will work over the summer to ensure that all the different agency be work together so that the roll - out in September be successful . my Ministers will be work with Ministers in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that join - up occur . that be an important point , and I will be take a close personal interest in the implementation . could the Lord Chancellor expand — probably not in this debate but over the summer or even in September — on the local authority ? the point about prison building will not go away . I believe that we need more prison , we should be build more prison , and that should come forward from the previous prison programme . there be the issue about finance — the £ 2 . 2 billion that I refer to — but will she commit to publish a list of the local authority she be proactively work with , which may be those from the previous prison building programme , where we will see more prison ? I will happily return or write to the right hon . Lady in respect of specific local authority . the impact of prison capacity be uneven , but it be also in flux on a daily basis . on money and the long - term supply of prison place , we will be publish a 10 - year prison capacity strategy , which will deal with the long - term plan that our Government have to increase supply of prison place . we do indeed need to build more prison , because , as be say , the present stock be not fit for purpose , but if we build more prison to increase capacity , we will just end up with more prisoner . all the evidence suggest that prison population be a supply - lead industry , and more prison mean more prisoner . I remind the Lord Chancellor that her colleague in the other place have make it clear that a third of prisoner should not be there . what will she do to look at alternative to prison for the sad and wretched , not the cruel and dangerous ? let I be clear to the hon . Gentleman and the House . the Government will ensure that we have the prison place that we need so that we can protect the public and deal with the supply - side issue we have inherit from the previous Tory Government , who do not build the 20 , 000 place that they say would be ready by next year ; they deliver only 6 , 000 . in addition to provide the prison place that the country need , we will deal with the problem of reoffende , because we be determined to ensure that we do not keep create more and more victim . that be a strategy for cut crime and for put victim first . the Government have take action where before we come inaction . once this action take effect from September , we will be able to end the immediate crisis in our prison , give we time to introduce desperately need long - term measure . this have be welcome by voice from across the criminal justice system , from senior police officer to my predecessor in this role . it be the only safe option available to we , and to choose to act otherwise would leave our country in a state of unconscionable risk ; one that I be not willing to take . for that reason , I commend the draft instrument to the House . question put . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Keir Mather Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Victoria Atkins Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Rebecca Harris John Hayes Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Alan Mak Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 323 , Noes 81 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Requisite and Minimum Custodial Periods ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 17 July , be approve . business of the House ( today ) order , that at today ' s sit the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motions in the name of Lucy Powell relate to ( i ) Code of Conduct and Guide to the Rules and ( ii ) Modernisation Committee not later than two hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order , or at 5 . 00pm , whichever be the later ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on those motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Jeff Smith . ) Code of Conduct and Modernisation Committee before we come to the motion in the name of the Leader of the House , I remind the House , in relation to motion no . 4 , of the requirement for hon . member to declare any relevant interest or benefit that might relate to the proceeding in which they be participate . I must draw attention to the fact that the motion on the code of conduct and guide to the rule appear on the print Order Paper with a small error . paragraph 2 ( a ) of chapter 4 to the guide to the rule refer to " advice about public policy and current affair " , which appear incorrectly as " advice about public policy and public affair . " that have be correct online and a corrigendum have be issue . the motion on the Modernisation Committee will be debate with this motion . I inform the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) to the Modernisation Committee motion as list on the Order Paper . I shall call member to move their amendment formally and explain proceeding far at the appropriate time . Standing Order no . 22c require the Clerk of the House , as accounting officer , to set out the expect financial consequence of motion that have direct consequence of additional expenditure of at least £ 50 , 000 . I should inform the House that a memorandum on the financial consequence of the Modernisation Committee motion be available in the Vote Office . I call the Leader of the House to move the first motion , on code of conduct and guide to the rule , in the form it appear online . I beg to move , that , with effect from 25 October 2024 , paragraph 2 of chapter 4 of the Guide to the Rules relate to the conduct of member be amend to leave out : " a ) advice on public policy and current affair ; b ) advice in general term about how Parliament work ; and " . with this we shall discuss the following : motion 5 — Modernisation Committee — that — ( 1 ) there shall be a Select Committee , to be call the Modernisation Committee , to consider reform to House of Commons procedure , standard , and working practice ; and to make recommendation thereon ; ( 2 ) the Committee shall consist of not more than 14 Members , of which 4 will be the quorum of the Committee ; ( 3 ) member shall be nominate to the Committee by a motion in the name of the Leader of the House ; ( 4 ) unless the House otherwise order , each Member nominate to the Committee shall continue to be a member of it for the remainder of the Parliament ; ( 5 ) the Committee shall have power to send for person , paper and record ; to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House ; to adjourn from place to place ; to report from time to time ; and to appoint specialist adviser either to supply information which be not readily available or to elucidate matter of complexity within the Committee ' s order of reference ; ( 6 ) that this order be a Standing Order of the House until the end of the present Parliament . Amendment ( b ) to motion 5 , in paragraph ( 2 ) , leave out " 14 " and add " 18 " . amendment ( c ) to motion 5 , in paragraph ( 2 ) , after " member " insert — " which shall include the chair of the Procedure Committee , the Committee of Privileges , the Committee on Standards and the Administration Committee ; the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards may take part in proceeding of the Committee , may receive Committee paper and may give such other assistance to the Committee as may be appropriate ; " . amendment ( d ) to motion 5 , in paragraph ( 2 ) , leave out " , of which " . amendment ( e ) to motion 5 , after paragraph ( 4 ) insert — " ( ) the Committee — ( a ) when it announce an inquiry , shall consider relevant report from the Procedure Committee , the Committee of Privileges , the Committee on Standards and the Administration Committee and shall invite those Committees to report on the issue within the term of reference of the inquiry ; ( b ) shall not consider matter that fall within the function of the House of Commons Commission , as set out in the House of Commons ( Administration ) Act 1978 ; and ( c ) shall seek the view of the Speaker on matter within its order of reference ; ( ) the recommendation of the Committee shall be subject to a motion in the name of the Leader of the House ; " . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election as Chairman of Ways and Means . I look forward to work with you in the come week . over the past two week , it have be fantastic to watch so many new member hit the ground run in represent their constituent , and it have be a pleasure to see return member resume their business , bring their considerable experience and wisdom to the Chamber . this new Parliament offer a chance to turn the page after the sorry and sordid record of the last . we face a crisis of trust in politic , politician and Parliament . as we know , it be a great privilege to sit in this House : to be an MP represent an opportunity to change the country for the well . underpin that privilege be a set of solemn responsibility . chief among they be the responsibility that we all have to embody the high standard of public service . those standard be articulate in the seven principle of public life , which apply to all those who operate in public life and that inspire and inform the code of conduct for mps . it be perfectly reasonable for a constituent to expect that when they cast their vote in a general election , their candidate will be send to this House to serve they , not themselves . an MP ' s first priority , therefore , must be to their constituent , and the rule of this House must reflect that obligation . this Government be elect with a mandate for change and the Prime Minister pledge to return we to a politic of service . today , we take our first step to deliver that . in line with the Government ' s manifesto commitment , I be propose a tightening of the rule on second job for member of this House in the first instance . under current arrangement , member must not provide , or agree to provide , pay parliamentary advice . they must also not undertake service as a parliamentary strategist , adviser or consultant . the rule prohibit member from advise , in return for payment , outside organisation or person on , for example , how they may lobby or otherwise influence the work of Parliament . however , the guide to the rule contain exemption . the exemption mean that advice on public policy in current affair , and advice in general term about how Parliament work , be not consider parliamentary advice . during the election campaign , I make a solemn promise to my constituent that I would not take on a second job , apart from be chief of staff to my two - year - old son . do my right hon . friend agree that it be time to end public policy and current affair advocacy role , so that we all have time to spend on the great job of all — represent our constituent ? my hon . friend make a very good point . that be exactly the purpose of the motion . I hope he have time to do his other job of be a great parent . however , the exemption potentially act as loophole , allow a Member to use their privileged position and knowledge for personal gain . that may encourage not only a potential conflict of interest but a conflict of attention , with too much of a Member ' s time and energy spend on thing other than constituency or parliamentary business . I be very grateful to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards for his advice on this matter and for the diligent provision of guidance to all member on adherence to the code of conduct . the motion put an end to the exemption . it send a clear signal to the public that an MP ' s first priority be to their constituent and to the country . it be a first step . these change shall come into effect three month from the date this motion be pass , which will allow member the chance to make any necessary change to exist contract or arrangement . I welcome the statement that the Leader of the House be make . do she agree that be an MP be an honour and a privilege , and should be a full - time job ; and that the problem of second job go wide than the limited issue she be address in her motion today ? an example of the sort of behaviour that in my view should not be permit would be an MP act as manage director of a financial service company headquarter in a tax haven , in which case they might have a conflict of attention , potentially assist people to avoid tax when of course we should all be serve the public interest . will she act urgently to put forward further measure to prevent the type of behaviour that I have draw attention to ? the hon . Lady make a really good point . absolutely , this be about conflict of interest and conflict of attention . as I have make clear , and will far make clear in my opening remark , this be a first step . we need to look at some of those other area to give our constituent confidence that this will eradicate the kind of behaviour that she describe . this House have consider such issue before . most recently , the Committee on Standards review the code of conduct in the previous Parliament . the independent Committee on Standards in Public Life also look at the matter several time , issue recommendation in 2009 and in 2018 on mps ' outside interest . I thank they for their work . today ' s change form part of an ongoing conversation that I trust will continue as we begin to rebuild public trust in this institution . we will go far . the other motion before the House will establish a new Modernisation Committee of the House of Commons , fulfil another manifesto commitment . the Committee will be task with drive up standard and address the culture of this House , as well as improve working practice . I be one of many newcomer to this Chamber . I first spend time in the Chamber on Friday afternoon , when some irregular thing happen . do the Leader of the House agree that it be the conduct of member in this Chamber , as well as issue around second job and conduct outside , that have give politic and all of we here a bad reputation ? if we be to solve these problem , we should recognise that when people turn on the television or watch Parliament live , they want to see people listen respectfully — not heckle , shout out or call name . the hon . Gentleman make a really important point . part of what we be begin today be about restore respect for one another , both in Parliament and in politic . I have be really encourage by the enthusiasm that new member like the hon . Gentleman have for this agenda . I hope he will continue to be involve . the Modernisation Committee will also look at reform to make Parliament more effective , bring recommendation and respond swiftly to the view of the House . it be intend to bring a more strategic lens to these matter and , where necessary , address the pace of change . this be not to cut across the important work of exist Committees , but to highlight interdependency and facilitate close working . I describe it as a clearing house , draw on all the good work of other Committees . the Government want to build consensus for any reform , and bring the House together by consult widely . the deliberation of the Committee will be transparent and publish , so that the thinking that have inform any recommendation for change be make clear to member — a very important aspect of the Committee . I intend to listen to colleague , regardless of their party affiliation , as we take this work forward , draw on the diverse range of view and experience represent in this House . I turn to the amendment on the Order Paper . I hope that I can provide reassurance to member about some of their concern . the exist Committee structure in this House — include the Procedure Committee , the Committee on Standards , the Committee of Privileges , the Administration Committee and of course the House of Commons Commission — will have a vital role to play in the work of the Modernisation Committee . indeed , it will draw heavily on their work and their recommendation . however , the pace of change that we have witness in recent year demonstrate the value that a Modernisation Committee will have when it come to enact recommendation . the risk - base exclusion of Members , improvement to the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme and the introduction of proxy vote to cover serious long - term illness or injury be prime example of the glacial pace at which we often move . the purpose of the Modernisation Committee be not to duplicate the important work carry out by exist Select Committees , but rather to highlight and consider their recommendation in the round . as the Standards Committee note in its May 2024 report , the standard landscape in Parliament bring together an array of actor and regulatory body whose arrangement be often consider in isolation from one another . my hope be that the Modernisation Committee will be able to bring a broad perspective to these issue , and will work closely with the exist parliamentary Committees whose report and evidence will shape its work . the new Committee will have the ability to collect evidence , and for Chairs to guest on it where relevant . I will be sure to rely on the expertise and experience of all member . will my right hon . friend explain the relationship between the Modernisation Committee and the ethic and integrity commission that be be set up ? I thank my hon . friend , who have do much good work in this space over the year . the Government ' s ethic and integrity commission will focus more on Government member , Ministers , civil servant and other , whereas the work of the Modernisation Committee will focus particularly on the House of Commons . there may be a relationship at time , but they will have a different remit and scope . I hope that answer my hon . friend ' s question satisfactorily . as the propose Chair of the Committee , I reassure the House that my door will always be open to member and staff across the House . I see it more as a task and finish Committee — that be a good comment that the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) make to I the other day — that will take a strategic look at recommendation from other body and Committees , but not duplicate their work . I note amendment ( a ) , table by the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , which be about the engagement of small party and their role on the Modernisation Committee . I hope that I have go some way towards provide reassurance on aspect of that issue . I want to be clear that I want member across the House to be hear , but the Committee also need to be an effective body that deliver change . if the Committee be to work swiftly and generate momentum behind proposal for reform , it need to be of an appropriate size . if each party be represent , as the hon . member ' s amendment require , the Committee would have to grow considerably . that would not be proportionate with other Committees of the House , which I do not think be reasonable . give the likely breakdown , do the Leader of the House understand that only three party will be represent on the Committee ? it would be possible to flex that slightly , and have voice from more than just three party on the Committee , while still keep it relatively small . I understand the hon . member ' s concern . it be an unfortunate case of the mathematic that apply across all Select Committees . on other occasion , in past Parliaments , her party have benefit from the formula that be use . beyond formal membership , however , I reassure the House that I want to commit to regular and meaningful engagement with any and all party represent in this House and with member who want to contribute . this , to I , seem a little bit unfair . a political party that be represent in this House and get over 4 million vote at the last election will have no representation whatsoever on these Committees , yet a party that get 3 . 5 million vote will have plenty of representation on they . do the Leader of the House think that be fair ? as the hon . Gentleman know , his party have four other member in this House ; the House be consider in term of its member , not in term of the popular vote . what he describe be a consequence of formula that be long - stand and have bring about effective representation on many Select Committees . I understand the mathematic — one party have over 400 member , another have more than 120 , another have 72 , and so on — and I understand how committee be make up , and how the Government and the opposition work . however , when it come to more parochial thing , and while I be ever mindful that the Government have the right to a majority , do the Leader of the House agree that the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the Scottish Affairs Committee and the Welsh Affairs Committee should include more representation from regional area ? perhaps there be an opportunity for a wide debate on the make - up of Select Committees . I can see some of the issue , but I reiterate that the Modernisation Committee need to strike a balance between be effective and make fast progress . it need to be representative , but not too big . I reiterate to the small party my commitment to have ongoing , meaningful engagement , and to have they come regularly to the Committee to give evidence and view . of course , the proceeding of the Committee will be fully transparent ; we will have call for evidence , and our deliberation will be regularly publish for the whole House to see . my hon . friend the Member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) have just make a very good case , and have ask you a specific question : be it fair ? from your lack of reply , I think it be implicit that you agree that it be not fair . you have it in your power to change that , as a matter of fairness and of listen to small party . if you do not agree with that , I think constituent all over the country will find it absolutely astonishing . order . will member refrain from use the word " you " ? you be speak through the Chair . what be fair be that this House be make up of member of Parliament who be elect by their constituency , and Select Committees or Sub - Committees be make up of proportion of those member . that be fair , and it have always be the case . as an incoming government with a clear mandate for change — a clear mandate to rebuild trust in politic and restore respect for Parliament — and with a very large majority in the House , we could have proceed without try to take the House with we , not set up a committee but simply table various motion on a diktat basis , but I do not want to take that approach . I want to take the House with we and to represent Parliament as a whole — all party and all Committees . that be why I commit myself again to enable the small party to have regular , meaningful engagement with the Modernisation Committee on issue of particular concern to they . give that this be a Select Committee that you be set up — [ interruption . ] I be sorry . give that the right hon . Lady be set up the Committee specifically through a motion on the topic of modernisation , be this not an opportunity to demonstrate a tiny bit of that modernisation by ensure that the small party — not necessarily one member of each of they — be represent in its make - up ? would that not serve as an indication of good will towards the concept of modernisation ? as I have say , the Committee will engage with the small party regularly and meaningfully . let we say that there be one more place for a representative of a small party . who would that place go to ? would that Member represent the various view of all the small party ? would they represent Reform , the Greens , the Scottish National party , or the Democratic Unionist party ? everyone would have strong and differ view about that . when it come to represent properly the range of view across the small party , the commitment to ongoing , meaningful engagement , regular dialogue and invite all the small party to address the Committee on a regular basis reflect that range of view far well than have one representative on the Committee . I also want to reassure the traditionalist among we . as I have say previously , this be not about alter the tradition and custom of this place ; rather , the Modernisation Committee will build on the work of its namesake , appoint in early Labour Administrations . those predecessor Committees achieve great reform in the way in which the Commons work : the introduction of Public Bill Committees , the arrival of Westminster Hall debate , and change in sit hour and recess date . all those reform improve scrutiny , and help to make Parliament a more inclusive and family - friendly place of work . I would welcome suggestion from member of further change that it might be useful for the Modernisation Committee to consider in order to make Parliament a more effective , modern work environment that well reflect the country that it serve , and to help the public understand well the work that we do and the fact that we be here to serve they . let I turn to the Committee ' s initial work . I hope that , as one of our first step , we will look far into the question of member ' outside employment . we will aim to consider , in conjunction with the Committee on Standards and the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , whether any more change to the rule or the code be necessary , particularly change intend to ensure that a Member ' s private or personal interest do not impede his or her principal duty to the House . however , the scope of the Modernisation Committee will extend far than second job . beyond reform of the standard system , the Committee will consider the culture , procedure and working practice of the House . Parliament ' s ability to hold the Government to account be essential . our goal should be to maximise the time available for scrutiny of the Government ' s legislative programme , while also ensure that Back - Bench voice remain prominent and effective . our constituent be well serve when parliamentary time be spend both on robust scrutiny of legislation and on debate in which the issue that matter most to member and to our constituent can be raise . I look forward to hear the view of all Members when assess how we can well achieve that , and whether change be require . make Parliament accessible to all Members be of paramount importance . over the year , good work have be do on seek to tackle the inappropriate and wrong behaviour that we have all hear about and suffer from . the Speaker ' s Conference in the last Session do important work on the condition for Members ' staff . I be also grateful to Paul Kernaghan for his recent review of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , and to Alison Stanley , whose review precede his . we will look at take his recommendation forward . as recently as May this year , the Committee on Standards produce an excellent report on the standard landscape in Parliament , bring together analysis of , and recommendation on , all element of the standard system . those piece of work be essential , and they can not be consider in isolation ; we need to take a strategic approach to these issue , so that gap in the system do not develop . today we have an opportunity to set out , clearly and firmly , the standard to which we should all aspire in this House — the standard that the public expect of their elect representative . we have an opportunity to put politic back to service , and signal an immediate end to the politic of self - interest through a tightening of the rule on second job . we have an opportunity to establish a body that will examine the House in the round and bring it up to date . I look forward to this debate , and I be grateful for the huge amount of interest that the Modernisation Committee have already garner . it be a great pleasure to address you by your new title , Madam Deputy Speaker . you and I be first elect in 2015 , and it be a real pleasure to see the first of the 2015 intake assume the Chair to preside over our proceeding . I be delighted to be at the Dispatch Box for your first appearance in the Chair — the first of many over the come year and , I hope , the come decade — and I congratulate you on your well - deserve election . as the Leader of the House say at the beginning of her eloquent and detailed speech , standard and integrity be critical to this House of Commons . we be the crucible of our nation ' s democracy . our constituent have send we here to represent they , and they be entitle to expect the very high standard of behaviour from we as Members of Parliament . we be fortunate that our standard in public life be high than those in many other country , but there be no room for complacency and we should strive constantly to improve and perfect the standard meet in this House . that be a duty we owe the public . I broadly welcome the initiative take by the Leader of the House , but I want to make a couple of general point before turn to some of the specific matter before we . first , it be very important that these reform , or indeed any reform , command public confidence and be see to be conduct for the good of reason . it be important for we to proceed on a cross - party basis , because that will show that the measure be be take not for party - political reason but for the good of reason — as I be sure they be — and will ensure that they stick . if there be a broad cross - party consensus , whatever reform be make will endure and survive beyond any change of Government in the future — hopefully the near future from my point of view , but not , I suspect , from the point of view of the Leader of the House . with that in mind , and give the need to involve all party — we be talk not just about this Parliament , but potentially about Parliaments for decade to come — do my right hon . friend agree that amendment ( b ) , in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , be entirely reasonable and , indeed , address some of the issue that have be raise by the minor party , because it would potentially bring they into scope ? my right hon . friend make an excellent point , base on his long experience of the House . Amendment ( b ) do indeed address some of the point make in early intervention . I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Leader of the House for the consultation we have have in the past three week follow our appointment . she have be collegiate and constructive in our conversation , and I look forward to those conversation continue in that spirit . but I might be permit one very small grumble : the motion we be debate today be lay relatively late on Tuesday evening . under the rule , it could have be lay later , so I appreciate that it be lay a little in advance , but we do not have a lot of time to discuss potential amendment between the two of we , or indeed with other party . I will make a request for the future . if we be consider motion that touch on these issue and seek a cross - party approach , it would be really helpful to have some more time so as to be able to hold discussion between the Leader of the House , I and other party to see whether we can improve the motion . I know that we have discuss this in general term , but it be only when we see the detail of the motion in black and white — for example , the one on the Modernisation Committee — that we can discuss it in proper detail . I would appreciate have a bit more time in future , so that we can discuss that between we . that might avoid the need to table amendment , and it would enshrine the consensual approach that I hope she will take . let I turn to motion 4 , which be list on page 7 of today ' s Order Paper under " Business of the Day " . as the Leader of the House have say , the motion remove two exemption that exist in paragraph 2 of chapter 4 of the guide to the rule , which mean that member will not be able to be pay for provide advice on public policy or current affair , or general advice about how Parliament work . that be a broadly reasonable proposition that we be happy to support . I have two question ask for clarification , which perhaps she will address in she sum up . first , if a member be pursue a pay activity that be not specifically to do with offer advice of the kind mention — for example , they might be a lawyer or do work with a trade union on a pay basis — and the thrust of the work be not to do with that sort of activity , but they briefly undertake activity that might fall into the definition , how would the Leader of the House view that ? be there an absolute and complete prohibition , or be there some sort of materiality test that she would expect the Standards Commissioner to apply ? it would be useful if she could provide clarification from the Dispatch Box . my second question be raise by a colleague . on occasion , member may be pay for a party political position or a trade union position , in the course of which they might give advice . to give a specific example , it have be the case in the past that the chairman of the Conservative Party have be pay not as a Minister , but by the conservative party . would the new rule preclude that person , or indeed someone be pay by a trade union — probably on the labour side — from offer the Conservative party or a trade union advice on public policy matter ? I would be grateful if the Leader of the House could shed some light on how she envisage that work . broadly , however , we support the change and will not be oppose they — in the new spirit of cross - party working , which we be nervously embrace . for complete clarity , it be worth mention that there be a third exemption in the rule that the Leader of the House do not refer to : limb ( c ) of the relevant provision , which be contain in paragraph 2 of chapter 4 . Limb ( c ) allow Members of Parliament to be pay for make medium appearance , journalism , write book , and deliver public lecture and speech . for the sake of complete clarity , it be worth say that the motion before we do not make any change to that third limb — the Leader of the House will tell I if I have get this wrong — so member will continue to be able to be pay for those activity . she might just confirm that , but it seem a fairly clear consequence of the fact that only limbs ( a ) and ( b ) be be delete , and not limb ( c ) . I will now move on to motion 5 , on the Modernisation Committee , which appear on page 7 of the Order Paper . in principle , the opposition will work constructively with the Leader of the House and her colleague to achieve some of the objective that she set out in her speech — we have no objection to the principle of the new Committee . of course , we want to ensure that whatever proposal it bring forward be carefully scrutinise . on hold the Government to account , there be lot of thing about the way this House operate that be very important for opposition party big and small , but also for Back Benchers , include Government Back Benchers . I be sure that Labour member have hear a bit about private member ' Bills , which provide a really good opportunity for Back Benchers on both side of the House to bring forward what be typically quite specific Bills to bring about a change that the Government might not have time to legislate for . back Benchers can bring forward a Bill to do something that be important to they , and I think we all want to ensure that be protect . similarly , the Backbench Business Committee set out the business for Thursdays . Government and Opposition back Benchers can go before the Committee and organise a debate on a particular topic , which I do as a Back Bencher a few year ago . it be a really good way of make sure that an issue that matter to Back Benchers get air not in Westminster Hall or on the Committee corridor , but right here in the Chamber . I remember organise a debate on the persecution of Christians around the world , which would not necessarily have be debate on the Floor of the House ; use that mechanism , it be debate . Westminster Hall also provide a great opportunity to raise issue of concern to a Member or their constituency . opposition day debate be very important as well , because they offer Opposition Members a chance to hold the Government to account . there be a whole load of area that we want to ensure be protect for Government and Opposition back Benchers , and for Opposition party big and small . I be sure that it be not the Leader of the House ' s intention to undermine the effectiveness of the exist mechanism , but if they be consider by the Modernisation Committee , we will collectively need to ensure that the right of Back - Bench Members of Parliament and Opposition party be properly protect . I want to speak to the amendment table in my name and those of my right hon . friend , and I hope that the Leader of the House can offer some assurance that go beyond those she have give already . if she be able to offer such assurance , I will not move the amendment , but if her assurance be insufficiently robust , I will move the amendment and we will vote on they . I should tell Members that , typically , business of the House like this be not whip . we will not be whip conservative Members , who be free to vote accord to their conscience . I hope the Government be adopt the same approach and allow Government Back Benchers to exercise their conscience . it be a long - stand tradition that the business of the House , which this be , be not whip . we be each vote on the motion as individual member of Parliament and not , I hope , accord to a party political direction hand out by the Whips Office . that be the approach we be take , and I hope it be the approach the Government be take as well . to be clear , the purpose of the amendment be not to impede or frustrate in any way the objective that the Leader of the House set out in her speech , which we accept . in principle , we support they and will work constructively with she and her colleague , but some concern have be raise by my colleague — some of whom may speak later — who have previously serve on some of the Committees , such as the Committee on Standards . in the last Parliament , the Committee on Standards be chair by the former Member for Peckham , Harriet Harman . she be the Mother of the House , and a very distinguished and highly respected Member for many year . the Committee have do a lot of work in this area , and it be quite complicated . the way that the standard regime operate be not straightforward , and the question be complicated . when Harriet Harman chair the Committee , she spend a lot of time think about this issue and publish the report to which the Leader of the House refer . various exist committee be relevant here , particularly the Procedure Committee , the Privileges Committee , the Standards Committee and the Administration Committee . they be all important Committees of the House and have all do important work in this area . they be all elect by the House , and at least one of they , the Standards Committee , have external member — I think one of they be a retire chief constable . the Committees have an element of independence , and I be concerned that the establishment of the Modernisation Committee might replace , cut across or in some way supersede or impede the work of the other House Committees , which be highly independent . with the amendment , I have try to make a couple of thing clear , so I be look for explicit assurance from the Leader of the House on the follow point . the first assurance that I be look for be that if the Modernisation Committee be go to consider a particular matter , it will consider all the previous work do by the four Committees that I have mention — the Procedure , Privileges , Standards and Administration Committees — and will commission the relevant underlying Committee to do a fresh report on the matter in hand and report up to the Modernisation Committee . I think that be what the Leader of the House have in mind , and it be what she say to I privately , if I understand she correctly , but I would be grateful if she could be explicit and make it clear on the record that that be how she intend it to work . the second important assurance be that the view of the Speaker will always be seek and fully take into account on matter that be relevant to the work of the Committee . the Speaker be elect by all of we — unanimously , as it happen — and his view and the view of the Deputy Speakers be important . the third assurance be that matter that would ordinarily fall to the House of Commons Commission will not be usurped , as it be , by the Committee . the Leader of the House say to I previously that the function of the House of Commons Commission be not define , but they be in the House of Commons ( Administration ) Act 1978 . in amendment ( b ) and ( c ) , I propose that the chair of the Procedure , Privileges , Standards and Administration Committees be add to the Committee so that it have 18 member rather than 14 . that would make sure that there be an opportunity for a small party to serve in that capacity and that the expertise of those Chairs come directly to the Committee . in addition , I propose that the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards attend the Committee . they would not be a member , because they would have to be a Member of Parliament to be a member of a Select Committee , but an attendee or an observer , so that the commissioner could offer his or her opinion on the matter before the Committee , receive paper , and give other assistance as require . all those amendment be design to ensure that the exist Committees be properly take into account and involve , and that their voice be hear , because they be important committee with a lot of experience . if someone look at some of these issue at first blush , such as second job , they might think that they be quite straightforward , but often they be not . there be all kind of question about people who have family business or a farm , or people who practise medicine or be doctor , that require careful thought . I do not want the work that have be do previously and that will be do in future to be lose . I be ask the Leader of the House to give explicit assurance . in her opening speech , she give general assurance that those Committees have a vital role , and that the Modernisation Committee would draw heavily on their work and not duplicate what they do , but I be ask for the specific assurance that I have just set out . if she can give all those assurance , or a substantial amount of they , I will not move the amendment , because I want to proceed in a spirit of cross - party harmony if at all possible . the opposition stand ready to work constructively on these issue to ensure that Parliament ' s reputation remain the high of any Parliament anywhere in the world . Harmony be in all of our gift . it be great to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be my first time in the Chamber with you in the Chair and I wish you all the good for the future . I welcome this Government motion — it be great be on the Government side for the first time in 14 year — which fulfil another manifesto pledge within only a few day of the election . the introduction of a Modernisation Committee have already cause a lot of interesting discussion about its make - up , who should or should not be on it and why . its introduction be important because standard and integrity in public life be important . trust in politic be at an all - time low and trust in politician be at rock bottom . we need to change that . the introduction of the Committee , together with other element in the Labour party manifesto , will make a huge difference . I will focus on second job . we should never forget the responsibility and obligation that come with be an elect representative — a politician and Member of Parliament — in this mother of all Parliaments in the mother of all democracy . we should never forget what the general public put into we and their belief that we be their representative and voice in here . many people who do not have a voice , particularly in deprive area , put everything they have into the fact that their MP represent they fairly and justly in the Commons . that be important . be an MP be not a hobby ; it be not something that people can just fancy do . perhaps people want to come on a Monday afternoon or a Monday night and leave as soon as they can , and they plead with the whip to get away , but this be a full - time job plus . if it be not a full - time job plus for people , my view be that they be not do the job . if someone be elect as a Member of Parliament with 70 , 000 - odd constituent , that be a full - time job . I can not understand how other people have be able to take up other job and occupation , and see be an mp as something that top up their massive salary elsewhere , but that be what have happen and continue to happen . I be sure hon . member present will agree that when we be knock on door during the election campaign , people would often answer — 99 . 9 % of they be very polite — and say , " you ' re all the same . " I be tell a few time , " you ' re all liar . whatever you say beforehand , once you get into the Commons , you ' re all liar . " I take great exception to that , but that be the general public ' s perception . they think that mp be greedy , they be liar , they be all the same , they want to make as much money as they can , and they be not bother about the people they represent . that be what we have to try to clean up . I plead with my right hon . friend the Leader of the House to make that a priority of the Modernisation Committee . we have to clean up politic . we be not all the same . the vast majority of people in the Commons and who be elect be genuine , decent people who be there to represent their constituent and make life well , even though that be difficult at time , but there be a huge lack of faith in politician and politic . many people feel as though Members of Parliament have a decent wage , but member with second job allow the perception and the narrative that mp be selfish and greedy to continue . I be sure there be mp who be greedy , but the general perception be that everyone be the same . when I be work at the pit , I never in a million year thought that I would be on a salary of £ 91 , 346 . it be a fortune — an absolute fortune — and we have to work for it and for our constituent . the average UK salary be £ 35 , 828 — in the north - east , where I live , it be under £ 30 , 000 — so £ 91 , 346 be a fortune . we be pay fortune , man ! we be nearly millionaire . I know that be not true , but I make the point . in area of great social deprivation , no matter what we say or do , where we perform or where we do not , how many surgery we hold and how much casework we have , we be see as " just one of the mps in London " , who do not care once we get that train , bus or car to the House of Commons ; it be as if we become different people . in 2023 , the Office for National Statistics deem 51 % of household in Northumberland to be suffer some form of deprivation . last year , Sky News report that mp earn £ 17 million from second income . that be a lot of money when many people we represent use food bank , claim in - work benefit and be suffer greatly as a consequence of the cost of living crisis , cause by 14 year of destruction by the Conservative Government . the figure of £ 17 million from second income be enormous . the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , earn £ 4 . 8 million from write speech in his last year in the previous Parliament . I have a simple question : how can someone make £ 4 . 8 million during a parliamentary year , when they be suppose to be meet constituent ? what spare time might they have ? I conclude that , in many way , such an elect representative be not do what they should be . another former Prime Minister , Theresa May , make £ 2 . 5 million in the last year of the previous Parliament . exactly the same issue arise . a former Conservative Minister earn £ 6 million as a commercial barrister since be elect to Parliament . People should not be make fortune as lawyer when they be suppose to be in the House , determine legislation and represent their constituent . member of Parliament should be in the House represent the people who vote for they , whether on education matter , employment or the cost of living crisis . there be enough to fill five day a week from 9 o ' clock in the morning till 10 o ' clock at night . where any MP can find spare time be beyond I . I hope the Leader of the House can guarantee that clean up politic be the motion ' s no . 1 priority . as I have say , I believe that most people who be elect to the House be here for the right reason . by the way , mp have to have skin like rhino because we get hammer right , left and centre , regardless of what we vote , or do not vote , for . the motion be a great way forward and I be delighted that my right hon . friend the Leader of the House have table it . it will address the issue I have raise . we lose credibility through the sleaze that happen , particularly during covid . People believe that all mp be make but not obey the rule . we must change that perception . the Modernisation Committee , along with other measure in the labour manifesto , will go a long way towards restore trust with the general public . it be much need . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair — congratulation on your election . it be important to be here today to debate what we can do to improve politic . the public who send we here expect that . we know that something need to be do and I hope that the Government will live up to their aspiration to offer change . last week , the Leader of the House be kind enough to mention our previous work together on the exclusion ban . I be pleased to confirm that I , too , look forward to continue those cross - party effort in this Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) will speak about second job later , so I will focus my remark on modernisation and the Modernisation Committee . the Modernisation Committee that the previous Labour Government set up be not uncontroversial and we should recognise that the Committee will not have an elect chair ; it will be chair by the Leader of the House . however , as an Opposition party member , I have have positive engagement with the Leader of the House . it be important to ensure that the Committee act in the good interest of the House and do not supersede the remit of other Committees , such as the Committee on Standards , which have lie member at its heart . the motion be about restore trust in this place and in our system . we know that that be need just by look at engagement in the recent general election . Voter turnout overall be only 59 . 8 % — only six in 10 register voter either think it be worth engage with our democratic system or could do so . in many constituency , the proportion be even low — in some , it be as little as four in 10 . it be not hard to see why , when we look back at the last Parliament . I be a new Member in 2019 . we come in straight off the back of the division of Brexit . normal life and Parliament be then pause during the height of the pandemic . just a matter of week after we be back in this place follow the second lockdown , the former Member for North Shropshire , Owen Paterson , be find by the House to have breach the rule on lobbying , and the then Government try to change the rule in relation to House business to allow he to escape censure . follow that , I secure an emergency debate on standard under Standing Order No . 24 . for new Members ’ information , in order to secure an emergency debate , 40 member must stand up in support of the application . I be pleased to say that , give the increase in liberal Democrat number , I could muster the number from my own party now , but in 2021 I be pleased that mps from the now Government as well as from the opposition support my application for a debate on standard . look back at that debate in preparation for today , I see that I close with the following remark : " this be about trust . it be about trust in the Government that they will represent the House and not the Government in House business , and it be about trust in we as our constituent ' representative . that trust , once erode , be very difficult to regain . trust in our politic have be erode in this past week . that include all of we here in this House . on behalf of all our constituent , we must do all in our power to do our good to rebuild that trust as we take the next step on standard . " — [ Official Report , 8 November 2021 ; Vol . 703 , c . 81 - 2 . ] sadly , that do not happen , despite our good effort . personally , I be proud that my amendment to our Standing Orders to stop mps vote on their own censure motion , as the former Member for North Shropshire do , be pass . with the support of the Leader of the House , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) and the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , who be in her place , the amendment to the exclusion motion be pass early this year . I hope that that decision by the House send a message about the seriousness with which we in this place view safe - guard . despite some improvement , we still have rule breaking — and , indeed , law breaking , bully , sexual harassment , and a string of serious question about conflict of interest . it be important to recognise that we be all tarnish by that brush . the Government ' s proposal be also about make this place a modern workplace . it be easy for people to forget that this be not just a place where politic and policy happen , but a place of work — not just for we here in the Chamber , but for hundred if not thousand of mps ' staff , as well as the House staff who support we . indeed , as we start this new Parliament with a new intake of MPs , the churn of staff will be significant . website advertise political vacancy be currently overflow with opportunity , but I can not help but wonder after the past few year whether people will want to work here . can this be see as an attractive workplace , where people can be not only safe , but secure , and where they can forge a meaningful career ? I be sure that we all know people who we think be capable — in fact more capable than ourselves — of be effective mps , but who take the decision not to put themselves forward for election . on that , I hope the Leader of the House will agree , perhaps as part of the Committee ' s work or just generally , to implement the Jo Cox Civility Commission recommendation in relation to the abuse of elect representative . I have the pleasure of be Chief Whip to 71 mp , have welcome 57 new colleague to these Benches . I know that the bad behaviour of some cause a lack of trust in all of we . I be pleased to hear the Leader of the House commit the Modernisation Committee to implement the independent review of the icgs publish in May . I want to draw the House ' s attention to the third recommendation , which say that if someone make a complaint to a party about something that fall under the remit of the scheme , the party have to pass it on to the icgs to be deal with , rather than attempt to resolve it internally . I be very aware that the violin for whip be very tiny , but those whip do have a difficult role to play in provide pastoral care and look at discipline . for I , it make perfect sense to ensure that , where there have be inappropriate behaviour , there be a guarantee of an independent review . I be pleased to say that what be propose in this recommendation be already part of the new Liberal Democrat parliamentary party Standing Orders , and I would be happy to sign a public declaration accordingly on that basis . I also urge the Leader of the House to commit to implement the next step recommend by the Speaker ' s Conference , which report last year . I have the privilege of sit on the Conference and can attest to the time and cross - party work that go into that report . these package of change together would create something much close to a modern human resource system , which will benefit staff and mps . I think the public do accept that mp be different , in that we be not employee , but they also expect we to adopt modern hr practice where we possibly can . the underlying point for I , and something that I hope our new MPs can take on board among the excitement and honour of be in this place , be this : our job be unusual , but that do not make we special or different when it come to uphold basic standard . I say that as a former police officer who be also not an employee during that time . it do not give we free rein to treat other poorly . we must not break the rule ; in fact , we ought to be aspire to a high standard — to be exemplary — because of these unusual and wonderful job that we get to hold and do for our constituent . we also need to look at the practice and support in place to allow member to carry out their work effectively . I be disappointed to hear , for example , that the nursery in Parliament can offer place only from 2026 . give that increase number of new Members with family responsibility be come here , we need to ensure that we give people the support to carry out that really important job to the good of our ability . let I return now to the motion and the question of what the Modernisation Committee should be consider . modernisation be not just about standard and behaviour and make this a 21st century workplace , but about make this a modern system fit for policy decision to be make for the benefit of our constituent . we want a workplace that ensure that democracy work . the first proposal that I ask the Leader of the House to consider might not be in her party ' s good interest as it want to power through its first 100 day , but in the spirit of put our democracy first , I urge she to be open to revisit the Wright reform and review the determination of House time . the 2009 report recommend that a House Business Committee , make up on a Cross - Bench basis , be able to decide how much time be give to scrutinise Government legislation . that may sound boring and technical , but it could be revolutionary . the Government would still be able to set the agenda and bring forward their manifesto and their legislation , but they could not tell we in the opposition how much time we should take to properly scrutinise thing . the Wright reform be aim at end sleaze and make Parliament and the role of Parliament more meaningful . those goal remain ever more relevant today . implement this last change from the Wright reform would make mps more powerful in represent their constituent . it would connect we in a meaningful way , and allow the public to see that mp be work on their behalf . it would certainly improve debate — something that I be hope will improve in this new Parliament . it would make we more open and allow the public to truly understand the nuance and difficulty that have to be handle in legislation . indeed , in that way , it would also benefit the Government . a modern Chamber of representative also need to be fairly elect . how many time have we hear someone sigh on the radio or in the pub and moan that politician be all the same — that nothing ever change , and that one candidate will inevitably win , so there be no point in even engage ? there have be so much optimism in Parliament since the general election and new Members have be return . I want to ensure that we spread that optimism out to each and every voter — a sense that they matter and that politic and Parliament be for they . a fair voting process be the absolute basic step that we need to take . I hear the comment of the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) early in the debate . I assure he that the liberal Democrats have , for the first time ever , deliver a number of mps that reflect the vote share that they have in the general election . we will await the outcome of the Electoral Commission ' s report on the most recent election before we draw any conclusion , especially when it come to voter turnout . in conclusion , my party and I look forward to engage far with the Modernisation Committee , and urge the Leader of the House not to narrow its remit . modernise this place be a big job , but it be surely a worthwhile one . if we can get that right , we rebuild the trust that underpin our democracy , and make the law and policy that come from this place all the well for it . I now call Jack Abbott to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak . let I say congratulation and welcome to your place . I have be move and inspire by so many contribution over the past few day , and it be an immense privilege to be make the first maiden speech of today . I also offer my good wish to the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) , who will also be make his maiden speech today . not only be he my neighbour , but he be represent a place that be really close to my heart . I be incredibly proud to be make my maiden speech as the new Member of Parliament for Ipswich . however , this be not my first contribution in this House . yesterday , I ask a question at pmq , highlight the huge potential that Ipswich possess but say that , after 14 year of neglect , we desperately need Government support to help revive our town centre . however , corner of social medium instead focus on a very gentle joke I have make , when I point out that my home county of Suffolk once again have a premier league football team , unlike our friend north of the border in Norfolk . one keyboard warrior in particular take umbrage at that . his name be Ed Balls , and apparently he use to work here . he say that Norwich have have a 15 - year unbeaten run in the Old Farm derby — a run that will now , sadly , be extend due to Ipswich be promote to the premier league and Norwich get knock out in the play - off last season . I be sure that that will be a bitter pill for Town fan to swallow as they visit Anfield , the Tottenham Hotspur stadium , the Etihad and Old Trafford next season . Ed ' s tweet also represent my most significant celebrity beef on social medium since Steve Brookstein — yes , the first winner of " the X Factor " nearly a decade ago . Ipswich have a rich and long history — so rich and long , in fact , that I be go to use this as an opportunity to settle an old score . now that Colchester have vacate its town status , I be lay claim to Ipswich be the old continuous town in England . no , I have not check that with the House of Commons Library , as I might have be give an answer that I do not want to hear , but two minute of search online tell I that I have a decent chance of be right — and I presume that , as I be now state it as fact in Parliament , it now become true . Thomas Wolsey be arguably Ipswich ' s most famous son , and we in Ipswich have be celebrate his legacy throughout the past year through the Wolsey 550 . Wolsey do not always get the praise he deserve . climb the greasy pole will not win you many friend — something to which member of this House will attest , I be sure . however , his story , rise from humble beginning to become one of the most powerful statesman in England , be remarkable , and he leave his imprint on our town too . Ipswich can also lay claim to Ralph Fiennes , Constance Andrews , Thomas Gainsborough , Jean Ingelow , Brian Eno , Edith Cook and even Richard Ayoade , to name but a few . my job over the come year will be ensure that kid grow up in Ipswich today get their chance to make their dream a reality , so that when my successor come to make their maiden speech , they have a few more name to mention too . I would also like to mention my predecessor , Tom Hunt . while an MP , Tom often speak about be neurodiverse , and be open about challenge that he face grow up . he look to tackle some of the stigma that still exist , and that be an incredibly powerful thing for a Member of Parliament to do . on election night , Tom charitably mention our share commitment to improve the life of child with special educational need and disability , an issue that I have campaign on for many year in Suffolk . I will now use my role to fight for those family here in Westminster . the SEND crisis be a national issue , and I know many colleague from across the House will have hear countless story about the struggle that family have have to endure to access the service that should be theirs . in Suffolk , we have have a decade of the most grotesque and repeat failure . I remember five year ago , after another damn report , the front page of our local paper , the East Anglian Daily Times , show the face of just some of the child and family who have be so badly fail by a broken system , with the heartbreaking , desperate headline , " we must be hear " . as ITV ' s report show today , so little have change half a decade later . those child and their family have still not be hear . this be not just about the educational impact on child , immense though they may be . it be also about the exhaustion , desperation and isolation that family suffer , day in , day out ; the month — year , even — battle for an education , health and care plan ; the time spend wait by the phone , or checking email , hope that they might finally get some positive news ; and the energy they have to find just to try to navigate this broken system , fight through tribunal , and submit mountain upon mountain of new documentation and information , all while try to care for their family . as a Labour Government , we can not let the suffering of vulnerable child and their family continue . it will be my personal mission in this place to fight this inequality and injustice . if I can make one final plea on this issue , as a former teaching assistant and proud GMB MP , I urge that when we talk about the crisis in retention and recruitment of teacher , we include specialist and support staff in the conversation . they be crucial to break down barrier to opportunity , too . I would like to touch on another subject that be incredibly important to I : the energy transition . this be not just an environmental necessity but an economic imperative . it can boost our economy , reduce bill , ensure great security and deliver the well pay job that we need . with GB Energy , we will be able to achieve that . if Britain be to become a world leader in this area , as the Labour party have pledge , I want Ipswich and Suffolk to be right at the heart of this national renewal . why should we not be ? over the come year , thousand of job will be create in new nuclear at Sizewell , in offshore wind and in solar . I be unapologetically ambitious for our town and our county . I do not want those job and that investment to drift away elsewhere . I want kid grow up in Ipswich , or people look to retrain and upskill , to get those secure , well pay job . I want local business to benefit from the billion of pound that will flow out of these project , and I want our area to be the centre of national excellence . that be our future , if we be brave enough to grasp it . as a Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament , it be particularly welcome to I that our commitment to community energy sit at the very heart of this mission . the great - ever expansion of community energy project , deliver a million new owner of energy , will be genuinely transformational , and as a proud Co - operative party MP , I will champion the growth of such project , so that local people will benefit from our green transition too . many of we be just a few week into our new role , and as this debate be about second job , I will be honest in my contribution and say that I have no idea why or how any Member of Parliament would have a second job . we all know what I be talk about . to be the Member of Parliament for Ipswich be the great privilege of my life , but to be frank , it be not like any other job . I think about Ipswich , and its beautiful , award - win park ; its waterfront look absolutely glorious on a sunny day ; the music festival that we have now , which I would have love to have be to as a teenager — I be only slightly old now than I be then — and the fact that our town once again have a premier league football club . I might have mention that already . I think about Suffolk too , the place I move to 25 year ago . I still hang out with my friend from Debenham high school . I still play for the same cricket club , the mighty Eye and District cricket club — my batting just as terrible , and my bowling just as slow , if not slow . I still want to walk around Fram castle , and along the beach of Southwold , Aldeburgh and Dunwich . I still pop into Coes , a family business found nearly 100 year ago , and I love nothing well than eat at the Lighthouse restaurant , or drink an Adnams or an aspall in the Woolpack or the Greyhound . I be still surround by my friend , my family and my neighbour , not to mention a million happy memory , have be shape and inspire by they for nearly a quarter of a century . I have no doubt that I will make some mistake along the way , and I know that there will be some time when my constituent disagree with I , but know that everything that I do here will be out of service , friendship and love for my home , Ipswich and Suffolk . I call Lincoln Jopp to make his maiden speech . I join other in welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for give I the chance to make my maiden speech , and to contribute to this important debate on second job , speak for the people of Spelthorne . I pay tribute to all member who have make their maiden speech , in particular my immediate predecessor , the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) . he be clearly go to be a fearsome and fearless advocate for his constituent , base purely on the fact that he be prepared to risk the opprobrium of the people of Colchester , the people of Norwich , and perhaps most impressively of all , Mr Ed Balls . I congratulate he . I thank the House staff for the impeccable welcome that they give we all as new member . I be , for quite a long time , a soldier , so I be bring up on the mantra that two minute early be three minute late . it be therefore no surprise that at five minute to 7 on the Monday after the election , I be the first in the queue at the top of the ramp . I see two armed police officer , but there be also a Doorkeeper , resplendent in his uniform of morning coat and gold badge , and his beard . not know what to expect , I approach he . he say , " good morning , Mr Jopp . " I be beyond impressed . he continue , " you might not recognise I under this beard , sir , but I ' m Matt , and I be with you in the Scots Guards in Afghanistan . " I go from be impressed to be deeply touch . have have the chance to listen to a large number of maiden speech , I have notice that when the name of the Member and their constituency flash up on the screen , that be sometimes meet with a knowing smile and sometimes not , depend on the name of the seat . it be like that excellent episode of " yes , Prime Minister " when Jim Hacker and Sir Humphrey Appleby start discuss somewhere call St George ' s Island . both of they suggest that they have some form of superior insight into St George ' s Island , but it quickly become apparent that neither of they have any idea where on earth it be . lest my maiden speech become something like that , I think that I ought to tell the House where Spelthorne be . Spelthorne be everything south of Heathrow airport until the Thames . we be in the administrative county of Surrey and the historic county of Middlesex . we be inside the M25 but not in London . crazily , you can use an Oyster card to take a London bus there , but not the train . we be outside the clutch of the Mayor of London ' s dread ultra low emission zone charge , but accord to the Church of England , we report to the Bishop of Kensington . hon . member might think that all those special circumstance would give rise to something of an identity crisis for the people of Spelthorne , but not a bit of it , because no one who live there actually call it spelthorne anyway . instead , people say they live in Staines , Stanwell or Stanwell Moor ; in Ashford , Shepperton or Laleham ; in Halliford , Charlton Village or Sunbury . by the way , all hon . member sit in Parliament today be here thank to a notable resident of Stanwell : Thomas , later Lord , Knyvet . it be he whom the King dispatch to search the cellar beneath Parliament , result in the capture of the treacherous gunpowder plotter . clearly , Lord Knyvet ' s ability to navigate this place be a great deal well than mine . I pay full tribute to my immediate predecessor as Member of Parliament for Spelthorne , Kwasi Kwarteng , who have represent the constituency since 2010 . hon . member will not be surprised to hear that his name come up frequently on the doorstep in the last general election . Kwasi be a much - respect Back Bencher and Minister , as well as be a charismatic performer in this Chamber . a strong advocate for small business in Spelthorne , he instigate the Spelthorne business plan competition , now in its 10th year . spelthorne people be some of the hard - work people in the country , so it be appropriate that I should be make this speech in a debate on second job ; many of my constituent have they . I too have have a selection of job . as a friend of mine recently remark , " Blimey , Lincoln , 25 year in the Army and 10 year in private equity . where do you see more violence ? " now I be in Parliament , with the huge honour of represent the people of Spelthorne , and I be strike by just how important that be , particularly at the moment . I be sure that all member want to be a strong voice for their constituent and a local champion for their area , and I do too , passionately . however , we be also here to fulfil our second job : to make thoughtful contribution to the national and international debate on issue of great moment , none of which be more important , in my view , than the defence of the realm , give that the world be the most dangerous it have be since the end of the cold war . we be have a defence review , which will take time ; but time may be run out , and the right course of action — increase defence expenditure — be all too clear now , let alone in 12 month ' time when the review report . I gently suggest to all member of this House that to govern may be to choose , but it be also to act , and that the answer to autocracy be rarely more bureaucracy . to finish on a light note , I hope that hon . member now know a little bit more about Spelthorne . they be welcome to visit any time , whether to hear about the work of BP ' s global technology centre as it seek to decarbonise the world , or to see the large film studio in Europe and the second big in the world after Hollywood . they might instead be interested in a flutter on the horse at Kempton Park — not that we on the conservative side of the House be allow to bet any more — or maybe just to potter along the Thames like " three Men in a boat " . Madam Deputy Speaker , I say I would finish , and I do not make promise I can not keep . I make one promise to the people of Spelthorne . it be that if they elect I , we would move to the constituency . thank solely to the effort of my amazing wife Caroline , we pick up the key to our new home in Spelthorne on Tuesday , and will have move there by the end of the weekend . that be the first promise I have keep to the people of Spelthorne . I look forward , as I serve they , to there be many more . I call Shaun davy to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a real privilege to make my maiden speech with you in the Chair , and a delight to follow the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) . I can not promise that my speech will be as witty as theirs , but I do support a proper premier league team in Manchester United — [ interruption . ] I have lose the House already . it be an honour to make my maiden speech in this House as the very proud MP for my home town . Telford be where I be bear and raise , and where I be now bring up my own family . I be Telford and proud . I begin by talk about those mp I follow . my predecessor , Lucy Allan , work on many notable cause . I particularly pay tribute to her tireless work in respect of the Post Office scandal , and to her constituency team , who have support the resident of Telford over the past nine year . I would also like to mention and thank my friend and mentor , my immediate labour predecessor David Wright , who serve our town and this House with passion for 14 year . I also want to pay tribute to the first person to hold the job of MP for Telford , a great supporter and crucial adviser to I , who now sit in the other place , Lord Bruce Grocott . Lord Grocott lead I on a tour of this House in 1997 , when I be just 11 year old — right hon . and hon . member may be forgive for think that I look too old to have be 11 in 1997 , but that be what 14 year in local government do to you . Telford be a new town in Shropshire , one that have grow significantly since its designation as a new town in 1963 . a town with a proud history and strong local identity , we be home to the west midland ' only world heritage site , the Ironbridge Gorge , the true birthplace of the industrial revolution . we have long - establish community such as Madeley , Oakengates and Dawley , which be record in the Domesday Book , and other proud community too . I be of course a son of Telford , but also of Dawley , the birthplace of Captain Matthew Webb , who in 1875 become the first man to swim the English Channel . his monument in Dawley High Street say , " nothing great be easy . " Telford be great , but over recent year we have certainly not have it easy . despite the challenge it have face , just like our own world champion boxer Liam Davies , Telford have continue to punch above its weight . we have deliver housing growth and economic growth . we have outstanding education , with outstanding primary school , first - class secondary school , and we be home to the Thomas Telford school and to state - of - the - art far and high education facility , with Telford College and Harper Adams University in the centre of Telford . we have a record number of green and protect space . in fact , if hon . member would like to visit Telford , join the 3 . 2 million people who do so each and every year , they will notice just how green we be . we be home to million — and I mean million — of tree . we be know as a forest city . in Telford we be also incredibly proud to be home to some of the big defence company . right now , Telford resident be work on tank destine for Ukraine and distribute essential equipment , from uniform to morphine , that will be deploy across all part of the world to our brave armed force . our relationship with the armed force be deep and strong . we be home to over 8 , 000 veteran — my own family have serve in all three service — and our council become one of the first authority to be award a Ministry of Defence gold accreditation for our work on the military covenant . for the past eight and a half year , I have serve as leader of Telford council , and we have do a lot over that time . we have regenerate our town centre , with the creation of Southwater . we have be a business - win and business - support council : we be home to Besblock , which provide brick to almost every house build company across the country , and to Aviramp , which provide airport across the world with boarding ramp ; and we also provide wheelie bin to most household across the country . we have keep our council tax among the low of all council in England . we have support child with outstanding child service , deliver exceptional adult service , and be leader within our sector . as well as be a council leader , I have lead Labour in local government . I have chair the cross - party Local Government Association . indeed , I be proud to be the first former chair of the LGA to sit in this House rather than in the one down the corridor . I welcome to the House hon . member and friend who have serve as councillor and council leader . in Telford , as in the rest of the country , poverty and child poverty be increase . it be heartbreake that almost one in four child be live in poverty . for I , that be not an academic issue ; it be personal . I be in poverty as a child . I remember switch the light off in our council house and lay on the floor as debt collector bang on our door . I remember the embarrassment of queue for a blue free school meal ticket as many of my friend get their pay yellow one . that deep - down impost syndrome remain and be very much with I today . for too long , town such as Telford have have their contribution to housing and job growth bank , but the investment and support that be so desperately need to break the cycle of poverty have not arrive . despite our housing growth , we have not have the investment need over the past 14 year — the closure of our A & E and the relocation of our consultant - lead woman and child ' s unit be example . I say to my constituent that I will never stop fight to bring service back to Telford . I pay tribute to Telford Crisis Support , which work with the community and provide 238 , 624 meal last year — up by almost 21 % on the year before . it also provide clothe , nappy and the very basic of life , offer a vital lifeline to family . family come in many different shape and size . from the age of 11 , I live with my nan , Betty , who be and be my guide star . although I live with my nan from such a young age , my parent have always be there for I , too . I be lucky to have people like my great aunty Dil , who provide I with the financial support that mean I could be the first person in my family to go to university , where I read law and qualified as a solicitor . I be so lucky to have my own family now . I be a proud dad and stepfather to Evan , Millie and Owen — my wife Elise and I see no distinction in our family . part of the role of councillor be to be a corporate parent . those in state care should be consider part of all our family . in Telford , 423 young people be in our care , and we support 249 care leaver . when I be the chair of the LGA , I describe the local government sector as the corporate uncle and auntie of those in care and those who have leave care . what , then , be this House ? what be member of Parliament to those child in state care ? maybe we be the corporate great auntie and uncle with resource , influence and wisdom — just like my auntie . what more can we do to support our child in care ? to child live in council home , in temporary accommodation or in our care , who be pick up free school meal , food parcel and avoid debt collector , I say this : " if I can get here , so can you . " to provide a well future to all our child , we must reform our public sector . yes , for some that be a dry subject , but it be the only way to fix our broken system . reform be vital and prevention be key . the long - term approach to investment — invest a pound now to save hundred of pound many time over — will be important . invest in and focus on the first 1 , 000 day of a child ' s life can lead to well life outcome and massive saving to the public purse . we must always ask ourselves how public service can well serve the public . the answer be so often with the user of those service and those who work in they . when those who have skin in the game be empower and trust , the result be always well . we know that so well in Telford , after the recent work of Holly , Scarlett and Joanne . for too many , our country do not work for they . not only be they disconnected , but they feel a million mile away from this place . that allow other to exploit the void — to divide we . we — all of we — should work together , despite our political difference , to help connect this place to our citizen , so that democracy do not just survive , but thrive . I hope that I can work on that nationally in the come month and year . I thank the people of Telford for trust I with the incredible honour and privilege of represent my home town . I will stand up for Telford and for they . I know that we have a long road ahead of we , but I be committed to the challenge . after all , nothing great be easy . right hon . and hon . member will be conscious that a number of people still wish to get in , so unfortunately I be go to have to put a six - minute time limit on speech from the next speaker . obviously , member make their maiden speech will be exempt from that limit . I call Alberto Costa . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I welcome you to your new position . I also congratulate the hon . member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) on an excellent and very detailed maiden speech . no doubt he will represent his constituent very successfully . I be the only member in the Chamber today who serve on both the Standards Committee and the Privileges Committee in the 2019 Parliament ; all of the other mps , bar one , be no long in the Chamber . the amount of work that we have to deal with in the last Parliament be substantial , onerous and unprecedented . as such , I welcome the comment that the Leader of the House have make and broadly support the motion that she have bring before the House . however , I would like to make a couple of point that I hope she will take in the spirit of assistance in which they be intend . in the time allocate to I , I will briefly turn first to the motion on curb some element of second job as they relate to parliamentary advice . the Leader of the House may not be aware of the background to that proposal and where it first come from . in November 2021 the Standards Committee publish a report — the fourth of the Session — and annex 7 of that report contain comment make by the then Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards . the Committee — myself and my colleague — thoroughly look at the matter on a cross - party basis and conclude that we probably want to recommend the banning of pay parliamentary advice or consultancy . we look at the wording in the House of Lords , because that be the wording that the then commissioner first look at . that wording be broadly identical to the wording that we currently have , so in our May 2022 report we come forward with the proposal that the banning of pay parliamentary advice should align with the House of Lords code . my question to the Leader of the House be this : be it her intention to ensure that the code in the other place be amend , so that we do not have an oddity where , for instance , a labour peer could carry on with the activity that she propose to ban , but an MP in this House would be unable to do so ? that be not the objective of the Standards Committee when we first make our proposal , so it would be very helpful if , in she sum up , she could confirm that the appropriate mirror change will be make in the House of Lords . I will now turn briefly to the other , much more substantial motion . I be sorry that there be a time limit , because I have many thing to say about this motion , but give that I have a very short period of time in which to speak , I will restrict my comment . as the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) touch on , we as a House should remember that the Standards Committee be unlike any other Select Committee of the House of Commons , because half of its member be lie member — people who be not member of Parliament . the total membership of 14 mean that , if we take out the Chair from vote , the lay member have a substantive jurisdiction on that Committee . many of those lie member will undoubtedly be watch this debate . I can not believe that it be the Government ' s intention to create a Committee that will be look at standard — even at a strategic level — that exclude lay member . when the Leader of the House be on the Opposition Benches , she be a strong believer in have lie member on the Committee , so will she look again carefully at her proposal , not only take into account the balance of political party but , importantly , ensure that this new Committee have lie member representation , at least when it be discuss standard issue ? my proposal be that the seven current lay member of the Standards Committee could elect one from among their number to sit on that Committee . the other point I want to make be make by the shadow Leader of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , and I do not propose to rehearse they again . suffice it to say that the Leader of the House say that the Chair of the Standards Committee , the Chair of the Administration Committee and so on would be gueste on to the Committee , but if the Committee be to be an effective body that can deliver change , as she hope , we must ensure that these people be not simply gueste but that experience and knowledge be somehow bring in , perhaps with ex officio member instead of full voting member . I suggest she look again at that proposal , and perhaps make some welcome comment at the end . to conclude , the proposal be a welcome one , but I urge the Leader of the House to look carefully at bring lie member on to the Committee . I call Chris Murray to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a great honour to make my maiden speech as you take your first day in the Chair follow your election . it be also a great honour to follow the excellent maiden speech we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) . they have make excellent and intimidatingly good maiden speech . keep up with they will be a full - time job . the constituency I represent , Edinburgh East and Musselburgh , be geographically small but extremely diverse , comprise city centre , suburb , town and village . it stretch from the historic centre of Edinburgh along the Forth coast , and be unrivalle in both its natural and architectural beauty . it encompass Niddrie and Lochend , hard - work community of people who contribute much but whose talent and industry would offer yet more if opportunity allow , hold back as they be by a lack not only of work but of secure working condition — there be lot of second job there ! organisation such as the Greenhouse Pantry in Craigmillar help people keep their head above water in the cost of living crisis . the constituency be also home to the diverse , vibrant community of Abbeyhill , Southside and Leith Links , full of excitement and ambition but hold back by a housing crisis . Edinburgh have see the sharp rent increase in Europe . through Duddingston and Craigentinny , the seat stretch to Portobello and Joppa , Edinburgh ' s seaside , where group such as the Porty Water Collective be fight the scandal of sewage in our sea . I also represent Musselburgh , the honest toun — perfectly sandwich between capital , countryside and coast — where last weekend I attend the kirkin ' and sashe of this year ' s honest lad and lass , Billy Innes and Eilidh Bonthron . my constituency be home to two university : the University of Edinburgh at one end and Queen Margaret University at the other . this make the seat both intellectually dynamic and young . student and recent graduate make their home there , and their idea , skill and energy make they the engine for my constituency ' s enormous potential . I have be strike by the contribution of these young people . when the pandemic come , they be the group least at risk from the virus , but they unhesitatingly sacrifice so many moment in their life to protect other . arguably no generation have give up so much for another since the war , but to my mind their sacrifice have not be adequately acknowledge , never mind compensate . in this Parliament , we must secure for they well - pay , interesting job in the industry of the future ; decent affordable housing ; and a climate that be not disintegrate before their eye . in the past , event in my constituency have ricochet out across the world . the fiery debate of the reformation and the rational argument of the enlightenment be incubate in my seat in century past . nevertheless , I be convince our good day lie ahead , because my community have all the raw material for a vibrant , dynamic century . the university and their research spin - off , in fintech and biotech , innovative start - up in their hundred , and huge opportunity in the energy transition and green technology be all to be find there . if we be to have the economic growth the Government be aim for , my constituency could be a powerhouse of it . incorporate , as it do , the historic old town of Edinburgh , culture , hospitality and tourism form the economic backbone of my constituency , not least in August , when it play host to the Edinburgh international festival and fringe . be I correct , Madam Deputy Speaker , in think that the convention be that mps must inform another member when they visit their seat ? in that case I expect my mailbox to melt down when everyone come to the Edinburgh festival next month . of course , everyone be most welcome . the Edinburgh fringe be well know for its world - class performance , but also for amateur try to get attention by say something shocking — the conservative leadership contender will fit right in . while my constituency have many castle , theatre and museum , the most important building in the seat , indeed in Scotland , lie at the foot of the Royal Mile in the Scottish Parliament at Holyrood . that be where the lifeblood of the scottish political heart beat , and that be why it be fitting that I make my maiden speech as we discuss how to modernise Parliament . it be safe to say that relation between this Parliament and that one have not be good these past 10 year . that must change . I be hearten to hear in the King ' s Speech an agenda that will address that , just as I be when the Prime Minister ' s first visit be to my constituency . that speak to a new era in scottish politic of respect , constructive engagement and delivery , and I look forward to play my part in it . as society change , so the Parliaments that represent it must change too , both in their member and their practice . this Parliament be break new ground in how it represent modern Britain , not just in have the first woman Chancellor , a woman Deputy Prime Minister , and 190 labour woman mps , but in have more minority , more LGBT representative , and more state - educate mps . I be glad that in the latter two I be add to the tally . my generation grow up with scottish devolution . have two Parliaments be a fact of life for we . with the Scottish Parliament now 25 year old , there be much that this place can learn from Holyrood , and reciprocally there be thing Holyrood can learn from here . no Parliament have a monopoly on modernisation ; it be something to which we must all continually strive . I be pleased to see the Member of the Scottish Parliament for the lothian region , Sarah Boyack , in the Gallery . I have learn much from she , and will continue to do so . let our two Parliaments co - operate and learn from each other , so that they make each other well in synergy and symbiosis , rather than with rancour and anger . let we remember as we modernise here , that this be one of several Parliaments and Assemblies in this land . while I be discuss scottish politic , let I pay tribute to my predecessor . Tommy Sheppard be an assiduous and dedicated constituency MP , and for that he be hold in high regard by many in Edinburgh . in this place he be a dedicated champion of peace and justice in the middle east , and although he and I may take different view on constitutional question , I hope my constituent will find continuity on both those score . I also pay tribute to his predecessor , Sheila Gilmore , who have be dedicate to improve the life of the people of Edinburgh , particularly the poor , for many decade , include five year in this House . her commitment to the community , even year after leave office , be astounding , and rarely have a new Member be so support by a predecessor as I have be by she . the come year will be critical for my constituency . if we can generate economic growth by attract the job of the future , if we can ensure that people who work hard get good wage and decent condition , and if we can seize the opportunity of the energy transition , bring opportunity for the young and take our place as a global cultural capital , then we can achieve our potential . for all its attribute , and give the challenge we face , my community need a government focus on its priority . in fact , it need both its government and both its Parliaments to do that . it need both parliament to modernise to meet the demand of today and to not be distract by the argument of decade past , and member of both Parliaments to learn from each other ' s practice and to spur each other on . it need both Parliaments to compete in claim credit for improvement in people ' s life , not in cast blame for what have go wrong . for my part , I mean to be an MP for use and not for show . everything I do in this place will be aim at deploy the power of government to unleash the untapped potential of my constituency . I call Blake Stephenson to make his maiden speech . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your election and for take your place . I thank the House for the warm welcome to the Chamber . I be grateful to be call to make my maiden speech in this debate on second job and the modernisation of Parliament . it be a tricky , but important subject , so in preparation I think I would flick through " Erskine May " . I pop into the Library the other day and do so , and swiftly fall asleep . I come to the swift conclusion that a bit of modernisation in this House would not go amiss . member will find that I engage in that debate constructively and thoughtfully as we think about how this Parliament and future Parliaments should progress . I first congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) — I have probably not pronounce that correctly , and I apologise not only to he , but to all his constituent — and thank he for that whistlestop tour of his constituency . I think I should take up the offer and go to Edinburgh in August over recess . I thank member for all the excellent maiden speech that have come before we . member have set a high bar , which bode well for this Parliament . I be sure that all newly elect member feel as I do that we have be give a great honour in be elect . I feel that most strongly because Mid Bedfordshire have be my home for 10 year , so I be deeply grateful to the elector who place their faith in I at the ballot box . prior to be elect , I have a 15 - year career in the City , where I be responsible for compliance and conduct , keep overenthusiastic trader and lightning - sharp mind in check and ensure that they stick to the rule — although perhaps not with your aplomb , Madam Deputy Speaker . within the constituency , many people be do fantastic work in public service , run business , farming and investing for the future in their community or their family , or both . I be here to support they all in their aspiration by champion our dynamic economy and opportunity for all . I pay tribute to my predecessor , who be now the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) . he be a Bedfordshire lad who return from London last year to win the long and hard - fight by - election in our county . after work as a math teacher and at the Bank of England , the hon . Gentleman become the first Labour MP to represent Mid Bedfordshire . he should be very proud of that achievement , and of course I will be very proud if he remain the last Labour Member of Parliament for Mid Bedfordshire . except for that recent interruption , Mid Bedfordshire in its various guise have be represent in this place by Whig , Liberal and conservative mp . I have some big shoe to fill . Lord Boyd , who represent the constituency from 1931 , be a lead advocate for decolonisation and serve in Churchill ' s post - war Government . Stephen Hastings help create the circumstance that lead to the first step towards the independence of Zimbabwe . more recently , Lord Lyell , who I believe be still the long - serve Government Law Officer , be a Member up to 1997 . Samuel Whitbread even represent part of the constituency , although I believe he may be more famous for found a moderately successful brewery . many people pass through Bedfordshire on one of our major road or railway line — sadly , without a second ' s think for the county . though lie within one of the small county in England , Mid Bedfordshire have in its border a beautiful and varied landscape . the outstanding chalk escarpment of the Sundon hill , the Sharpenhoe clapper — I do not know what a clapper be — and the Pegsdon and Barton hill offer stunning view across the county . the Greensand ridge , stretch for 40 mile , offer spectacular high level walking , and in the community forest of Marston vale — one of only 13 in the UK — tree be be plant in the pit dig to supply clay to the nearby Stewartby brickwork : a great example of how we can restore and enhance our local and natural environment . while commuter may blink and miss it , constituent be deeply passionate about our beautiful countryside , our community and our heritage . that be why proposal to build thousand of home on green - belt land near Barton - le - Clay , Silsoe and Gravenhurst have be meet with stiff resistance from local action group , as have proposal to concrete over Steppingley road field , a site on the edge of Flitwick that be home to skylark , deer , badger and hare and sit alongside semi - ancient woodland . similar concern exist throughout Mid Bedfordshire , whether in the green belt or not , and those community have my full support . let we remind ourselves that the green belt be a labour policy , and one that I be happy to support , but not if , in the word of Lord Prescott , it be one that they intend to build on . as beautiful as Mid Bedfordshire be , it be not a sleepy hollow . it be within easy reach of Cambridge , Oxford and London . we host the world - class Cranfield University , numerous start - up technology company , a Nissan research and development site , the Millbrook prove ground — for those who fancy a nice trip on a wobbly road — and Lockheed Martin , which be a significant defence partner work hard to keep we all safe at night . we be home to a vibrant high - tech economy and boundless opportunity to get on . I hope to spend time in this House and at home ensure that our economy be work for young people from modest background like mine . let I conclude my tour of Bedfordshire by mention our county ' s son , John Bunyan . he be the legendary puritan evangelist — not quite a man after my own heart — who be famous for write " the Pilgrim ' s progress " in the 17th century while incarcerate for preach without a licence . after the Bible , his novel be say to be the most publish book in the english language — a record that perhaps one former Member for Mid Bedfordshire be intent on challenge . no doubt , if a ban on second job for member come to pass , those on both side of the House may find that they also have a natural flair for write similarly successful fiction . we be a large intake of new member . we have an opportunity to challenge the status quo and to breathe fresh life into our politic . Modernisation must be thoughtful , reflect a consensus , which certainly emerge in my election campaign , that our politic must improve . but we must recognise that this place need the experience and knowledge that come from work in industry , commerce , law and , yes , even in politic , lest we become a House of politician interested only in the next election , the next poll and the next headline . that be not what the people out there want . they want a competent Government to address the issue that they be concern about and an effective opposition to hold that Government to account . I will play my full role in scrutinise the plan that come forward to ensure that the Parliament that I be so proud to be a Member of embodie the standard in public life that the people of Mid Bedfordshire and across the country expect . I call Alex Barros - Curtis to make his maiden speech . I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for allow I to make my first contribution to the House in this important debate . in my previous role I be proud to play my part in change the Labour party , so it be apt that I should give my maiden speech as we discuss change and modernise this House . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend and other member and congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech , both today and in the past few day . it be a privilege to stand here as the newly elect Member of Parliament for Cardiff West . it be not an exaggeration to say that I stand in the shadow of some impressive individual when it come to my predecessor . I be the fifth individual since world war two to have the honour of represent Cardiff West ; of my four predecessor , three stand under the Labour banner and go on to forge formidable career here in Westminster . one serve as Speaker of this House . Rhodri Morgan , my predecessor but one , serve in this House for nearly 14 year before begin his next act as First Minister of Wales , serve in that role for over nine year . Rhodri be a political giant , and very much love and miss by my constituent . as for my immediate predecessor , Kevin Brennan , as well as serve in a number of ministerial role in the last Labour Government , his single big impact in this House might be his membership of the parliamentary rock band MP4 . so we have a Speaker , a First Minister and a lead guitarist — for I , the pressure really be on . in all seriousness , Kevin serve Cardiff West with distinction for 23 year , and he be a quality act to follow . that quality be clearly spot by the House when Kevin give his maiden speech , on 20 June 2001 . after finish it , Peter Bottomley , the last Parliament ' s Father of the House , comment that Kevin " will be one of the star of the Parliament . he have the sort of speak talent that probably guarantee his join the Whips Office and be shut up for a bit . " — [ Official Report , 20 June 2001 ; Vol . 370 , c . 129 . ] Mr Bottomley be prescient because , follow the 2005 general election , Kevin be indeed appoint an Assistant Government Whip . I want to place on the record my thank to Kevin and his wife Amy for their generosity , advice and support . have listen to a number of maiden speech over the past few day of debate , I believe it have become a tradition to refer to one ' s constituency as the most beautiful in all the land . as this place be steep in tradition , with perhaps a sprinkling of modernisation to come , I would not want to disappoint , so I can confirm that Cardiff West be indeed the most beautiful — or , as we say in Welsh , prydferth or hardd . until this election , Cardiff West exist entirely within the boundary of the city of Cardiff , but follow the most recent set of boundary change , the ward of Pontyclun in Rhondda Cynon Taf now form part of it . Cardiff West ' s gain be Pontypridd ' s loss , as Pontyclun be a vibrant community , full of good people and a thriving high street that we must strive to maintain . on that note , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) for her work represent Pontyclun in the last Parliament . move east , there be a diverse , prydferth and hardd constituency . in one corner be Llandaff , a city within a city that house the beautiful Llandaff cathedral , one of two cathedral in Cardiff . in St Fagans , we find the St Fagans National Museum of History , one of Europe ' s pre - eminent open - air museum . in Canton there be a thriving cultural scene , include chapter art centre and the Corp . Cardiff West also regularly punch above its weight when it come to sport . it be home to Glamorgan cricket , Sophia garden , the athletic stadium at Cardiff international sport stadium and Cardiff City stadium , the home of Cardiff City football club and the Welsh national team . Cardiff West also house Riverside , Pontcanna , Fairwater and Pentrebane , Pentyrch , Radyr and Morganstown , Gwaelod - y - Garth , Ely and Caerau , to name but a few . each area be define by its own unique character , but the common thread that run through they be a proud community , replete with family , local activist , sport club , volunteer and faith leader , all commit to serve the community they call home . that become clear to I during the election campaign . as their newly elect Member of Parliament , I will work with anyone who genuinely seek to support Cardiff West . in the past few day , the Labour Government have set out their plan to deliver on the commitment we make to the british people at the election . throughout that election campaign I meet countless constituent who demand change , but not just for change ' s sake . they want change with a purpose : change that would improve their life by make work pay , by deliver a new deal for work people , by rebuild their broken public service , by make their street safe , by offer a more inclusive and tolerant discourse , and by make an offer of a future for our country that be more positive , more hopeful and more honest . of course , for we to deliver that change we must embody that change , and we need only look around the Chamber to see that . in this Parliament , 263 woman be elect , represent a record high of just over 40 % . this be also the most diverse Parliament by race , and this Parliament include the large cohort of LGBT + member of any Parliament in the world . progress do not always move in a straight line , but if one look around this Chamber and consider the tenor of maiden speech we have hear in these last few day of debate , we see that there be indeed reason for hope . at the outset of this new Parliament , that deserve special mention ; while we can disagree in politic , we should always strive to do so with decency , honesty and respect . do so be not a sign of weakness , but of confidence in ourselves . be elect have be both thrill and humble in equal measure ; I be sure that many of my colleague across both side of the House have experience not dissimilar thought and feeling . however , I be not so blind by the excitement of be elect to this great place to forget that this be not about I . it be about what I can and will do to repay the trust of my constituent and to fight for the cause that matter to they — cause such as defend our art and culture , particularly the cut that threaten the existence of the Welsh National Opera ; support our Welsh and Westminster government to cut the level of child poverty , recruit the new teacher we need and cut NHS waiting time ; unlock our green energy potential to deliver cheap and green energy ; and make work pay by deliver on that new deal for work people . ultimately , of course , it be not just about what we each say ; it be about what we do . for so long as I be here , I will work hard for a strong and fair Cardiff West . finally , I want to thank those people but for whom I would not be here give this maiden speech . the first thank go to my family : my Mum , my Dad and my sister . my family have inspire my value of public service and have make I a well person . the other thank go to my husband , who be up in the Gallery with my sister . we celebrate our six - year wedding anniversary during the final day of the campaign , but we actually meet more than 12 year ago at a time when I be still struggle to acknowledge , let alone accept , that I be gay . through all that , he have the love and patience to support I in accept who I be and to be honest about that . I truly would not be here without his love , support and friendship . as a proud welshman and a proud gay man , I be excited to play my part in the Government ' s programme of national renewal . in so do , I will endeavour to represent Cardiff West to the very good of my ability . I call Ellie Chowns . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome you to your place . I pay tribute to the very moving and passionate maiden speech we have hear from across the House today . I probably do not have time to go through all the detail in they , but I shall remember not to fall asleep in the Library . I recognise the passion with which many people speak about defend their constituent ' interest and , in particular , tackle child poverty . I would like to speak to the formal topic of the debate : the modernisation of the House . I very much welcome the initiative by the Leader of the House in set up the Committee and I look forward to feed into it in whatever way possible , include through this debate . modernisation should be about how we can become more efficient and effective as a House , and therefore more productive in our role as mps . that be what we have be elect to do . as I mention , I hope the Committee can be as representative as possible . it strike I that as more than half the mp be now newbie mp — as , indeed , be I — there be perhaps an opportunity to ensure that the Committee be balance in that way , so that the voice of new mps , who be able to draw on a wide range of experience and perhaps have fresh eye and fresh insight , which I think be mention in one of the maiden speech , be represent . from my perspective as a newly elect Member , I would like to offer observation on three element of how the House operate , to feed into the deliberation of the Committee . I would like to speak about sit , speak and voting — very day - to - day activity . I have spend only three week in this House , but I know from conversation in the corridor that my observation be share by other member in all part of the House . my first point be about sit . we be in a Chamber that be far too small to fit we all . I know that be not a novel observation , but as a newly elect MP , I find it really strike ; it be quite extraordinary . I have serve as a councillor for several year , and I have serve as a Member of the European Parliament . in each of those chamber , we would have our own seat and our own desk , and we could plug in our device , so that we could work off electronic material . it seem extraordinary that we do not have space in this Chamber for each of we to sit and speak . indeed , I be amazed to discover that there be seat in this Chamber on which we can sit , but from which we can not speak . that seem an extraordinary limitation on the ability for everybody to participate in our debate . Wouldn ' t it be wonderful if we all have somewhere to sit ? the limitation on space also lead to some frankly rather ridiculous behaviour , such as the practice of queue up at the opening of the Chamber to place a prayer card and book a seat . at time of great demand , such as the King ' s Speech or Prime Minister ' s question , that lead to a contestation over space that simply would not happen if we have enough space for everybody . while I be on the topic of prayer , there be a practice in this place of have christian prayer . as the daughter of preacher , I be very familiar with those , but I suggest that in this day and age , in a country of all faith and none , it might be time to consider an approach a little more like Radio 4 ' s " thought for the Day " , with a moment of reflection at the beginning of the day and an opportunity to hear view from people from a range of faith , and indeed with none . I will move on to speak . I be glad that a time limit have be introduce for speech today ; I be use to speak in chamber with a time limit . time limit aid the democratic process , because they mean that everybody get a fair crack of the whip and an equal chance to have their voice hear in the Chamber . if we have more time limit , there would be more opportunity for people to participate , and perhaps mp would be keener to participate in debate . there be also the process of get a slot . I have be busy bob up and down to attract your attention , Madam Deputy Speaker , as I do for five solid hour last week without manage to attract the Speaker ' s attention . in recent day , a number of member have want to make a maiden speech but have not be able to . the practice of bob might be good for the glute , but I suggest that it be not so good for democracy . perhaps we could find a more efficient way of allocate speak time . while we be on the topic , I note that the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) speak about the process for Government or non - Government control of speak time . an initiative to increase back - Bench influence over the allocation of speak time would be very useful . my final point on speak be about the culture in this House . in the few short day that I have spend in this Chamber , I have witness everything from excessive deference to , frankly , bray . as other member have say in their maiden speech , we really need to clean up politic . we really need to show that we be all here to debate in as positive a spirit as possible , as the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) say . it be extraordinary to I that we do not have electronic voting . we have a semi - system . while I have be here , I have participate in five vote , which have take at least an hour and a quarter . if we add up all our vote , it basically come to a month of MP time . it be an utter waste of time and totally unproductive . we could be get through far more . let we get rid of the vote Lobbies . we can double the physical size of the Chamber if we get rid of they — that be a genuine , practical suggestion . we can take the opportunity of the decant process and have newbie mps to really modernise how we operate here . finally , if we want to be a truly modern House of Commons , we need proportional representation . I call Sureena Brackenridge to make her maiden speech . may I offer you my congratulation , Madam Deputy Speaker , and also thank you for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech and , in particular , to make it during this fundamentally important debate , which will ensure that we be not just a Government of service but a House of service . in my speech I will mention many people who have do precisely that — serve other . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , and to hear such excellent maiden speech from member on both side of the House . it be an honour to serve the community where I be bear , raise my family , and work in local secondary school as a science teacher and then a deputy headteacher . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Jane Stevenson and — give parliamentary boundary change — Eddie Hughes as well . I thank they for their faithful service to our community . I also wish to honour the late Ian Brookfield , former leader of Wolverhampton city council , who sadly pass away at the age of 57 after a short illness . Ian fill any room , and be a political giant . his legacy of celebrate the diversity of our city and fight for the vulnerable will not be forget . take a mere glance at the roll call of previous mp who have serve Wolverhampton North East , and you soon realise that there be big shoe to fill . Jennie Lee , who when first elect be too young to vote , be instrumental in establish the Open University . Ken Purchase , who serve for 18 year , be a deeply respected constituency MP . Ken play a pivotal role in the campaign to save our beloved Wolverhampton Wanderers football club . lose our club would have be devastating for the local community , not only in economic term but in term of our identity , as a city that truly love our football club . a return Member , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , be a Minister in the last Labour Government , and I know that she will serve tirelessly in this Government . the long and rich history of my constituency be a fascinating story of how a small village establish in 985 ad grow into the wonderful , diverse city it be today . it be a history carve out of war , plague , and economic boom and bust ; a story of determined perseverance , progress and community cohesion . these value be a testament to what make any place great : its people . the dawn of the industrial revolution bring factory and canal to Wolverhampton and Willenhall . we be ideally locate to become one of the major region involve in coal and metal production , especially the production of lock , key and enamelware . we see growth in manufacturing , with company such as Guy Motors , Goodyears , and the Chubb and Yale lock maker . we be at the heart of the " workshop of the world " . if it be mechanical , we build it . my journey to stand here today start with my parent migrate from Fiji as young adult . I be bear and raise on a council estate , Ashmore Park , watch my father work all hour in demand job . time be tough back then , but they should not be that tough today . I encounter such challenge directly when I be honour to serve as mayoress of Wolverhampton as we emerge from covid restriction . I meet extraordinary community group and many remarkable people , include the first official freewoman of the city , Lisa Potts . Lisa protect her student at a primary school nursery from be attack by an armed intruder . selflessly , she place herself between young student and the attacker , suffer horrific , life - change injury in the process . a George Medal recipient , Lisa remain in close contact with many of the student almost 30 year after that horrific day . with her humility , courage and compassion , she be the very definition of a hero . Wolverhampton and Willenhall take great pride in show our gratitude to those serve in the british armed force , and to veteran . we have extraordinary veteran community group and volunteer , such as Anne Partridge , a regimental sergeant - major , from the Staffordshire Regiment Association , a true leader know for get thing do . I be privileged to be part of the unveiling of the magnificent Saragarhi monument , commemorate the brave last stand of 21 Sikh soldier from the british 36th Sikhs regiment and one muslim cook who valiantly fight for the British Army . unity be strength , and we see a wonderful example of that when the Guru Nanak gurdwara and St Thomas ' church work together for Wednesfield in Bloom ; they have amass several gold award . I see at first hand the struggle that family face every day in my former role as a deputy headteacher . I could not believe the normalisation of hardship . school have become daily support hub for family who be desperate in so many way , face challenge that should be consign to the dustbin of history . it be these experience that have inspire I to stand and fight for well . I want every child to be able to take a seat at any table , regardless of their background . this Labour Government will break down barrier to opportunity , with free breakfast club in all primary school , a reform secondary curriculum that value creative subject , a focus on the skill need by the future workforce , and a child ' s wellbee Bill , so that child be safe , healthy , happy and treat fairly . consider the high level of deprivation in the school where I work , I can not speak highly enough of the dedicated staff , incredible student and supportive parent . I have a message for my student : " I miss you , and I be proud of you . remember to find what you love , and go for it with everything you have " . finally , my humble thank go to the electorate of Wolverhampton North East , who put their trust in I . to those who do not vote for I , please know that I be here to serve you as well . the damage do will not be fix overnight , but the work have start . I will serve all constituent to bring the change you deserve . congratulation to you and your colleague on your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish you the very good of luck in deal with all of we in our time here . I congratulate the hon . member for Wolverhampton North East ( Sureena Brackenridge ) on her excellent maiden speech , and particularly on her passionate message to her student , who I be sure miss she very much too . I want to speak about the motion on the Order Paper . there be a huge amount I could say about the way in which this House should be modernise ; I have be speak and think about it for year . I be probably one of the few member who have spend many hour pore over the Standing Orders , consider how they could well be change to improve this House . not many people be quite as geeky about that as I be . however , I will not focus on that . instead , I want to talk about the motion in front of we . motion 4 have be badge as a " second job " motion . it relate to pay employment , but it do not include the pay employment that constituent think of when they think about second job . they think about the member appear on GB News weekly , but that be not cover in the propose change . as the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) say , constituent think about the people do work for a financial institution , but again , that be not include in the motion . the change to the rule be good , but the motion should not be badge as relate to second job . what it do be increase the transparency and restriction on Members of Parliament who seek to use their privileged knowledge to get pay employment . we all have knowledge of parliamentary procedure because we be mp , and the motion prevent we from use that to get money . that be a laudable aim , but it be not the change that the House need in order to fix the issue of second job . I will support the Government ' s change , but they need to go far far . I have several concern about the motion on the Modernisation Committee , begin with its incredibly woolly remit , which be : " to consider reform to House of Commons procedure , standard , and working practice ; and to make recommendation thereon " . its remit be not to modernise the House of Commons , which I would have be more supportive of . if we give the Committee an understanding that it need to drag the House into the 20th century — never mind the 21st century — by increase the amount of modern working practice and the ability of mp to represent their constituent in Parliament , that would be helpful , but the remit be not there . it be just " to make recommendation " , so I be disappointed that the Government have not go far on that . the issue of the make - up of Members be significant . it be not just about the small party that be not the first , second or third in the House want to have a voice , but about the way that the Government have choose to arrange the Committee and the number of member that they have choose to have on it , which mean they have guarantee that it can not have a Northern Ireland member . the membership will be divvy up between the Labour party , the Conservatives and the Lib Dems , so there will never be a DUP member or anyone make decision on the Committee who be struggle with the geographical challenge that be unique to Northern Ireland Members . the SNP would have like a seat on the Committee . I be pleased to hear what the Leader of the House say about try to ensure that all voice be hear , but like the shadow Leader of the House , I would like to have have more conversation with she beforehand about it , so that we could have suggest our view on the good way for our voice to be hear . if she really want to work collegiately , we be happy to do that , but unfortunately this have not get off to the most collegiate start . the Government should consider the good way to do that , because I be concerned about the geographical issue . the Leader of the House speak specifically about the experience of all member in this place . I would like the Committee to consider hear from former mp who also have significant experience . it may be that we do not currently have mp with certain disability , or who have experience the proxy voting system , but we do formerly . during covid , I do a huge amount of work with the Procedure Committee , which meet online almost every day in the early day of lockdown . we consider every possible way to make the House covid compliant and make a huge number of recommendation to the Government , some of which could be incorporate to make the House more modern as time go on . I be pleased that the Leader of the House commit that the Modernisation Committee will take evidence from those Committees , but there will still be no SNP voice to feed into the Modernisation Committee , because we be unlikely to get a seat on any of those Committees . it be all well and good take advice from those place , but the small party be again be restrict in how they be be hear . I be happy to support the creation of the Committee , but I would appreciate it if the Leader of the House try to work in a more collegiate way than she have so far . I call Neil Duncan - Jordan to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate . I congratulate you on your recent election , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Sureena Brackenridge ) on an excellent address . I look forward to hear many more such passionate and powerful contribution from she in future . I would like to place on record my sincere thank to the parliamentary staff who have provide such excellent support and guidance to I , and I be sure to many other , over the past two week . I be sure that you can recall , Madam Deputy Speaker , what it be like when you first arrive here . have the support of those staff have make the transition to Westminster much easy . as a newly elect MP , I have to say that this be unlike any other workplace I have ever attend . that be why I wholeheartedly support the proposal from my right hon . friend the Leader of the House for a Modernisation Committee that will look again at the culture and working practice of the House . I hope to support its work in whatever way I can . I would also like to express my thank to my predecessor , Sir Robert Syms . he and I share a pride in represent the constituency of Poole . he serve the House and his local resident for 27 year . even in defeat , he be generous enough to offer I his assistance in acclimatise to parliamentary life , and for that I be very grateful . I also owe he an apology . after an exhausting three recount , which last until 11 o ' clock on the morning of 5 July , I forget to thank he properly for his service . I hope I can rectify that today and wish he well for the future . have listen to a number of maiden speech over the past few day , I be aware that new Members wax lyrical about how beautiful their constituency might be , and I will not deviate from that format . anyone who have visit my constituency as a tourist know that the beach at Branksome Chine and Sandbanks be world class . Poole Park be a superb example of victorian municipal pride , win award for its well manage green space , which be much need in today ' s busy world . the park border Poole ' s magnificent harbour . the harbour area have be inhabit since the iron age . it become a major trading centre with Newfoundland in the 16th century , and by the 19th century nine out of 10 worker be involve in some kind of harbour activity . we even have the odd pirate . the link to the sea play its part in world war two , when Poole be the third large embarkation point for the D - day landing of Operation Overlord , and the local Marine base play a key role in the Falklands conflict . today , the marine industry continue to play a significant role in the town , whether through the manufacture of yacht , the fishing industry or associate tourism . of course , the most famous nautical connection be the headquarters of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , which be celebrate its 200th anniversary . I be happy to add my name to the early - day motion , table by my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) , on the RNLI ' s anniversary , and to pay tribute to the man and woman who have volunteer over the year to save other , irrespective of who they be or where they come from . you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that a rise tide raise all boat . it be important for member to understand that not everyone in Poole be a multimillionaire . although the most expensive land in the country , know as Sandbanks , might be home to footballer and celebrity , nearly 7 , 000 resident in Poole struggle to cover essential cost from their monthly income , accord to Citizens Advice . one in three of those be in work . in Poole , like the rest of the country , that get bad during the year of austerity and then the cost of living crisis . that be why I want to pay tribute today to people such as Mel Meadowcroft and her team of volunteer , whom I have have the pleasure of meeting , who run the community food store in St Gabriel ' s church in Hamworthy . it offer local family a chance to buy the thing they need at very low cost but , importantly , in a way that retain their dignity . without that work , many more family would be in severe financial difficulty . that be why I welcome the King ' s Speech and the commitment to make work pay , as set out in the employment right Bill . as a former full - time trade union official use to negotiate with employer and represent member , I be well aware of the need to reset the balance in the workplace to enable work people to organise as a way of improve their term and condition , as well as make the improvement need to address low pay and inequality in the workplace . ban zero - hour contract , end fire and rehire , and give day - one right on parental leave , sick pay and protection from unfair dismissal will be significant achievement of this government and will bring about lasting change that will benefit million of work people , include those in my constituency . I will close by thank some significant people who put I here today : the resident of Poole for have the confidence to vote for a Labour MP for the first time in the history of the seat ; my wonderful Poole Labour family for their commitment to the cause and a tremendous sense of camaraderie ; and my wife Helen for believe that this be possible . there be a great sense of pride in be here today and I will do whatever I can over the lifetime of this Parliament to repay the faith that the people of Poole , my party and my family have show in I . it be a pleasure , Madam Deputy Speaker , to speak for the second day run with you in the Chair . may I say what a pleasure it be to follow the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) . I wish he well , along with all the other who make their maiden speech today . this House be enrich and bless by the contribution of member from all part of the House . it augur well for the future . we all benefit when everyone bring their knowledge and their expertise of other subject matter to the Chamber . in the very short time that I have , I wish to refer to the important conversation that need to be have about mps and double jobbing . as mp and elect representative , our three main priority be accountability , scrutiny and representation . there be way to be critical and compassionate in relation to this subject . for instance , we should consider those who may have have establish business before they come to this House . a report in 2015 indicate that 26 mp declare more earning from directorship , pay employment and shareholding than they do from their parliamentary salary . that put a question in my mind . on the other hand , I have never make any secret of how grateful I be to be able to carry on with my role . I dedicate so much of my time , as do other , to do my job to the good of my ability . but we have seven Sinn F é in MPs who be elect but do not take their seat . they do not get a wage , but they can claim for office expense . undoubtedly , there be issue in relation to double jobbing that need to be address , but many of those be down to individual circumstance . I do not know everybody ' s circumstance , but an MP who be elect to this House could be here for five year — for one term — and , at the end of it , they will still have a mortgage to pay . what about the job or even the opportunity that they may have have before they come here ? I just pose that as a question . I be a councillor and a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly before I become an MP . once I be elect , I give up my council job and my role as an MLA . I give the business that I own to my son . that be what we can do , but consideration should be give to both side of the argument . however , my stance be clear . my no . 1 priority be do the job that I be elect to do , which be to represent the people of Strangford , to scrutinise government legislation , and to be hold accountable to my constituent . the other issue that I wish to speak to be modernisation . I can well remember come to this House , sit on these green Benches , and feel the overwhelming weight of responsibility on my shoulder . I be innately aware of what it mean to have the honour of represent my constituency in the great seat of democracy . although I note the difference in the way that thing be handle when I be first elect in 2010 and struggle to come to term with some of the traditional aspect of the House , I now treasure those tradition . there be those who express the other point of view and want to see lot of change , and then there be those who , like I , see the tradition as something to hold on to . I agree with the rationale behind these timeless tradition , which be something that I be afraid we will lose if we blindly modernise . Mr Speaker say to hon . member , " if you want to catch my eye , wear a tie . " well , everybody who can and should wear a tie be wear one today . I support the rationale behind that . I think it be the right way to do thing . if we do not move with the time , then the time will move without we ; however , I urge caution . we should ensure that not one thing be change simply because we can rather than because we should . not all modernisation be welcome . there be now rule in place that preclude I from be an officer of more than six all - party parliamentary group . that have be difficult , as I be let some of those group down . I put that forward as a point of view ; obviously other will take a different view on that . some modernisation be necessary . the overhaul of financial claim be a vital tool in restore public confidence . modernisation of the voting system be necessary for functionality during covid , and I be thankful that the flexibility be there , but we need to be incredibly careful , if we consider change to Commons voting , that they do not result in more absenteeism and remote voting . some have suggest that we change the voting system ; I suggest that we do not . modernisation of the maternity system be long overdue , and I be thankful for that . we need modernisation , but it must be for a clear purpose and not for ease of operation . the tradition of this place should not be dismiss as mere tradition ; there be wisdom behind many of they that must be protect . I urge the House to ensure that such protection be in place . I be all for modernisation as necessary , but I feel strongly that it must be do with wisdom and sensitivity , and that our century - long tradition should not be abandon to give an appearance of modern society . yes , I would love to speak first in every debate , but I be not go to . I would not be allow to do so ; it would not be the right way of do thing . I respect the convention that would prevent it as ancient but necessary . every single issue discuss must be consider in that way . just because something have age do not mean that it cease to be of use . that must be the premise of any discussion on modernisation in this great House , in this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — well together . with all the culture , history and tradition from all part of society that we have here , we can work together to make change in the right way — not change for change ' s sake , but the change that be necessary . I call Gordon McKee to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the Chair , although it feel a bit weird to welcome anyone here , give that I have be here for about two minute . I follow on from the excellent contribution make by my hon . friend the member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , and for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) among other . I praise in particular my hon . friend for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh , both because he give an excellent speech and because his mum be one of my constituent . as I start this new job , I have be think a lot about my family ; I be do so while prepare my remark today . I be think in particular of my grandpa , who be a coalminer in the coalfield of Lanarkshire , just outside Glasgow . when I be a wee boy , he would tell I of the condition that he work in : " darkness , " he say , " so black that you could hold your hand right in front of your eye and still not be able to see it . " in that darkness , he would toil away , unable to imagine his own future , let alone that of his grandwean , as he would say . all the while he toil , he be inhale fume so toxic that later in life he would have lung cancer , and live the rest of his life with just one lung . my dad , a welder , be here today — off during the Glasgow fair — along with my mum , who run her own business , to watch I from the Gallery . my career so far have be very different from that of my parent and grandparent . for a start , they have a proper job , whereas I be now do this for a living , but it have be different for two relate reason . the first be the Labour party — both in the sense that it have help to provide I with a new job , and in the protection that it have deliver for work people . health and safety legislation , deliver by Labour and build by the trade union movement , have end the kind of condition that my grandparent work in . the second reason my career have be different be technology . I suspect that today in Britain there be more bitcoin miner than coalminer , and that be ultimately a good thing . Coalmining be difficult , hard , laborious work . as a kid I spend many long hour in front of my computer and , while much of that be spend play FIFA against my wee brother Mark , some of it be more productive , because I teach myself to code . I watch YouTube video and over week , month and year I learn how to build software . I develop iPhone app that be use around the world , mean that code write on my laptop in Glasgow could be push out to device around the world in second and that this 19 - year - old kid in his childhood bedroom could run an app servicing people from Los Angeles to Dubai . if it can do that , technology can reform our public service too . technology might even help to reform this House , as we be debate today . I hope and know that high - growth , innovative business in my home city of Glasgow will be a key part of that . much have be say and write about Glasgow over the year , but one thing stick with I in particular . Anthony Bourdain be not a man know for his parliamentary language , so let we just say that he describe Glasgow as the most unpretentious place on earth — an " antidote " to the world , in his word , " so unapologetically work class and attitude - free " . I think he be right because , of all the thing I love about Glasgow , it be our people and our humour that I enjoy most . if someone ever get a wee bit too big for their boot , return home to Glasgow will soon put an end to that — something I be sure will be increasingly useful the long I spend in this place . unlike many Glaswegians , my admiration even extend to some of Glasgow ' s politician . it be customary in speech such as this to praise our predecessor , but I know that for some that will be do through slightly gritted tooth at the end of a long and bitter - fought election campaign . in my case , I talk about my predecessor with genuine warmth and admiration . Stewart McDonald serve the people of Glasgow South diligently and build an enviable reputation in this place . he be particularly respect for his long - stand support for the people of Ukraine , something that see he award the ukrainian order of merit . if I leave this place have do half as much as he do for people around the world fight for democracy , I will leave a happy man . before Stewart , there be labour predecessor . there be Tom Harris , who have be personally kind to I ; John Maxton , now Lord Maxton , whose son teach I modern study in high school , believe it or not — although I will leave it up to other to decide whether he do a good or bad job of that — and of course Teddy Taylor , who be still remember fondly by many of my constituent . I would also like to mention two other member of this House who have a big impact on my life , both from Glasgow . the former Member for East Kilbride , Adam Ingram , grow up in the east end of Glasgow and be one of the first people I ever speak to in the Labour party . his advice and wise counsel have be a constant source of support to I over the year , and I be incredibly grateful . the other be a southsider , my friend and the former Member for Glasgow Central , Anas Sarwar . I have the great privilege of serve as the director of Anas ' s successful leadership campaign to become leader of Scottish Labour . three and a half year ago , as we sit begin that campaign , it be hard to imagine what the future might hold , but even in our most optimistic of moment , I do not think we would have predict this . I stand here as one of 37 Scottish Labour mps . have praise three Glaswegians , I will do something unusual for a Glasgow MP and praise someone from Edinburgh . my right hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) have be a friend of mine for many year , and he deserve enormous credit for his long and lonely shift as the sole Scottish Labour MP , and for be someone who recognise that the Labour party have to change if it be to earn people ' s trust once again . it give I enormous pleasure and pride to see he in his rightful place as the Secretary of State for Scotland . that brief interlude aside , we return to Scotland ' s real capital city . I be privileged to represent Glasgow ' s southside , a place that have have something of a renaissance in recent year , boast the trendy tenement of Shawlands , the tree - line avenue of Newlands and the beautiful conservation village of Carmunnock , among other . my constituency contain many of Glasgow ' s beautiful park , of which Linn Park , Queen ' s Park and Pollok Country Park be just a few . in the latter , hon . member will find the Burrell collection , which be award the Art Fund ' s museum of the year award after its reopening last year . like many part of the city , however , we be not without difficulty . Castlemilk be an area with enormous spirit and the kind people anyone will ever meet , but it also remain an area with challenge . even today , the simple act of get a supermarket in Castlemilk have prove difficult , something I hope to change as the local MP . what be true of all my constituency be that it be an outward - look , diverse and welcome place . the Scots - asian community in particular have contribute enormously to Glasgow ' s character , and I be very proud to represent they here in Parliament . immigration have make my constituency rich , and it make our country rich , too . the southside of Glasgow be also a passionately pro - european place . although Brexit be settle in the previous Parliament , I intend to support the Government ' s move to repair our relationship with Europe . my first duty be to my constituency and my country — be the Member of Parliament for Glasgow South be the only job that I will do , so long as the people of Glasgow South wish for I to continue — but I also feel a sense of responsibility towards the many million of people at home and around the world who do not have a voice ; the people toil away in darkness , just as my grandpa do all those year ago . I hope that none of we in this House forget the million — indeed , billion — of people around the world who be not as lucky as we , include those face persecution or war , those without access to clean water or a good education , and those bind by modern slavery . I be one of the lucky few to serve in this place , but I will never forget the people who put I here and the people who do not have a voice . deliver for they will be how I judge my success . I call Lisa Smart to make her maiden speech . it be an absolute honour to follow the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) . he speak passionately about his constituency , and his love for his constituent be clear for all to hear . it be also an honour to follow maiden speech from the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) , for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Sureena Brackenridge ) and for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) . each be , in their own way , an act to follow . I thank the people of Hazel Grove constituency for place their trust in I . that trust be a profound responsibility , and I be committed to repay it through hard work , integrity and service to my community . I acknowledge the work of my predecessor William Wragg , who serve in Parliament from 2015 until he stand down at the last election . he stand up to those in power when he feel that it be need , and he speak openly about poor mental health in a way that I be sure will have help to break down stigma . on behalf of all resident of Hazel Grove , I wish he all the good for the future . I accept that I may be a little biased , but Hazel Grove be quite clearly the fine constituency in the land . it range from central Stockport out to the edge of the Peak district , take in the community of Bredbury , Bosden Farm , Compstall , Great Moor , Hawk Green , Heaviley , High Lane , Little Moor , Marple , Marple Bridge , Mellor , Mill Brow , Norbury , Offerton , Romiley , Strines , Woodley , and some , but not all , of Hazel Grove itself . whether the peaceful haven of our green space or the proud reminder of our industrial heritage , Hazel Grove have it all . we have the Peak forest , the Macclesfield canal , which have one of the steep lock flight in the country , and our beautiful river : the Goyt , the Mersey and the Tame . it be no wonder so many people want to call our area home . our river would be even more beautiful if the water company be not pump quite so much sewage into they . we very much look forward to the Government implement their plan to clean up that scandal . however , it be the people who really make our community . start Point social enterprise in Woodley be tackle digital exclusion by give some of my more mature constituent the confidence to get online , the Cherry Tree Project in Romiley empower young people to live their good life , and NK Theatre Arts work with child and adult of all ability across the borough , use creativity and the perform art to transform life . local people have many of the answer that we seek on how to fix the problem we face as a country . my job , and the job of this House , be to empower they , not tell they what be good for they . I be a liberal and a liberal Democrat . we exist to build and safeguard a fair , free and open society in which we balance the fundamental value of liberty , equality and community , and in which no one shall be enslave by poverty , ignorance or conformity . I join the Lib Dems and get involve in politic because shout at the television be not bring about the change that we need . my constituent have be very clear with I that their top priority be our local health service . they should not have a hospital that be literally fall down , they should not have to wait month or year for treatment , and they should not have to struggle to care for their love one . the phenomenal staff at Stepping Hill hospital should not have to wade through flood corridor to get to their patient because yet another pipe have burst , as it do last weekend . Stepping Hill hospital must get the repair it need , and we need a new , additional hospital in the town centre so that local people can get the health and social care service they deserve . I will not rest until they do . I could not possibly make my first speech in this House without mention the last Liberal Democrat to represent my community , Andrew Stunell . Andrew be the MP for Hazel Grove from 1997 to 2015 , and he be that rare kind of politician who give politic a good name . he be an MP who set the standard to which all who come after he be rightly hold — he be interested in do something , not just be something . he put his constituent first and bring about change in the law , both as a Minister and as a Back Bencher . Andrew make thing well for the whole country : as a Minister , he deliver the Localism Act 2011 , but as a Back Bencher he come top of the private Member ' s Bill ballot in 2003 , result in the sustainable and secure Buildings Bill become an Act of Parliament in 2004 . More than all that , he be one of the warm , kind people I have ever meet . he be the kind of person you want on your team : hard - work , honest and kind . he help I work out what it be to make a difference in public life . the people of Hazel Grove , the whole Lib Dem family and I will miss he and his guidance hugely . I be the first woman to be elect as the MP for Hazel Grove , and I take that responsibility really seriously . I be especially delighted to be a Member of the large group of Liberal Democrats ever elect to this House : there be 73 of we , if we include the right honourable Jennie . I go to a comprehensive school , and be the first member of my family to go to university . before decide that shout at the telly be not bring about the change that I want to see in the world and that stand for elect office be the way to be part of that change , I work in a business as a director of client relation — my client be big pension fund , charity and foundation . I be then the chief exec of a charity , educate woman and girl in the develop world . for the past eight year , I have also be lucky enough to represent some of my constituent as an elect councillor for Bredbury Green and Romiley on Stockport council , a role I have love . I be one of a rather large number of colleague who come to this House know at first hand the value of local government , and the desperate need for it to be fund properly . I turn to the substance of today ' s debate , which be standard and modernisation . the main thrust of what we have hear from the Government and the Leader of the House — that any further role should benefit an MP ' s constituent — be absolutely right . in the short term , we should of course stop mp from take on role as pay parliamentary adviser , strategist or consultant . in the long term , daylight be often the good disinfectant , so I ask the Leader of the House to consider whether publish any employment contract for outside arrangement — with suitable redaction — and the transparency that would bring would allow constituent to judge for themselves whether they be get value for money from their MP . as a new MP , I be strike and more than a little bemused by some of the wonderful convention and habit of this House . take it as read that colleague be honourable be a good thing , and refer to one another as the Members for our constituency act as a powerful reminder of who send we here , but I be also strike by how much modernisation be need . we on the Lib Dem Benches look forward to support the government when we agree , but I would expect we to urge , persuade , and on occasion push the Government to go far and fast to make we the most effective we can be , because our constituent deserve no less . with so many newly elect colleague , we have a crack opportunity to change this place for the well . it could be so much more efficient and so much more effective . let we do that with fresh eye before we be all too institutionalised and think that some of this stuff be normal . however , that be also go to take some courage from the new Government , because make process and procedure less obscure so that more people understand they and make this place more efficient will mean that mp have more power and the Government slightly less of it . government — especially government with new large majority , I be guess — will probably grow rather fond of that power quite quickly , so let we get crack . alongside modernise this place , we should of course reform our politic and our democracy more fundamentally . the House of Lords should obviously be elect , 16 and 17 - year - old should be able to vote , and we must replace the antiquated and deeply unfair first - past - the - post system with a fair , proportionate voting system . I look forward to make the case for these change during my time here . this election be the fourth time I have stand to represent the people of Hazel Grove as the Lib Dem candidate , and it probably take a certain sort of stubbornness , resilience and determination to do that . it most certainly take the support of my family , and especially of my partner , Ed . I be so grateful to he . our mischievous rescue dog Bonnie have not quite make up her mind yet about what she think about I work away from home rather more , but I hope to be able to convince she that win be well than lose , as it undoubtedly be . win enable we to get stuff do , and there be a lot to do . it be the honour of my life to be elect to represent my phenomenal community , the people of Hazel Grove constituency . they will be at the heart of everything I do here , and I hope I do they proud . I call Hamish Falconer to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the many maiden speech of new Members I have hear today , include the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) for her fine speech . hon . member have speak with affection and commitment about their home constituency . each of they rightly place their own area above all other , and that be understandable , but I stand before you as the Member for the old continuous constituency to send a member to this House . for almost 1 , 000 year , man and woman have stand , as I stand today , proud to proclaim themselves the Member for Lincoln . I walk in the footstep of a series of strong Labour woman . Lincoln ' s first female Member of Parliament be a titan of our movement , Margaret Beckett . Grafton House , Lincoln ' s labour club , be found and sustain by the much - miss Leo . Margaret be succeed by two other formidable labour woman , Gillian Merron and Karen Lee , both of whom continue to serve our movement in local and national Government . I be honour to succeed they . I would like to pay tribute , too , to my immediate predecessor , Karl McCartney , who also love the city . he dedicate himself particularly to improve local transport provision . he press forward with relief road for the city , and I now take up that cause too . Lincoln be a beautiful , historic , young and dynamic city , but we be far from other major urban centre and , indeed , from any of my hon . friend on these Benches . we need a public transport network that reflect that relative geographical isolation , and I hope to work with colleague across the House to make sure that Lincoln and Lincolnshire get the transport network they need . right hon . and hon . member may not yet be sick of hear I talk about the urgent necessity to upgrade the Lincoln to Newark line , one of the slow in the country , but I assure they that they will be . all of we elect to serve our community will of course be seek the support that they deserve , as I also intend to in relation to the cost of living , healthcare and housing , but I want to pause to pay tribute to the service my city have do for this country . that service snake back even far than my predecessor . over 1 , 000 year ago , in 1217 , England seem almost lose . french force loyal to Prince Louis have take most of England , and even the majority of Lincoln herself . it be only our castle , lead by a woman in her mid - sixty , Nicola de la Haye , the constable of Lincoln castle , who survive month of bitter siege warfare , that finally repel the invader at the battle of Lincoln , secure the city and save England . hundred of year later , Lincoln and her worker again spring to the defence of this country . in the chaos of the first world war , face mechanised industrial - scale warfare of the most horrifying kind , Lincoln invent the tank . we produce one in 14 of all Royal Air Force plane at Ruston , and the work people of Lincoln deliver to this country the equipment and people need to prevail against the odd . on these Benches , and in this movement , we never forget that . Lincoln ' s connection with the RAF have never since dim , and less than a decade later young man , include my grandfather , train to fly at the RAF station surround our city . to this day we be proud to continue to host RAF Waddington , one of the most important RAF basis . at this moment RAF Waddington and its brave man and woman protect this country and this House , as do Sobraon barrack in uphill Lincoln . I be proud of their service , and I will be a champion for they and their family for as long as I be in this place . as for so many of my constituent , public service take I far from home , and I be surprised and honour to be ask to return to the Foreign Office shortly after my election to this place . I know that my constituent expect I to do my duty there , as they do at Waddington and across the world . it be an honour to join the Government , but before I speak from the Front Bench on Government business , I wish to send a message to my constituent : I be first and foremost the Member for Lincoln — for the city and Bracebridge , Waddington and Skellingthorpe ; for the school and two university ; for the barrack and the airbase ; for the hospital , cathedral and castle ; for our copy of Magna Carta ; for the independent shop of the bail ; for Sincil Bank and the park of Boultham and Hartsholme ; and for the Gillies , the Ermine , Birchwood and Steep Hill . this be the honour of my life , and our city on a hill will be my first and last priority for as long as you send I here . I now call Patrick Spencer to make his maiden speech . it be an honour to rise to make my first formal contribution as a Member of this House , and I start by congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker , and on take your seat in the Chair . I also start with a slight admission of honesty . since arrive here , I have be nervous and anxious about make my maiden speech — we might even say that I delay make my maiden speech for fear that my new colleague be superb orator who would go on to make excellent speech . I be happy to admit that that fear come to pass : there have be some superb speech over the past couple of day . even today , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) , and the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) , for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , and of course my neighbour , the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , whose great speech do justice to that town . I thank he for his kind word . he be no long here , so I will stop the nicety there . I be in the fortunate position of have be send to this place to represent a constituency and a people that have play a huge role in my life . my grandfather grow up in east London before move to Essex to raise a family . it be in the 1980 , after retirement and with my grandmother Mary , that he make that all - too - familiar trip up the A12 to settle just 20 minute outside Ipswich . my early and happy childhood memory be spend fall in love with a country and a countryside that I still call home today , and a county and a people I be now humble to represent in this place . shock horror , Madam Deputy Speaker : I think Central Suffolk and North Ipswich be bless with some of the most beautiful countryside in England , but it be the history of the area that make it unique . the Anglo - Saxon King Raedwald be one of the rich and most powerful of his era . consequently , Suffolk have become a treasure trove for archaeologist for nearly a century . my neighbour the hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) can boast of Sutton Hoo , but on my far - eastern border , just last year a 1 , 400 - year - old pre - christian temple be discover . expert can trace back human activity in the area almost 6 , 000 year . I be fortunate to have the beautiful market town of Framlingham in my patch . it be home to Framlingham castle , a former seat of the famous Howard family , and St Michael ' s church , which contain the tomb of Tudor royalty and nobility , and which I love to take my two child to see . I also have Helmingham hall in my constituency , which have unbelievably host both Queen Elizabeth I and Queen Elizabeth II . it be unsurprising , give our ancient , lush and beautiful landscape , that we have a rich history of produce great artist who be inspire by those surrounding . Thomas Gainsborough , John Constable , Benjamin Britten and even Brian Eno and Ed Sheeran , to name a few , be all product of our wonderful county in some way or another . I be afraid to say that this child of Suffolk be not bless with the same artistic talent . the other great contribution that I have always feel that Suffolk make to our country be in food and drink . I have be tell by my wife that it be certainly a domain in which I have more expertise and experience . central Suffolk and North Ipswich be home to Aspall cider , manufacture for almost 300 year from apple tree in the ground of Aspall hall . it be now one of the most recognisable brand in the global drink market , export product to customer around the world . it be a great example of global success by a home - grow british business . we be great exporter of not only cider but sausage , spud , chocolate and condiment . it be not uncommon to find Suffolk produce in shop across the country . it be for that reason that I have in the past , and will now in this place , support initiative like that of my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) that give consumer in this country the opportunity to buy produce from producer in this country . the Suffolk farming and agricultural community be such an important part of our local society , and they be also emblematic of our local culture and identity , with their no - nonsense attitude to hard work , love for family and community , complete and utter ambivalence to the weather , and deep affection for our natural environment . I be sure that all member have their bias , but I be of the firm belief that the people of Central Suffolk and North Ipswich be the fine our country have to offer . while I hope to be a voice primarily for the people of Suffolk and Ipswich , I hope to use my time in this place to speak up for another cause . in a previous life , before enter this place , I work under my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) at the Centre for Social Justice , and then as an adviser in the Department for Education . in that time , I realise that the Conservative party and conservativism have a proud story to tell on the critical issue of help those who need help — on offer the most vulnerable in our society not just a handout but a leg up , and on stand up for what be just and fair in society . More than anything , they be about give people the opportunity to fulfil their potential . I count the ward of Whitton , Whitehouse and Castle Hill as part of my patch . Whitton and Whitehouse be two of the most deprived ward in our country . Castle Hill be probably one of the most unequal . by any measure , Ipswich be , like its football team , a huge success story , but large part of it , include many family live in Whitehouse , Whitton and Castle Hill , have be leave behind . the story be all too familiar : the failure to adapt in a post - industrial economy ; generation of low - wage work , if not worklessness ; the proliferation of crime ; and high level of immigration that have cause a degree of social polarisation . for however long the people of Central Suffolk and North Ipswich want I to represent they , I will fight in this place to empower those people who feel left behind , those who want to get on in life , and those who want to , and can , reach their potential . at a time when faith and trust in politic be at an all - time low among those who feel lock out of our economy and our society , there be no more pressing cause than ensure that Britain work for everyone . today , we be debate the merit of allow mps to have a second job . time and again on the doorstep during the election , and across dining table for many year , I have hear from people — rich and poor , young and old , left and right — that they have lose faith in politician do the right thing . believe it or not , the NHS , immigration , job , income and access to home be all hugely important to the voter at this general election , but the most important thing to the people across my constituency — from Whitehouse to Whitton , Kesgrave to Claydon and Ringshall to Rendham — whether they vote for I or not , be restore a sense of moral probity and public spiritedness to our political system . as we embark on this debate and other in this place , let we keep that in mind . before I finish , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Dr Dan Poulter . he be as dedicate a servant to the people of Suffolk and Ipswich as ever there be , both as an MP and in his second job as a consultant doctor . he use his invaluable NHS experience when he be a junior Minister in the Department of Health , and when he be on the draft Bill Committee review the Mental Health Act 1983 for the first time in 40 year . we feel the benefit of his healthcare expertise in Suffolk when he manage to save Hertismere hospital , which be previously in my constituency and be now in neighbour Waveney Valley , and when he lobby the Government for a new accident and emergency wing for Ipswich general hospital . as many people know , Dr Dan arrive in this House as a Member of my party and leave as a Member of another , but I do not feel any ill will , for another political hero of mine , Winston Churchill , perform a similar journey over 120 year ago . I do not mind say it here , Madam Deputy Speaker : I , too , hope one day to cross the Floor . before I give my whip a heart attack , I should add : not to swap political allegiance , but as part of a conservative party elect back into government , take our place on the Government Benches . that be a whip - issue line . in the meantime , though , I would like to thank my wife and my two little boy , Leo and Jasper , who I be sure be watch on BBC Parliament right now . I also thank the Doorkeepers and the Clerks . I also want to thank my mother , who have be a real troup to sit through a nearly 3 . 5 - hour debate . she look bright now than she do when I put she in a polling station as a teller . as I be say , I look forward to work with member from across the House in the pursuit of deliver for the people of this great nation . I intend to start the Front - Bench wind - up at 4 . 40 pm , but I call Stella Creasy . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the very short time available to I , let I say , after so many glorious maiden speech , that I hope that this place can rise to the occasion , in term of what we do on this Modernisation Committee . the truth be that we do not have any right as mps , yet we come here to defend the right of our constituent . that will matter , because this should be a modern workplace , safe not just for we , but for our staff , and accessible not just for we , but for anybody who come to see we ; and it should not be a place that lead we to divorce , drink , and all the other thing that new Members of Parliament may have be warn about . in one minute , let I tell the House what I think we could do through the Committee to redress the situation and give we some right . if hon . member employ young woman here , somebody will take they out for a drink to warn they about this place and the people that they should be aware of , but that be not good enough . we must enforce the finding of the Paul Kernaghan review , and we must ensure that where people face bully and sexual harassment , there be no unfairness , no favour and no political interference , because , sadly , no political party can hold its head up on that score . we must learn from other jurisdiction around the world , include New Zealand , Australia and Ireland , about make this place family - friendly . that be not just about have a workplace cr è che , but about holiday club , and know what time we will leave here and get home . no one in this place will enjoy do bedtime via FaceTime , but unless we reform this place to make it family - friendly , that be the future ahead of all hon . member and their family . let I turn to the gender - sensitive Parliament review that we sign up to in the kigali accord . we must make that happen , not just for the woman in this place , but for all the woman and man to come . there be so many thing that we can do through this Modernisation Committee , which be a welcome development , but the test will be whether we do they . I urge all hon . member , new and old , to make sure that happen . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . let I say how impressed I be by all the maiden speech that we have hear this afternoon , in particular that of the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) , who talk about the importance of restore moral probity — a relevant subject for today ' s debate . it be good to hear that he hear that subject raise on many doorstep during the election campaign ; so do I . it be good that he refer to his predecessor , Dan Poulter , who be an example to many people in this place . he use his experience in another job — I will not say a second job — to inform debate and make sure that thing say in this House be base on experience and knowledge that can only be find through the personal experience of professional like he . as Members of Parliament , we be fortunate to have one of the most satisfying job in the world . there should be no such thing as a safe seat , some kind of sinecure ; the job of MP ought to be earn through hard work and dedication . the public put their trust in each of we to be their champion and their voice . the Liberal Democrats welcome this debate on the code of conduct , and in particular the fact that it will examine second job . the primary focus of all member must be on serve those people who elect we and put we here . in recent year we have see a series of scandal that have weaken people ' s trust in politic and politician , and I welcome the fact that the Modernisation Committee will seek to restore some of that trust . aside from the scandal of the sort refer to by my hon . friend the Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , there be a tiny number of mps who be really quite absent . I want to illustrate the problem with one of the more egregious example — the case of the right hon . and learn Member for Torridge and Tavistock ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) , who be not in his place , but whom I notify that I plan to refer to he . he be a former Attorney General and a very eminent barrister with a high - profile career outside this place . it be reveal that , in 2021 , he have earn more than £ 1 million in a single year , include by represent tax haven in the Caribbean . however , he be absent from parliamentary vote because of this outside work , and in one case even vote by proxy from 4 , 000 mile away . between 2023 and 2024 , the right hon . and learn Member declare more than £ 836 , 000 of external earning for 500 hour of work — the equivalent of 66 full day ' work — while have contribute to just four debate in the whole of 2023 . in the whole of the last Parliament , he contribute to just 20 debate here in the Commons . look at Hansard , that include a contribution to just one debate in 2020 and one debate in 2021 , and there be no record of he have contribute to a debate in 18 month . that be in stark contrast to what we hear about Dr Dan Poulter . it be not a party political point . Dan Poulter contribute to 124 debate in the last Parliament and make some significant contribution with his experience as a mental health doctor . the hon . member for Tooting ( Dr Allin - Khan ) be a Labour MP and a doctor who put in shift in accident and emergency , not just to keep up her medical qualification but because that enlighten the House and inform the legislation that we debate here . no , I be take issue with that very , very small number of mps who give the rest of we a bad name by earn huge sum of money for the hour of work they put in outside of this place in what be , frankly , their first job , not their second . they and we must remember that our principal employer be the vote public in those area that we represent . be elect as an MP be a massive privilege . it be a role that we should strive to do our very utmost to fulfil . we must work night and day to repay the trust that be put in we by voter . the Modernisation Committee should ensure that we be focus first and foremost on our job here . I call the shadow Leader of the House . congratulation on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate one of your colleague at the beginning , so let I add my congratulation to you on your election to the Chair . let I start by say a huge congratulation and well do to the member on both side make some very impressive maiden speech today . the hon . member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) — I be struggle to see he in the Chamber — list all the premier league ground he intend to visit now that his team be in the premier league . he do not mention Selhurst Park , the home of Crystal Palace in the borough I represent in Parliament — an accidental omission , I be sure . my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) make an excellent maiden speech . I wish he good luck with the upcoming house move . he very wisely observed that he do not plan to place any political bet anytime soon . the hon . member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) give an excellent speech . he clearly bring to the House experience as a former chair of the Local Government Association . there be certainly no need for he to experience any impost syndrome . we hear from the hon . member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , who speak extremely eloquently about his constituency and the Edinburgh festival . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) about his support for the modernisation of Parliament and his commitment to public service here . we hear from the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , who make an excellent and very eloquent speech . the hon . member for Wolverhampton North East ( Sureena Brackenridge ) will clearly bring to bear her experience as a former deputy headteacher . the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) have possibly one of the narrow majority in Parliament , which he will no doubt be valiantly defend . we also hear from the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) . the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) pay fulsome tribute to the work of her predecessor , Andrew Stunell . the hon . member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) have already assume ministerial office . in fact , I can see his red ministerial folder on his knee — a meteoric ascent . my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) be apparently go to be the new Ed Sheeran of Parliament — that be what I take from his speech , anyway — and his mum be with we today . I do speak to a Labour Member whose mum be also here during her maiden speech a few day ago . apparently , her mum fall asleep during the precede speech . you can take that how you will . [ laughter . ] have congratulate new member on their really brilliant maiden speech , let I turn back to the substance before we . my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) speak eloquently about the importance of ensure that we take on board the long expertise of the exist House Committees , in particular the Standards Committee , which the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) also refer to at the beginning from the Liberal Democrat Front Bench . the Standards Committee be elect by the House , not appoint by whip , as the new Committee will be , and have seven lie member who bring in external experience , include , as I say early , a retired chief constable and other who bring genuine independence and expertise . it be vital that we continue to draw on the independence and experience of the Standards Committee . these be complicated issue . we hear from the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , wind up for the Liberal Democrats just a moment ago , how experience of practise medicine can help to enrich debate and inform the proceeding of the House , as Dan Poulter do when he be both a Member of Parliament and a practise doctor . such consideration need to be carefully consider . I be very much hope — I might even go so far as to say " expect " — that the Leader of the House will give the House some assurance in her wind - up speech . in particular , I seek assurance that the Procedure Committee , the Committee on Standards , the Committee of Privileges and the Administration Committee will always be invite to report to the Modernisation Committee on matter that it be due to consider ; that the Speaker will always be consult ; that the work of the Modernisation Committee will not cut across what the House of Commons Commission do ; and that the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards will be invite to make submission and give evidence where appropriate or necessary . if the Leader of the House can give strong enough such assurance about how the Committee will function , as well as an assurance that she will chair it on the basis of cross - party consensus , I be prepared not to move my amendment . I therefore wait with trembling and eager anticipation to hear what she say . I be sure I speak for we all when I say that it be critical that we maintain standard at the very high level here , to ensure that the public — our constituent — can have confidence in the work we do . I call the Leader of the House . may I congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker , and on have already make good use of the parliamentary hairdresser ? I hope that you will maintain that tradition . I thank so many member of this House for take part in this debate . we have hear some excellent maiden speech . my hon . friend the Members for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) , for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) , for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) , for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Sureena Brackenridge ) and for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) and the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) , for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) and for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) all make excellent contribution . there be always a competition about who represent the very good constituency , but of course we all know that it be actually I . trust and dedication to constituency , constituent and public service have be a common theme today . substantive point have also be raise about the modernisation agenda , for which I be really grateful . the shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , raise several issue . I welcome his engagement , which I have seek over recent day ; I discuss our proposal with he well in advance of table they . the size of the Modernisation Committee , which be the subject of opposition amendment ( c ) , have be part of the conversation about representation across the House . the current proposal be to have 14 member ; under the current algorithm , which be base on the make - up of the House , that will give nine place to the Government , three to the official Opposition and two to the third party . expand the Committee to 18 member would give 12 place to the Government party and three to the third party , but the official opposition would still have three . I look at all the number and I feel that have 14 member would give the fairest distribution among Government and Opposition party . go big still would not bring the small party into the mix , which be why I have make a very firm commitment to have ongoing dialogue and meaningful engagement with they . if the number include Chairs of other Committees , the shadow Leader of the House might actually lose his place on the Committee , because the other Committee Chairs would take up the official Opposition place , so I ask he to think about the numbering . the shadow Leader of the House ask about the Modernisation Committee ' s relationship to other Committees . it be essential to be clear about this . I have be very clear that it will be a strategic , overarch Committee . it will not seek to duplicate any of the work of other Committees , which would be a waste of everybody ' s time . instead , it will work closely with those Committees , commission their work , seek their view , ask for their report and their input and carefully consider their recommendation on all matter . I see this as a sort of clearing house , a " task and finish " group that can more quickly bring recommendation from some of those Committees to the Floor of the House and take a strategic overview of how the different issue interrelate . the Standards Committee itself recommend that in its most recent report , in which it describe the siloe and disjoint context in which we operate . the right hon . Lady ' s comment be extremely welcome , but , for absolute clarity , can she confirm that when the new Modernisation Committee intend to consider a matter , it will first invite the relevant other Committee of the House to prepare a report and come back to the Modernisation Committee with it ? on the whole , yes ; that be the intention and the hope . some of those Committees do not yet have Chairs , but that be certainly the modus operandi for which we be hope . we do not expect to be do that work ourselves , or duplicate it . the Standards Committee , which be raise early , have a completely distinct and different role because of the relationship with the lay member and with the Standards Commissioner . as I have say to the Leader of the House privately — I be sorry ; I mean the shadow Leader of the House . [ laughter . ] I be still get use to this gig . as I have say to the shadow Leader , I seek the advice of the Standards Commissioner when consider how we would tighten the rule on pay advocacy , and I have follow his advice to the letter , because I think this be critical . the Standards Commissioner would not want to sit on the Committee because it would conflict with his role , but I see his role as be central to the drawing up of any further advice , because he have to police it — that be his job . I hope that satisfy the shadow Leader of the House . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) and I have work closely together , and I greatly value her input on these issue . I think that we largely agree on most of they . we do need to take forward the recommendation on the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme review , and that would be a first task for the Committee . my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) make an erudite speech , as usual , about trust and clean up politic , and I thank he for his contribution . that be very much what we be seek to do . the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) have do invaluable work on this matter in the past in his role as a member of the Standards Committee . as I have say , I be very conscious of the work that the lay member do and the need for that to play a separate role in this context , but , as the hon . Gentleman will know , the landscape review point clearly to the need for a more strategic , join - up approach to some of these issue . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , as a newbie , present some welcome idea . she reflect the enthusiasm of many other newbie and , I think , the frustration of many of they as well . I listen to the speech of the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) from outside the Chamber . I really do value her contribution to this debate , and I look forward to work with she . I would love to have she on the Committee , but I be hopeful that we can find a way for that ongoing relationship to be meaningful and regular , and that she will be able to contribute some of the idea that she mention today in a more formal manner . my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , in a very short space of time , give some very good advice about the implication for safety and human resource on the estate , and she be right to do so . we do not hear many comment on second job , but I think we all agree that we need to take action in that regard , and I be glad to see the extent of the cross - party support for such action . I hope we will not divide the House on these issue , because I think it important for we to stand together today . we have see plenty of enthusiasm and support , and I hope that Members will now support the motion . question put and agree to . resolve , that , with effect from 25 October 2024 , paragraph 2 of chapter 4 of the Guide to the Rules relate to the conduct of member be amend to leave out : " a ) advice on public policy and current affair ; b ) advice in general term about how Parliament work ; and " . we now come to motion 5 , relate to a Modernisation Committee . I remind the House that Mr Speaker have select amendment ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) , as list on the Order Paper . if amendment ( b ) be defeat , amendment ( c ) and ( d ) automatically fall , and I will not call anyone to move they . I call the Minister to move the motion formally . motion make , and question propose , that — ( 1 ) there shall be a Select Committee , to be call the Modernisation Committee , to consider reform to House of Commons procedure , standard , and working practice ; and to make recommendation thereon ; ( 2 ) the Committee shall consist of not more than 14 Members , of which 4 will be the quorum of the Committee ; ( 3 ) member shall be nominate to the Committee by a motion in the name of the Leader of the House ; ( 4 ) unless the House otherwise order , each Member nominate to the Committee shall continue to be a member of it for the remainder of the Parliament ; ( 5 ) the Committee shall have power to send for person , paper and record ; to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of the House ; to adjourn from place to place ; to report from time to time ; and to appoint specialist adviser either to supply information which be not readily available or to elucidate matter of complexity within the Committee ' s order of reference ; ( 6 ) that this order be a Standing Order of the House until the end of the present Parliament . — ( Lucy Powell . ) amendment ( b ) have be select . I call Chris Philp . on the basis of the assurance give by the Leader of the House , I will not move the amendment . as amendment ( b ) have not be move , I will not call amendment ( c ) and ( d ) , but I will call amendment ( e ) . on the basis of the Leader of the House ' s assurance , I will not move the amendment . question put and agree to . Convention on Biological Diversity Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) may I add my voice to the concatenation across this House welcome you to your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I also welcome my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) back to this House . I be delighted to see she at the Dispatch Box as the Minister for nature . she be a most distinguished Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , and I look forward to support she and our Government in champion nature in this critical decade for the natural world . I thank she for join , just a day and a half into her new post , the meeting of the international conservation caucus , which I chair in Parliament on Tuesday . her enthusiasm for her brief , and for all that we hope this Government will deliver for the environment , be an inspiration to the dozen of mp and campaigner who crowd into what be , I be afraid , a much too small room on a very hot evening . nature be the source of life . it be the foundation of everything we have and everything we value , yet some economist talk as if the natural world be a subset of the economic one — something to be account for separately . in fact , the opposite be true : the economist ' world be a subset of the natural world . when do we last receive an invoice for pollination service from a bee ? when do the forest last invoice we for its flood protection ? however , a decline in our forest cover can affect everything from our food security to the destruction of our home . a decline in insect population can affect the yield of our crop . we use nature because it be valuable ; we abuse nature because it be free . because classical economic treat the service that nature provide as externality , it fail to properly represent either the non - market benefit of ecosystem or the environmental cost of growth . More than a decade ago , I give a speech at the Berlin summit on natural capital . I say then that the time when the Earth could support human community without difficulty be come to an end . the truth be that it have end . we live in an age of planetary boundary and tipping point . natural capital have be erode to such an extent that the complex mechanism of ecosystem service that nature provide have be compromise , and we now need to repair and restore the Earth ' s ability to support we . in simple term , that be what the convention on biological diversity have seek to do since it open for signature at the Earth summit in Rio in 1992 . it have be ratify by every member state of the United Nations , with the appalling exception of the United States of America . its aim be the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity , and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefit arise from the use of genetic resource . it have two supplementary agreement : the Cartagena protocol , adopt in 2000 , which seek to protect biological diversity from the potential risk pose by live modify organism create by modern biotechnological practice , and the 2014 Nagoya protocol , which aim to share the benefit arise from the utilisation of genetic resource in a fair and equitable way . if the CBD be establish 40 year ago , why on earth be our biodiversity in the state that it be ? the most comprehensive report ever compile on biodiversity and ecosystem service by the Intergovernmental Science - Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services tell the United Nations : " nature be decline globally at rate unprecedented in human history — and the rate of species extinction be accelerate " , and that the impact for people around the world be grave . we have not make the progress that we need to . the CBD set important goal and target to halt this frightening state of decline . I pay tribute to the Canadian Government who , at short notice , host COP15 and establish the global biodiversity framework . it set in place four goal : to halt human - induce species extinction , to use biodiversity sustainably , to share its benefit equitably , and to implement the finance of $ 700 billion a year necessary to achieve the first three goal . it also agree 23 vital target , include the 30 by 30 target to conserve and protect 30 % of the planet ' s land , sea and inland waterway by 2030 , and the reduction of perverse subsidy by $ 500 billion a year . talk be cheap . target be easy to set , but difficult to implement and even more difficult to police and enforce . that be why every country need a plan — specifically , a national biodiversity strategy and action plan , or NBSAP . revise NBSAPs must be submit in advance of COP16 in Colombia this year . the UK Government originally commit to publish the NBSAP in March and then May , but I be glad that they do not , because the change of Government should have afford official in the Department time to radically revise the draft . it be intend by Conservative Ministers to be merely a restatement of what the UK be already do , not the urgent and transformative action plan that be require to deliver on the four goal of the GBF . I thank the hon . member for secure this crucial debate and I agree with the analysis that he have set out . on his point about the need to move beyond the previous Government ' s commitment , this week , environmental group publish new economic analysis that show that almost £ 6 billion of investment be need every year in nature - friendly farming to meet legally bind nature and climate target . do he agree that it be vital for Ministers to urgently confirm that the budget for nature - friendly farming will be not only maintain but increase in this Parliament ? I be delighted to have give way to the hon . Gentleman , who make a fair and important point . the way that we be incentivise farmer and land manager , and the financial resource that we put behind that through the environmental land management scheme and other , be vital . the previous Government put a number of objective in place for the environment . I always commend their work on natural capital , the Environment Act 2021 and the Office for Environmental Protection . the Minister will know , however , that although the objective be commendable , the implementation be often lack . indeed , the Office for Environmental Protection ' s late assessment of 40 individual environmental target , which be set under the 2021 Act , be that we be on track to achieve just four . we be partially on track to achieve 11 ; we be off track for achieve 10 , and 15 other lack sufficient evidence to make an assessment . let I outline some of what I hope to see in our revised NBSAP when it be publish . although our commitment to COP15 be to protect 30 % of our land , sea and inland waterway by 2030 , only 5 % of our land be effectively protect for nature . at sea , only 8 % of the network have effective management measure in place . all four UK Administrations need to act on the recommendation of the late special protection area review to protect threaten bird specie . at sea , a special protection area sufficiency review be require to ensure that the current gap in our marine protect area network be fill . the previous Government do well to set legally bind target to increase species abundance and decrease extinction risk . however , all the devolve administration need to do so too . most important , those target must be match by cost delivery plan , which should be publish to support the UK nbsap . a nature positive , net zero future can be deliver only if action for nature and climate be hardwire into decision making . all public body must have a legal duty to help recover the natural environment . we must ensure that Government and industry take a strategic approach to plan for new energy infrastructure , which put nature at its heart , and introduce mandatory reporting against the taskforce on nature - relate financial disclosure align with global nature preservation and restoration target . in the new Government ' s first spending review , I would like a new UK nature fund to corral private sector funding to address the finance gap for nature . the Government should also commit to press forward with the forest risk commodity regulation and the renewal of important species recovery programme such as Darwin Plus and the species survival fund . the UK be highly unusual in the United Nations in that 93 % of all the biodiversity for which it bear international responsibility lie not within the UK itself , but in its overseas territory and Crown dependency . those region — incredibly rich in biodiversity though they may be — do not have the financial resource to effectively conserve their own biodiversity , yet only 5 % of the money that the UK spend on biodiversity actually go to they . that be 5 % of spend for 93 % of the biodiversity for which we be the international guardian . that can not go on and must be address in our NBSAP and the long - await publication of the UK overseas territory biodiversity strategy . it be crucial that the NBSAP be publish before the COP16 deadline , and ideally before of the 1 August deadline , which come up next week , for inclusion in the COP16 documentation . that be important to show that the UK be take its commitment to implementation of the global biodiversity framework seriously . the plan must not be a ceiling on ambition and it should be open to revision , always in an upward direction . I ask my hon . friend the Minister what step the UK be take to ensure that our NBSAP be submit by the early deadline of 1 August and be a robust and ambitious contribution to the delivery of the global target . the Nagoya protocol and access and benefit sharing be now encompass in the convention by the work on digital sequence information on genetic resource . the truth be that the pace of discussion be unacceptable . we be now a decade on from Nagoya and there be almost no agreement . there be agreement only that a fund should be set up to share a tiny fraction of the benefit make by sector such as pharmaceutical and food production . the fact that the co - chair can find agreement among the party only to such a fund contribute to target 19 be a joke . target 19 talk of $ 200 billion a year by 2030 be mobilise to support biodiversity conservation . that be in six year ' time , yet at this point — 10 year on from Nagoya — we can not agree whether the trigger for payment of such money should be at the point of access of the genetic datum , the point of use , or the point of commercialisation . there be no agreement as to how the scale of contribution to the fund could be determine — whether they should be 1 % or 0 . 1 % , or whether the levy should apply to profit , turnover or revenue . it be an absolute mess . I hope that the Minister will make progress on digital sequence information , a signature of the UK ' s work at COP16 this October . but more than that , I hope she will speak with our Chancellor and our Secretary of State for Business and Trade to arrange for a high - level summit to haul in the chief executive of big pharma who be drag their foot on this issue and encourage their sponsor government to do the same . we have four year in which to deliver this target . it require a whole of Government commitment to ensure that we succeed . the issue link to one of the specific feature of COP16 in Cali , where I know the colombian Government wish to make great progress . framework target 22 aim at ensure the full , equitable and inclusive representation and participation of indigenous people and local community in decision - make process that be relate to biodiversity , and it aim to foster inclusive , participatory and right - base approach to conservation . I be extremely grateful to the colombian ambassador , who join we on Tuesday evening and speak movingly about the need to ensure that those people who have , for eon , be the guardian of so much of the planet ' s biological diversity should not find that their traditional knowledge be commercialise for other ' gain as they be leave impoverished , their territory polluted , and their way of life steal from they . I hope the Minister will make space in her diary at the COP to meet the leader of those community in Cali . that bring I to the question of who in Government will be attend COP16 . I know the Prime Minister and other senior Ministers have be invite . what an amazing signal it would send to the rest of the world that the UK be back , seriously engage on the international stage with the most critical threat face our planet , if the Prime Minister be to lead our UK delegation and if not only the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be to attend , but the Foreign Secretary . the CBD have sometimes be see as the Cinderella COP to the Climate Change Convention . in truth , they be twin crisis in which each turbocharge the other . the loss of biodiversity will deplete all of the provision resource and ecosystem service on which human life depend . this be not just an environmental problem , but an economic and a security problem . I have another reason for wish that the Prime Minister would go to Cali . I hope he will announce that the UK be willing to host the next cbd COP — COP17 — in London in 2026 . the fourth goal that be set in Montreal at COP15 be the goal of finance and resource mobilisation . where well to make progress on the financial framework for deliver our 2030 and 2050 target than the City of London — the world ' s financial centre ? government can not do everything on their own . the role of the private sector in mobilise the resource of business and industry be vital . I refer the Minister to the " Financing Nature " report produce by Henk Paulson , the former US Treasury Secretary . he talk of the " clear and compelling economic case " for finance nature conservation . although it be important that business recognise the value of ecosystem service , it must appreciate that it be far cheap to prevent environmental damage than to repair it afterwards . that be why it be important that the Government make it mandatory for company to report against the Taskforce on Nature - relate Financial Disclosures . London be the centre of the green bond market . it be the right place and this be the right government to mobilise the financial flow on which the sustainability of our planet depend . COP17 will take place mid - way through the implementation of the Kunming - Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework — possibly the most important moment for take stock of progress towards 2030 , and a chance to work in partnership with all 196 country that be party to the CBD to ensure that we be move at the necessary speed and scale to meet our 2030 goal . the Government be proudly elect on a promise to ratify the global ocean treaty , improve access to nature , expand nature - rich habitat such as wetland and peat bog , take step to clean UK water , meet UK Environment Act target , and improve animal welfare by ban trail hunting and the import of hunt trophy . we should be proud of that ambition . as we make good on those promise , we can proudly resume the global leadership role that so many around the globe be urge we to take by host COP17 . by do so , we will become even well place in the future . we often think that right be thing that apply only to people . that be not true . company have right . trust and institution have right — right safeguard by their guardian and trustee . at the heart of the convention on biological diversity be the idea that nature have right , and we be but the guardian and trustee of those right . I be confident that the Minister will be an exceptional guardian for nature , and I look forward to her response . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your election , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) for his very kind word to I , and for secure today ' s debate . what an incredible privilege it be to stand here as the Minister for nature in a Labour Government who will put this at the front and centre of our national mission . my hon . friend be a true champion of nature at home and abroad , and as a distinguished former Minister for biodiversity he have make tireless effort to hold we , the UK , and all party to the convention on biological diversity to the very high standard . he deserve our thank and commendation for that work . I also thank he for host the introduction to the International Conservation Caucus Foundation on Tuesday , where I have the chance to meet both the colombian ambassador to the UK and representative from Canada house . it be an important reminder of the fact that reverse nature loss be a global priority — one that we can achieve only by work in partnership with our friend around the world . we will need leadership , participation and commitment in equal measure to halt and reverse biodiversity loss and climate change . as the MP for Coventry East , I be delighted to have the opportunity to listen and learn today on the UK ' s approach to the next meeting on the convention on biological diversity , COP16 , which , as my hon . Friend say , take place in Colombia this October . it be a unique opportunity to begin to re - establish the UK as a global leader on nature and climate co - operation . protect and restore biodiversity begin at home . almost half our bird specie and a quarter of our mammal specie that have be assess be at risk of extinction here in the UK . precious landscape in our national park be in decline , with river , lake and sea awash with sewage and chemical pollution . we feel that loss and destruction of nature wherever we live . we remember our childhood , look out of the window at murmuration of starling — across the Warwickshire countryside , in my case — and we think about how rare it be now to hear the cheeping of a sparrow in our garden . More of our land be underwater , with our child get sick after swim in our sea and river . this Labour Government be laser focus on restore and protect nature . in England , we will deliver a plan to hit the Environment Act target , halt the decline of specie by 2030 . we will honour our international agreement to protect 30 % of our land and sea by the same date , and we will ensure that England ' s environmental improvement plan be fit for purpose . we will work collaboratively with our colleague in the devolved administration on the share challenge and opportunity that restore nature bring . we will do that in partnership with civil society , community , business and volunteer , to harness their creativity and insight . I thank the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) for secure this debate . I recently attend a session lead by the Wildlife Trust in my constituency on exactly the depletion about which the Minister be speak . in my previous role as a county councillor I be aware of the previous Government ' s effort around local nature recovery partnership and strategy . can Minister clarify whether it be the intention of this government to persist with those and , if it be , whether they will be adequately fund ? one of their feature under the last Government be a lack of funding to allow they to have the impact that we would all hope they would . I thank the hon . gentleman for the intervention . the Secretary of State be today visit the Purple Horizons project in the west midland , an example of a huge nature recovery project extend across 10 , 000 hectare of vital heathland , wetland , woodland and grassland . that be an example of the partnership work that the hon . Gentleman talk about , with the local Wildlife Trust there , the council , the University of Birmingham and Lichfield district council . it be my firm intention , as we move towards the autumn statement and the spending review next year , that nature should take its place firmly at the heart of those discussion . nature be central to each of the mission that define this new Government . we know that be in nature promote wellbee and tackle poor mental health . clean air help to cut hospital emission . protect landscape that capture and store carbon help we to meet our net zero target , and train people for new job in new industry , restore and protect the natural world , will protect our economic growth . nature be the monopoly provider of everything we need to exist , as my hon . friend the Member for Brent West have already say , but we stand at a moment in history where nature need we to defend it . without it there be no economy , no food , no health , no society . we be not merely observer ; we be an integral part of nature and our future depend on protect it . I look forward to work with my brilliant team of official and my new ministerial colleague at DEFRA to tackle the nature crisis . at COP15 in Montreal , 196 country agree the landmark Global Biodiversity Framework to halt and reverse biodiversity loss by 2030 . we look forward to COP16 and there be much on the agenda . my hon . Friend ask about attendance . four minister from three different Departments attend the last conference on biodiversity . we do not yet have a detailed programme of event in Cali , which be completely normal at this stage , but once we do we will confirm precisely who will attend , and we will of course make that information available to the House . hon . member can rest assure , however , that this Government will send a very senior delegation from across Government so that the rest of the world will be in no doubt as to the crucial importance we place on the summit and on global co - operation on nature loss . there be 33 item on the agenda for this COP , cover everything from marine protect area to plant conservation . UK team will be active on all of they , drive consensus and find ambitious agreement to help to deliver the goal and target of the Global Biodiversity Framework . we must speed up and scale up action at home and abroad . however , there be three priority we be follow closely . first , the negotiation on digital sequence information , or DSI , aim to ensure that those community that make available genetic datum from biodiversity — tree , plant and fungus — receive benefit from do so . this be a unique opportunity for global science and nature conservation : payment for use genetic information could unlock billion of dollar of finance for nature every year and ensure that nature be protect for future generation of not just scientist , but forest dweller . UK negotiator be chair the negotiation on this complex issue , and be make good progress towards ensure that this COP will be able to take the exciting step of launch a new global fund for nature action . on implementation , all party need to take domestic action to fully implement the GBF . the first step be to publish the national biodiversity strategy and action plan , or NBSAPs . we have be work hard with the devolved administration to prepare a UK - wide plan — a single document — to show the policy and strategy that be in place . we will aim to publish that nbsap as soon as possible ahead of COP16 . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her response . she will know that the reason for the 1 August deadline be to show our intent for the UK to be back out there at the forefront of this debate , which be precisely what she be talk about . I urge she to publish the plan by that date , so that it get out with the other document , even if it have to be revise later on — it be an iterative process and something that we can revise upwards — because it really be important that we show that intent . I be in passionate agreement with my hon . friend . I assure he that it be one of the first submission that I have see as a Minister . we will absolutely do our good , and I will write to he should there be any issue around publication . we need to mobilise finance from all source and align global financial flow with the global biodiversity framework . work with other donor , we have collectively pledge over £ 250 million to the new global biodiversity framework fund . the UK be contribute an initial £ 10 million . we be work with the multilateral development bank to mainstream — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .