Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Crime Prevention what step his Department be take to help prevent crime in Wales . the Government be commit to invest in our police to drive down crime across Wales . that include an extra 1 , 127 police officer for Welsh force under the police uplift programme . approximately £ 9 million have be allocate to Welsh force through the safe street fund , target neighbourhood crime , violence against woman and girl , and antisocial behaviour . antisocial behaviour have a devastating impact on community across Wales and in Cardiff North . my constituent , Sarah , suffer a miscarriage due to the stress of repeat antisocial behaviour . she be not entitle to any support , because this government consider those who suffer from antisocial behaviour to be second - class victim . my amendment to change that in the Victims and Prisoners Bill be reject by this Government . how can they claim to prevent crime while fail to support victim ? I assure the hon . Lady that victim of antisocial behaviour be as much victim of crime as anyone else . I absolutely stand with victim of antisocial behaviour ; it be a matter that we take very seriously indeed . I have not see the amendment table by the hon . Lady , but she must be aware that this Government have bring in long prison sentence for the most serious crime , and make it easy for the police to arrest people carry out crime — matter that the Labour party have vote against . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . the chief constable of Dyfed – Powys police recently tell the Welsh Affairs Committee that Dyfed - Powys police force now have more police officer than at any time in its history , follow the UK Government ' s decision to invest in more officer and increase the local number of officer by 154 . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Dyfed - Powys police force on reach that milestone , and on all the hard work it do in help to make Pembrokeshire one of the safe part of the country ? my right hon . friend will be as pleased as I be that the Government have deliver on their 2019 manifesto commitment to recruit 20 , 000 extra police officer , and I commend the work of police officer in Dyfed - Powys police . I have the privilege and honour to go to one of the pass out ceremony recently , and I commend the work that it do . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Wales . it be not just antisocial behaviour that be wreak havoc across Wales . shoplift in Wales be also soar , and in the year to March 2023 it be up by 31 % . why will the Secretary of State ' s Government not adopt Labour ' s plan to scrap the minimum £ 200 - worth of steal good rule , which be introduce by his Government in 2014 and allow gang of shoplifter to escape punishment and put shop worker at risk ? I agree with the hon . Lady that shoplifting be a serious offence , and repeat shoplifter and those who go out in organise gang must be deal with by the full force of the law . that be why I welcome the fact that this Government have bring in long prison sentence for people carry out the most serious offence . I do not understand why the hon . Lady will not join the Government in support long prison sentence . perhaps she should talk to her colleague in the Welsh Government who seem to be against build any extra prison place . the Secretary of State know that the prison estate across Wales be not just full , but that overcrowding be significantly above safe limit . with his Government have to commandeer police cell , with judge be tell to jail few people , and with criminal — include those convict of assault — be release early on the instruction of his Justice Secretary , how can the Welsh public have any faith that they will be protect ? the prison population have increase as a direct result of policy that the Government have implement , to ensure that those commit the most serious offence spend more time in prison . that be something that the hon . Lady should be supportive of . she need to talk to her colleague in the Welsh Government , who have state clearly in write that they be completely against build any prison place . this government be build emergency prison place and fill up prison , because people who commit serious offence deserve to go to prison . the Labour party in the Welsh Government be say clearly that it be totally oppose to build any extra prison anywhere . economic link : Wales and the North - west what step the Government be take to improve economic link between Wales and the north - west . this Government be commit to strengthen the economy of north Wales and north - west England . we have recently announce that we will invest £ 36 billion in Network North , include £ 1 billion to electrify the north Wales main line . that will improve connectivity across the region , bring many part of north Wales within one hour of Manchester and Liverpool by rail . the announcement of the electrification of the north Wales main line will help to improve transport link between this region and the north - west of England , support economic growth , tourism and job across both area . do my hon . friend agree that resident across Wales and my constituent in Blackpool will see real improvement in their local transport infrastructure as part of their share of this £ 36 billion that be available ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . North Wales often feel overlook by the Welsh Government . indeed , the Welsh Government have say that the electrification of the north Wales line be not their priority . just as it be conservative Governments who build key element of the A55 in the 1980 and 1990 , we now see a Conservative Government invest far in the infrastructure and prospect of north Wales and north - west England . connectivity be key to underpin that economic growth , and the railway line between north Wales , through my constituency in St Helens and on to Manchester should epitomise that , but unfortunately it do not seem to be work at the minute . it be frequently overcrowded , and there be cancellation at the Manchester end and at the Chester end . will the Minister speak to his colleague in the Department for Transport as well as Transport for Wales , so that we might make some progress and make sure that my constituent can get to work and this line can deliver economic growth for the north - west and north Wales ? of course , improve rail be not simply about the rail infrastructure ; it be also about the train operating company and how they operate . the hon . Gentleman be right that Transport for Wales have struggle from time to time . I can reassure he that I do have discussion with it . in fact , I be also meet the rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) later today , when I will reiterate those concern . I welcome the shadow Minister to her new position . thank you , Mr Speaker . strong economic link be dependent on the Government actually have an economic plan , but the Conservatives ' track record speak for itself . they cancel the electrification of the main line to Swansea , they be spend half a billion pound but still potentially make up to 3 , 000 steelworker redundant and their pitiful semiconductor strategy do not even give we a bit part on the world stage . why should anyone believe that their late promise make for north Wales at a desperate party conference be worth the fag packet they be write on ? I welcome the hon . member to her position . she share Welsh lesson with I , and I hope she will continue to do so . I urge she to be somewhat more positive about the £ 1 billion that have be announce for infrastructure development in north Wales by mean of the electrification . also , in term of the steel industry at Port Talbot , the half a billion pound have save many job and mean that decarbonisation can occur . HS2 be " go to benefit Wales , it ' s go to benefit people in North Wales who will benefit from well access at Crewe to London . " that be the Secretary of State ' s central argument for withhold billion of pound from Wales by claim that HS2 benefit we . now that the link at Crewe be another casualty of Tory chaos , will Wales Office Ministers stay true to their own logic and urge the Treasury to class hs2 as English - only ? as the right hon . Lady know , rail infrastructure be not devolve . I would argue that investment in Great Britain ' s rail infrastructure be of value to those in north Wales and the rest of Wales . furthermore , HS2 be an important connection to the west midland from London . passenger from London to north Wales be likely to still use that . we all know that the money that have be commit be illustrative . in a major boost to Plaid Cymru ' s campaign , the National Infrastructure Commission for Wales have propose devolve the Crown estate and reinveste profit in community through a sovereign wealth fund . the commission criticise the current system of wealth transfer from the poor country in Britain to Westminster as " illogical and bizarre " . whose side be the Minister on : Welsh community or a system that extract our natural wealth ? we have have this discussion on previous occasion in various setting , but I would argue that the Crown estate allow this country to share risk and opportunity that it deal with . it do a fantastic job and I simply do not agree . cross - border Healthcare : Welsh Government Policy what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of Welsh Government policy on health authority on cross - border healthcare . what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of Welsh Government policy on health authority on cross - border healthcare . of course , I work within the NHS in north - east Wales and west Cheshire and see the stark reality of the disparity in healthcare service between the two . it be concern that the Welsh Government have miss their target to eliminate two - year wait in most specialty and that more than 27 , 000 patient have be wait over two year for treatment in Wales , compare with circa 280 in the whole of England . the Health Secretary have offer to consider request from the Welsh Government to use alternate provider in England to reduce waiting list and the distress that they bring . with the Welsh Labour Government face cut to their NHS as a decision of their own , do the Minister not find it extraordinary that they be look at spend £ 122 million on new politician and £ 33 million on a blanket 20 mph speed limit that nobody vote for in Wales ? I entirely agree with my right hon . friend . it be scandalous that the Labour Welsh Government be prioritise spending on more politician in Cardiff Bay as well as an unpopular 20 mph default speed limit . their decision mean less funding for the NHS , education and other important devolved service . they have the potential instead to invest in important capital project such as the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Rhyl . they must re - examine their agenda . it get bad : the UK Government have twice offer the Welsh Labour Government help in reduce patient waiting list for important medical procedure , but neither offer have be take up . will my hon . friend the Minister confirm that , in fact , that offer still stand and that patient in Wales who be stuck and suffer on waiting list have not be forget by the UK Government ? have speak with the Department of Health and Social Care , I can confirm that the offer still stand . my hon . friend will find it of interest to know that the Labour Welsh Government do write in response to the late offer several week after that offer be make . unfortunately , the Minister do not confirm whether they would accept the offer . in the interest of ten of thousand of patient , I strongly encourage they to do so . cost of live what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Wales . what assessment he have make of the impact of increase in the cost of live on people in Wales . I have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague on a range of issue , include the cost of living . the Government have make certain that the state pension , benefit and the minimum wage have all rise in line with inflation . last winter , the Government ' s energy support scheme see they pay about half the average fuel bill for homeowner across the United Kingdom . the Bridgend food bank and the Baobab Bach food pantry be run out of food . my constituent in Ogmore and those across the Bridgend borough literally can not afford to pay for the weekly shop . what work be the Secretary of State do to tackle the significant access - to - food crisis that be impact constituent in the Bridgend county borough and right across Wales ? as I have already mention , the Government have make sure that pension , benefit and the minimum wage have rise in line with inflation . there have be other payment as well , with £ 900 to household on benefit , £ 300 to pensioner and £ 100 to those in household where there have be disability . the Government have make certain at all time to prioritise the least well off . may I respectfully suggest that the hon . Gentleman should listen to the early question and suggest that the Welsh Government stop spend money on extra politician and put that back into community where it be need ? polling of 2 , 000 people by Public Health Wales find that about eight in 10 Welsh citizen be either worried or very worried about the rise cost of living , with almost half say that it will have a negative impact on their mental health . similar concern have be express in Scotland . what consideration have the Secretary of State and his Cabinet colleague give to the SNP ' s call for a £ 400 energy rebate as winter approach ? as I say , in addition to the Government ' s priority on support the least well - off and the fact that the Government pay around half of people ' s energy bill during the last winter , we will continue to prioritise those who be have difficulty . if the hon . Lady be really worried about a cost of live crisis and the impact on energy , she will do well to revisit her party ' s policy of get rid of the oil and gas industry in the UK , include in Scotland — something that would cost 200 , 000 job and have a terrible impact on energy price for homeowner across the United Kingdom . the Wrexham - Flintshire investment zone bid could bring huge benefit to my region , include more and well - pay job . an investment zone require collaboration between the Welsh and UK Governments . there be a possibility that the UK Government could support two zone in Wales , but the Welsh Government have yet to give I a commitment to a second zone . if they do , will the UK Government also commit ? I can assure my hon . friend that I have make a very strong case to Cabinet colleague for two investment zone in Wales . she be right that we need the co - operation of the Welsh Labour Government . I suggest that she , and any member who represent north Wales , write to the Welsh Labour Government ' s economic development Minister and suggest that Welsh Government prioritise two investment zone for Wales . we would be delighted to work with they when they get around to do that . strength of the Union what recent assessment he have make of the strength of the Union . what recent assessment he have make of the strength of the Union . our United Kingdom be strong than ever . it be a testament to the strength of the Union that the UK Government have be able to support people across the country , include with £ 94 billion to respond to cost of living challenge . at the Welsh Affairs Committee this morning , the First Minister Mark Drakeford blame the UK Government for not give adequate financial support to the Welsh Government in time of high inflation and a cost of living crisis . can the Secretary of State tell we how much his Department be spend on promote the UK Government in Wales ? why do he think that be a well use of taxpayer ' money than fund service for the people of Wales ? I be happy to receive an answer by email if he do not have that information to hand . first , I can assure the hon . Lady that the Welsh Labour Government be receive a record - break settlement of more than £ 18 billion , and 20 % more per head to spend on public service than be spend in England . perhaps the First Minister should explain why we have long NHS waiting list in Wales and why education standard be low . as far as spending on public affair and promotion be concern , I can assure the hon . Lady that a far great amount be spend by the Welsh Labour Government than be ever spend by the Wales Office . frankly , the proof of the strength of the Union be demonstrate by the fact that my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) have join the Conservative and Unionist party , and she be very welcome . I have raise the damaging effect of the UK ' s Brexit on the port of Holyhead and the north Wales economy in this Chamber 26 time . Holyhead have be disadvantage by the lack of a green lane for export to Northern Ireland . in August , at last , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs confirm to I that there will now be a green lane for good travel from Wales to Northern Ireland through Holyhead and the Republic . I emphasise , as a precaution , that this be not a freeport issue — the Secretary of State be very keen on that . rather , what specifically be he do to promote and enable those new procedure for Holyhead ? I do not quite hear all that , but on the port in Ynys M ô n , I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will take some comfort from the fact that the United Kingdom economy have grow more quickly outside the European Union than that of many nation that have remain in it . the Government have show their absolute commitment to both north Wales and Ynys M ô n through their development of a freeport project for the area and the announcement of £ 1 billion for electrification of the north Wales railway line , which will help to bring job and investment into north Wales . Barry be Wales ' s large town , but it have be ignore by the Welsh Government for decade . it have significant regeneration challenge , like many place . I congratulate my right hon . friend on award Barry town regeneration status , but can he reassure I that that do not preclude Barry from benefit from level up funding ? obviously , I welcome the announcement , but my right hon . friend be far too modest , since he have be knock on the door of the Wales Office and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities for a very long time to demand extra funding for Barry . he make a very strong case for that , and I assure he that the UK Government will continue to listen to he . cross - border transport link between Wales and England be a key part of the strength of the Union . do my right hon . friend agree that cross - border project , such as the Pant and Llanymynech bypass and the long term ambition to dual the a483 - A5 pass through Clwyd South and North Shropshire , be vital ? the United Kingdom Government be absolutely determined to support infrastructure project in Wales . we have do so through the levelling - up fund . it will happen again through the share prosperity fund and it have , of course , be happen through the growth deal . what we do need be a Welsh Labour Government that will support infrastructure . that be why I find it so disappointing that the Welsh Labour Government have rule out build any new road ever again . it worry I greatly that that be see as a blueprint for the rest of the United Kingdom . energy cost what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on energy cost for ( a ) household and ( b ) business in Wales . the Secretary of State and I have regular discussion with Cabinet colleague on a range of issue , include energy cost . the Government spend nearly £ 40 billion protect household and business from high energy bill over last winter , mean that between October 2022 and June 2023 , a typical household see half of their energy bill pay for by the Government . the Government do not listen to the renewable energy sector , which repeatedly warn they that the budget set for this year ' s offshore wind auction be too low to attract bidder to develop offshore wind in the Celtic sea . can the Minister tell the House why that advice be ignore , lead to not a single bid be make ? what I can tell the hon . Lady be that it be an issue of discussion that the Secretary of State and I be engage with . we understand the importance of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea and it will progress in due course . Speed Limits what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the Restricted Roads ( 20 mph Speed Limit ) ( Wales ) order 2022 on the Welsh economy . what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the Restricted Roads ( 20 mph Speed Limit ) ( Wales ) order 2022 on the Welsh economy . no sensible person would oppose a 20 mph speed limit where there be a case to be make on the basis of safety outside hospital , old people ' s home or school , but the blanket decision by the Welsh Government , which have be oppose by over 460 , 000 signatory to the large petition in the Senedd ' s history , be deeply unpopular , deeply expensive and completely wrong . give that more than 450 , 000 people in Wales have sign an online petition against the Labour Welsh Government ' s blanket 20 mph roll - out , do my right hon . friend agree that devolve administration across the United Kingdom should listen to the people and the community they serve , rather than their own narrow centralised agenda ? I agree completely with what my hon . Friend say . the Welsh Labour Government need to listen to what people have say about this and they need to listen also to all those who be oppose to this ridiculous war on motorist , which be not just about a 20 mph speed limit but a block on any new road be build and extra road charge . Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] can I just say to Conservative Members that the hon . Member be in the middle of ask a question ? it be disrespectful to your own side . you should think about what you be do . People should wait . just because you want to cheer somebody come in . do it at the right time . that be totally inappropriate . thank you , Mr Speaker . labour like to showcase Welsh Labour as its blueprint for the rest of the United Kingdom . do the Secretary of State not agree that this be yet more evidence of its war against motorist wherever they be : Wales , Dudley North or the rest of the United Kingdom ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . we need to be very careful of this blueprint for Britain , which include a ban on new road , a ban on meal deal , a tourism tax , road charge , over £ 100 million be spend on more politician , a £ 1 , 600 minimum wage be pay to some asylum seeker and a ban on news channel in the Assembly that Senedd Members disagree with . that be not a blueprint for Britain ; it be a recipe for disaster . I hope the people of Wales will take note and vote conservative in the next election . mortgage interest rate increase what discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the impact of increase in mortgage interest rate on homeowner in Wales . the Government recognise that this be a concern time for mortgage holder , especially those who be due to come to the end of a fix deal in the immediate future . we be support borrower who be struggle with their mortgage payment through the new mortgage charter . it set out the standard that signatory lender will adopt , include new flexibility to help customer manage their mortgage payment over a short period . throughout Scotland , people be pay the price of the Westminster - make cost of live crisis as a result of this Conservative Government and the action of the Tories in crash the economy last year . will the Government bring forward that mortgage interest relief scheme for my constituent , and perhaps even for those in East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ? the Government have , of course , provide " support for mortgage interest " loan for those receive income - relate benefit , and the pre - action protocol help to make repossession less likely . that be in addition to the action that I have already outline . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 18 October . I know that the whole House will have be shock by the scene at Al - Ahli Hospital . as my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have say , we be work independently and with our ally to find out what have happen . I be sure that member will raise further question about this during today ' s session . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . may I associate myself , and the whole of my party here , with what have be say about the horror and the unfold tragedy of last night ' s bombing of the hospital in Gaza ? the Rafah border crossing from besiege Gaza into Egypt have be hit by several israeli airstrike , cause absolute terror to those who urgently need the crossing to be open in order to escape . Nadia El - Nakla , an elect councillor in my city of Dundee and the wife of Scotland ' s First Minister , have have to take call from her parent Elizabeth and Maged , who , like all other trap in Gaza , have be describe the horror of death and indiscriminate killing everywhere . member of Nadia ' s family be hit yesterday by a rocket from a drone , and her mother be say her final goodbyes this morning , add : " last night be the end for I , well if my heart stop and then I will be at peace , I can ' t take another night . " with military action intensify and the death toll rise rapidly , the Prime Minister ' s first responsibility must be to bring british citizen home . can he please give his personal assurance that every single step be be take to open the Rafah crossing , both for humanitarian aid and to enable UK national like Nadia ' s family to flee ? the thought of everyone in the House will of course be with the family affect by what be happen in Israel and in Gaza , and I can give the hon . Gentleman that assurance : we be do everything in our power to ensure the safety of british national who be catch up in all this . that include my call with leader across the region , particularly the conversation about open the Rafah border crossing — which be why I make talk to President Sisi a priority last week — and we continue to engage in dialogue with both the Israelis and the Egyptians about the crossing . I be proud to live in the most successful multi - racial democracy in the world , but it sadden I , and I think it shame the whole House , that british Jews have be subject to such vile abuse and hatred in recent day . antisemitism and all hate crime fly in the face of british value , and we should not allow event abroad , no matter how horrific they be , to be use to sow seed of division in our own country . while I welcome all the action that my right hon . friend be take to fight hate crime and to bring people together , may I ask he to consider urgently an immediate and specific policy of revoke the visa of any foreign national who commit an act of antisemitism or any other hate crime ? I completely agree with my right hon . friend , who have himself do so much over the year to fight antisemitism . the increase in the number of such incident that we have see over the past week be utterly sicken , and this Government will do whatever it take to keep our jewish community safe . we have provide an additional £ 3 million to support the Community Security Trust , we be work with the police to ensure that hate crime and the glorification of terror be meet by the full force of the law , and under our exist immigration rule we have the power to cancel a person ' s presence in the UK if it be not conducive to the public good . we will not tolerate this hatred — not in this country , not in this century . I call the Leader of the Opposition . can I start by warmly welcome my hon . friend the new Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) ? the news last night of hundred kill at the baptist hospital in Gaza be incredibly distressing , but it be much bad for the people of Gaza . their fear that there be no place of safety be profound . international law must be uphold , and that mean hospital and civilian life must be protect . last night the Foreign Secretary say that the UK will work with our ally to find out what have happen . I know that this only happen last night , but can the Prime Minister please tell we when he think he might be able to update the House on progress with that work ? I know that the whole House will have be shock by the scene at Al - Ahli Hospital . any loss of innocent life be a dreadful tragedy and everyone will be think both of those who have lose their life and of the family they leave behind . we should not rush to judgment before we have all the fact on this awful situation . every member will know that the word we say here have an impact beyond this House . this morning , I meet the National Security Adviser and the Chair of the Joint Intelligence Committee , and I can tell the right hon . and learn Gentleman that our intelligence service have be rapidly analyse the evidence to independently establish the fact . we be not in a position at this point to say more than that , but I can tell he that we be work at pace and co - operate and collaborate with our ally on this issue as we look to get to the bottom of the situation . we will also continue all our effort to get humanitarian aid into the region . I thank the Prime Minister for his answer . the terrible news last night come as we be still mourn the terrorist attack on Israel last week , with Jews take hostage , mutilate , slaughter . yesterday I meet the family of some of the british hostage hold by Hamas . every minute of every hour of every day , they hope for good news but fear the bad . they know that the life of their love one be in the hand of murderer . it be unimaginable agony . Israel have a right — a duty — to defend itself from Hamas , keep its people safe and bring the hostage home , but be it not clear that if Hamas have a single concern for human life , a single concern for the safety of the palestinian people , they would never have take these hostage , and that they should release they immediately ? it be important for we consistently to remember that Israel have suffer a shockingly brutal terrorist attack , and it be Hamas , and Hamas alone , who be responsible for this conflict . our thought be rightly with those who have be take hostage and their family . the distress they be feel will be unimaginable for all those affect . I will be meet some of the family and offer they all the support of the British Government to get their relative home . we be work around the clock with our partner and ally to secure their freedom and , importantly , in among my other regional call , I speak specifically with the Emir of Qatar yesterday on this very issue , which we discuss at length . the qatari government be take a lead in work intensely to help release hostage use their contact in the region , and we be work closely with they to ensure the safe return of the british hostage . yesterday I also meet charity with staff work in Gaza and hear their account of the harrowing humanitarian crisis : child flee their home ; hospital barely able to function . the light be go out , and the innocent civilian of Gaza be terrified that they will die in the darkness , out of sight . international law must always be follow . Hamas be not the palestinian people , and the palestinian people be not Hamas . do the Prime Minister agree that medicine , food , fuel and water must get into Gaza immediately ? this be an urgent situation , and innocent Palestinians need to know that the world be not just simply watch , but act to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe . as I say on Monday , an acute humanitarian crisis be unfold to which we must respond . it be right that we support the palestinian people , because they be victim of Hamas too . that be why we have provide a furth £ 10 million in humanitarian aid for people in the region , and we be work on pre - emptively move aid and relief team to Egypt , specifically to the el - Arish airfield . we be work with local partner like the Egyptian Red Crescent and the United Nations , primarily , and deploy Navy asset to the region , as well as explore how we can support logistical requirement . I have also raise the issue of humanitarian access , as a priority , in all my conversation with every leader in the region . we will continue to work with they to get aid to where it be need as quickly as possible . as have be allude to , since Hamas ' s terrorist attack our country have see a disgusting rise in antisemitism : jewish business attack , jewish school mark with red paint and jewish family hide who they be . and we have see an appalling surge in Islamophobia : racist graffiti , mosque force to ramp up security , and british Muslims and Palestinians speak to as if they be terrorist . do the Prime Minister agree with I that every member of this House have a duty to work in their constituency and across the country to say no to this hate and to ensure that every British Jew and every british Muslim know they can live their life free from fear and free from discrimination here in their own country ? all of we in this House can play our part in stamp out those who seek to cause division and hate in our society . we will make sure that we continue fund the Community Security Trust and the equivalent protective security grant that protect mosque and other place of worship for the islamic community in the UK . that funding be increase early this year . we will also remain in dialogue with the police to make sure they be aware of the full tool at their disposal to arrest those who perpetrate hate crime and who incite racial or other religious violence . there be no place for that in our society , and I know this House will stand united in make sure those who do this face the full force of the law . we do not want this conflict to harm we here at home , and we do not want it to escalate in the middle east , where there have be too much bloodshed , too much darkness , for too long . a two - state solution — a palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel — feel more distant than ever , but it remain the only way through . do the Prime Minister agree that , because hope be at its thin , we must work our hard to ensure that the voice of division and despair be sideline and that , however difficult it seem , the hope of a political path to peace be maintain ? it be precisely because it be that vision of a more hopeful , peaceful future that Hamas have try to destroy that we must redouble our effort to try to bring that future about . in all the conversation that the Foreign Secretary and I have have with regional leader , we have emphasise our commitment to make sure that we make progress on all the avenue that will lead towards that peaceful future . that have be a feature of our dialogue , and I be confident there be willingness in the region not to escalate this crisis beyond deal with Hamas , the terrorist organisation , and to strive very hard towards a future where Palestinians and Israelis can co - exist peacefully , side by side , and look forward to a future fill with dignity , security and prosperity . this be a crisis where life hang in the balance and where the enemy of peace and democracy would like nothing more than for we to become divided and to abandon our value . do the Prime Minister agree that , during this grave crisis , the House must strive to speak with one voice in condemnation of terror , in support of Israel ' s right to self - defence and for the dignity of all human life , which can not be protect without humanitarian access to those suffering in Gaza and the constant maintenance of the rule of international law ? I agree . we will , in this House , speak with one voice in condemn Hamas for perpetrate a shockingly brutal terrorist attack and cause untold suffering for many . as the right hon . and learn Gentleman say , we stand united in support Israel ' s right to defend itself , to protect its people and to act against terrorism . unlike Hamas , the israeli President have make it very clear that Israel ' s armed force will operate in accordance with international law . we will continue to urge the Israelis to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian , while remember , importantly , that it be Hamas who be cruelly embed themselves in civilian population . may I associate myself with the word of the Prime Minister , and commend he and the Foreign Secretary for the work they be do to find a peaceful settlement in the middle east ? may I also welcome the Prime Minister ' s decision to provide £ 12 billion - worth of funding for east - west high - speed rail line between Manchester and Liverpool , and his focus on great northern town as well as city in the north ? will he ensure that town such as Warrington benefit fully from this rail upgrade and that a hub station at Warrington Bank Quay link Northern Powerhouse Rail to the west coast main line remain a key part of the Network North ? I thank my hon . friend for his continued campaign to improve rail service in Warrington . he be right : we will be invest £ 12 billion to well connect Manchester and Liverpool . that would allow for the delivery of Northern Powerhouse Rail , exactly as previously plan , include high - speed line , which would provide well rail connection for the people live in northern town such as Warrington . I know that he will be discuss this far when he meet the rail Minister . I call the Scottish National party leader . we all continue to unequivocally condemn the abhorrent terrorist attack on the jewish people and the israeli state . we fully support the defeat of Hamas and , of course , the safe return of all hostage who have be take . so , too , I hope , do we all share the same common humanity of protect civilian and condemn any act of collective punishment against the palestinian people . in that regard , many of the image emanate from Gaza in recent day will shock we all to the core , so may I ask the Prime Minister : will he join those of we on these Benches and call for an immediate ceasefire in the region ? we believe that Israel do have a right to defend itself , to protect its people and to act against terrorism and ensure that the awful attack we have see from Hamas can not happen again . unlike Hamas , the Israelis , include the President , have make it clear that their armed force will operate in accordance with international law . we will continue to urge the Israelis to take every precaution to avoid harm civilian . my ask for a ceasefire be do with all sincerity , not only in order to protect civilian , but to ensure that we have the safe creation of humanitarian corridor , which will allow not only for food , water and vital medicine to get into Gaza , but for innocent civilian catch up in this terrible conflict to flee . in respect of those who wish to flee , may I ask the Prime Minister what early consideration , if any , his Government have give to the creation of a refugee resettlement scheme akin to those previously put in place for syrian national , afghani national and , of course , ukrainian national ? I be proud that we be already one of the most significant contributor to the United Nations ' effort to support palestinian refugee ; our funding support about 5 . 8 million refugee annually , and on Monday we announce a significant increase in our funding of aid to the region , include to the UN to support refugee . with regard to humanitarian aid , as I say before , we be already work through pre - emptively move aid and relief team into the region . but , critically , the most important thing be to open up access for that aid to get into Gaza , which be why our conversation with the Egyptians and other be so critical . we continue to work closely with ally to find every way to get that aid to the people who need it as quickly as possible . last night , section of the british medium be report as fact that it be israeli rocket that have land and attack the Al - Ahli Hospital , rely on information supply by official in terrorist - control Gaza . the headline have since be rewrite , but the outpouring of Jew hate on social medium overnight be vile . so will the Prime Minister please make the point again that the way that this conflict be be report have massive implication for our jewish community and that any information come from Hamas must be treat with a degree of scrutiny and cross - examination that is , sadly , sometimes lack ? I commend my right hon . friend for his excellent intervention . he be absolutely right that we should not rush to judgment before we have all the fact on the appalling situation that we see yesterday , particularly give the sensitivity that he raise and the impact on community here , but also across the region . as I say , it be incumbent on all of those in position of responsibility in this House and outside in the medium to recognise that the word we say will have an impact , and we should be careful with they . we be work with our ally to establish the truth of what have happen . we will do that robustly and independently , but my right hon . friend be right to point out that in the same way as we do not treat what come out of the Kremlin as the gospel truth , we should not do that with Hamas . I associate my party with the comment make in relation to the deplorable loss of innocent human life in both Israel and Gaza . have leave the European Union , building link and co - operation across the four nation of our United Kingdom can only strengthen the Union . will the Prime Minister agree with my proposal for the creation of an east - west council , to bring together all part of the UK family to discuss and collaborate on trade and the many other opportunity present by the Union ? the right hon . Gentleman make a powerful case in his conference speech last weekend for a strong , function Northern Ireland within our Union . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have have the opportunity to discuss our share commitment to the Union with the right hon . Gentleman ' s party over recent week and month , and I be grateful for the constructive approach and tone take in those discussion . there be considerable merit in the idea of a new east - west council to far strengthen the Union , and I look forward to explore the issue far with he and his colleague . follow my right hon . friend ' s decision to reallocate funding from HS2 , may I urge he to consider a number of project that will boost the economy and improve the quality of life for my constituent and other in northern Lincolnshire ? in order for access to the Humber freeport to be improve , the A15 between Lincoln and the a180 need to be dualle . in particular , the a180 cause no end of problem for resident in nearby village because of its concrete surface , so I urge he to deal with its resurfacing . finally , Mr Speaker — Order . finally , I think the AA atlas have run out . my hon . friend have be a long - stand champion for Cleethorpes , and particularly for the importance of strong regional transport connection . Network North will see Hull fully connect to the northern powerhouse network , which I know he will welcome , and north - east Lincolnshire will share in a brand new £ 2 . 5 billion fund to support local transport connection , perhaps include many or some of the one he mention . I know he will have be delighted to see LNER run a test service to Cleethorpes early this year , and I can assure he that the Department for Transport be continue work to see a direct service to London reinstate . Government Members have say the way to fix the economic crisis that they have cause be to cut state spending by £ 200 billion and to freeze NHS budget . when will the Prime Minister stand up to the extremist in his party and condemn those idea ? week after I become Prime Minister , we announce a significant increase of almost £ 14 billion for the NHS and social care . we follow that up with the first long - term workforce plan in the NHS ' s history , to ensure that we train the doctor and nurse we need for the future . that demonstrate our commitment to the NHS . we also , I be pleased to say , reach a settlement with over 1 million NHS worker , include our nurse , for a full , fair and affordable pay rise . aid pour into Gaza in 2005 when Israel withdraw . enlightened governance could have make a success of it . it be Hamas that have turn it into hell , be it not ? I know that this be a subject on which my right hon . friend speak with authority , and I thank he for his previous work in the area . with regard to our aid funding , as the Foreign Secretary will outline later , we have very stringent governance in place to make sure that it be spend on the humanitarian need that we want to address . I also agree with he that there be one person and one person alone that be responsible for the atrocity that we be see , and that be Hamas . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , may I associate myself and my party with all the comment about the protection of innocent civilian today wherever they may be ? a whole wing of Seaton Hospital in Devon be earmark for demolition under this Government . the proposal to demolish this wing be an insult to the community that raise million of pound to help fund the upkeep of service at that hospital . the space be give to NHS Property Services , but , thank to the charge policy introduce by the Conservatives , that company be demand £ 300 , 000 in rent . will the Prime Minister let NHS Property Services hand over the space to health charity and community interest group so that we can stop a wrecking ball go through Seaton Hospital ? as the hon . Gentleman know , decision about hospital infrastructure be a matter for the NHS . I be tell that Devon Integrated Care Board be work together with NHS Property Services and local community healthcare provider to establish a future sustainable use for the currently vacant space . may I also take the opportunity to commend the work that my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) be do on this topic ? I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his commitment to improve transport link in the north . however , to ensure that a complete strategic approach to rail link be achieve across the region , it should include the much - need upgrade to the Penistone line run from Huddersfield , through my constituency , to Sheffield — an upgrade that my hon . friend the Members for Colne Valley ( Jason McCartney ) and for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) , who be sit with I , would also like to see deliver . with that in mind , will my right hon . friend commit to include the Penistone line in the Network North plan ? my hon . friend be a fantastic campaigner for the Penistone line rail upgrade . I know that my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary be conduct a corridor development study give the new commitment to service on the Sheffield to Leeds and Sheffield to hull line , and , as part of that exercise , will consider enhance the service on the Huddersfield to Penistone and Sheffield line , and I know that my hon . friend will discuss this far when he meet the rail Minister . in Bristol South , around a third of child live in poverty , most of they in work household . it be about the same as in Tamworth , where the conservative candidate for tomorrow ' s election make foul - mouthed comment about family struggle to make end meet . this be the Prime Minister ' s Conservative party . will he condemn that candidate ' s comment ? I be proud of our record support people with the cost of living . thank to the action that we have take , we have pay half of the typical family ' s energy bill last winter , frozen fuel duty and boost the national living wage to record level , and 8 million people across this country be now receive direct cost of live payment worth £ 900 . while we be help people with the cost of living , all Labour ' s idea be do be cost they a fortune . Mr Speaker , you may notice that many lady in the Chamber today be wear pink for breast cancer awareness , but roughly 15 % of those with breast cancer be diagnose with lobular cancer , a little know strain that be hard to detect , have bad outcome and have no dedicated treatment . I be work with Dr Susan Michaelis at the lobular moonshot project to campaign for a dedicated research stream for lobular cancer . will the Prime Minister meet with we to discuss this and how the Government can help we to save more life from breast cancer ? I thank my hon . friend for all her work in this area . early diagnosis of cancer be key and the NHS " help we , help you " campaign be seek to address the barrier deter patient from access diagnosis and treatment . thank to treatment and fast detection , survival rate for breast cancer be now increase . last year , more than 1 million scan be carry out , prevent an estimate 1 , 300 death from breast cancer . this Breast Cancer Awareness Month , I encourage anyone who be invite to take up the offer of breast cancer screening . of course the sadism of Hamas can only be condemn , and there be no question of Israel ' s right to defence and security , but international law be very clear that act against international law in response to terrorism be unjustified , so in all the package that the Prime Minister have announce vis - à - vis humanitarian aid , and the military package that he announce last week , can he tell the House how the Government will ensure that international law be adhere to , beyond just statement from Israel ' s head of state ? the hon . member talk about our military asset . let I be crystal clear : the asset that we have move into the region be not there in any combat capacity . they be there for two reason : first and foremost , to provide surveillance to ensure that this crisis do not escalate and that arm be not be send to entity like Hezbollah — that be what our surveillance aircraft be currently do , and indeed the next set of asset arrive this week will also help — but also to provide contingency support for humanitarian assistance as and when require in the come day and week . on Sunday , Terrence Carney , a 70 - year - old Hartlepudlian , be murder by an asylum seeker . the people be afraid and angry . every week , my office be besiege by asylum seeker . my staff be intimidate by young man . the fact be that most of they be illegal migrant who should be expel . my thought and sympathy be with Mr Carney ' s family and friend , and all my constituent affect by this heinous crime . however , sympathy be not enough . they deserve action , and I be demand it . will the Prime Minister take action ? will he make sure that enforcement be deliver ? will he ensure that people who have no right to be here be expel ? enough be enough . I want these people out of Hartlepool now . as my hon . friend know , I be unable to comment on case that be currently before the court , but I join she in express my sympathy to the family affect . I reassure she that the Government be do everything that we can to tackle illegal migration and the harm that it cause by remove those with no right to be here in the UK . we have excellent long - stand relationship to return people to many country . we be return thousands more people this year than we have in the past , and we will continue to use every avenue at our disposal to ensure that it be only this country and this government who decide who come here , and not criminal gang . we have all be horrify by event in Israel and Gaza , and it be right that we condemn utterly the inhuman terrorism of Hamas . that should also be the case for any obscenity and war crime carry out by the israeli defence force . both the UN and M é decin Sans Fronti è re have describe the siege of Gaza and the withholding of water from its people as collective punishment — a war crime under the Geneva convention — yet this week both the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition have support Israel ' s right to do so . why ? quite simply put , Israel suffer from a brutal terrorist attack at the hand of Hamas , and it be absolutely right that Israel have a right to defend itself , root out terrorism , and ensure that such an act do not happen again . as Israel ' s President have say , its military will operate within international law , but the hon . Gentleman fail to acknowledge that it be Hamas who embe themselves inside civilian population and put innocent civilian in harm ' s way . he would do well to remember that . my right hon . friend have be absolutely right to lead the nation in reassure the british jewish community in the wake of the utterly appalling atrocity visit upon Israel and Jews on 7 October . I understand that my right hon . friend will be travel to the region , and he will see for himself the shock and trauma that be through the israeli nation after this event — shock and trauma that be accompany by a rage . the enormous danger be that the israeli reaction , lead by a Prime Minister who will be hold accountable for this failure of intelligence , be go to amount — be indeed amount — to a war crime . that will not only be a crime ; it will be a mistake . I urge my right hon . friend : there be now no one well place to urge Israel to stay within the international rule of law , and to exercise restraint on behalf of we all . as a friend , we will always urge Israel to take every possible practical precaution to avoid harm civilian , and indeed to act within international law , as Israel ' s President have say its armed force will do , while recognise the incredible complexity and difficulty of the situation on the ground . it bear repeat that Hamas be a terrorist organisation that embed itself inside a civilian population . we always have to remember that . Israel be take every possible practical step to avoid harm civilian , and we will do everything we can to provide humanitarian support to the area . the Prime Minister will be delighted to know that nuclear veteran like my constituent ' s grandad , John , be start to receive the medal he promise , but John be still not get his full medical record . his blood test from Christmas Island , which be crucial to claim a war pension , be miss , and countless veteran report the same . as the Ministry of Defence have admit that it hold at least 150 file withhold from national archive refer to blood test and other datum , will he review those document , report back to the House and hold a public inquiry into why medical record omission have happen , and on whose instruction ? I start by thank all our veteran for their contribution to our safety and security . I be delighted to have be able to announce the new nuclear test medal last year and that it be start to be receive by many people , include the hon . Lady ' s constituent . she will know that I can not comment on ongoing litigation in respect of request for health record , but I can say that anyone can request copy of their own medical datum by submit a subject access request to the Department , and if they be not satisfied with the processing of that request , they can make a formal complaint via the complaint process . we appear to be on a downward spiral in the middle east , which inevitably will lead to a humanitarian crisis . the role of Egypt will be fantastically important . what can we in the wide international community do to work with the Egyptians to ensure that refugee come on to egyptian soil be legitimate refugee who pose no threat to the egyptian state and be not terrorist in disguise ? my hon . friend raise an excellent point regard the Egyptians ' concern about that border , but we have prioritise speak with President Sisi and be in continue dialogue with our egyptian partner to see what we can do to provide reassurance and get humanitarian aid to the region . we be work with local partner , include the Egyptian Red Crescent , and the UN on the ground . there will be a significant logistical challenge in stockpile aid at the border and then move it into Gaza , but I assure my hon . friend and the whole House that the Development Minister be actively engage in that work as we speak , so that we can play a lead role in facilitate the provision of that aid . this be the final question before the urgent question . I call Patricia Gibson . thank you , Mr Speaker . the industrial dispute at the Defence Equipment and Support , Ministry of Defence site at Beith in my constituency be drag on , as worker engage in strike action for parity and fairness in the workplace . these worker be critical to ensure that necessary supply to Ukraine be uninterrupted , but all attempt by the worker to resolve this dispute have prove to be unsuccessful in the face of management intransigence . will the Prime Minister personally and urgently use his influence to ensure that a meaningful offer be make to these worker , so that the matter can be resolve , further strike action can be avert , and supply to Ukraine can continue without disruption ? I thank the hon . member for highlight the critical role play by non - craft support operative at Defence Munitions . different rate of pay for worker with different skill and qualification be entirely normal practice in both the public and the private sector . this year , as part of DE & S pay 2023 , a generous pay award be deliver which significantly improve the base pay of worker engage in the dispute . I be tell that official continue to be open to talk on a constructive basis with the GMB to resolve the situation . Gaza : Al - Ahli Arab Hospital Explosion ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the explosion at the Al - Ahli Arab Hospital in Gaza . the destruction of the Al - Ahli Arab Hospital in Gaza be an appalling tragedy . a hospital be a place of compassion and care . this devastating loss of human life be profoundly disturbing . I be sure that I speak for the whole House when I offer my sincere condolence to the family of the deceased and to the injured . the UK be work intensively with our ally to establish the fact . we will not rush to judgment . the whole House will understand that point finger prematurely only fuel regional instability and upset community cohesion here in the UK . we need a firm grasp of what have happen , not a slew of social medium commentary . we all share a duty to be thoughtful and careful in how we respond to report emerge from the conflict , which can be at well incomplete or at bad example of active disinformation . we be carefully analyse the evidence that have be put in the public domain , and other information . as soon as we have reach a definitive conclusion for ourselves , we will make it public . some thing be not in doubt , however . as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister set out , Hamas carry out a terrorist assault on Israel that be unprecedented in that country ' s 75 - year history . the whole House unite in support of Israel ' s right to defend itself against terrorism . in defend itself , Israel must act with professionalism and an unwavering commitment to international law . state must take every precaution to minimise civilian casualty and ensure that humanitarian support reach those in need . I welcome President Herzog ' s unequivocal commitment — make both directly to I and in public — that Israel be operate in accordance with the rule of international law . by embed themselves in civilian population , use innocent Palestinians as human shield , launch thousand of rocket since Saturday from one of the most crowded place in the world , and prevent civilian from heed israeli warning about future area of operation , Hamas reveal themselves and their callous indifference to human life . in this tense situation , UK diplomacy be relentlessly focus on our aim : support our national in their moment of need , push for and deliver humanitarian support , and work to prevent tension spill over into the wide region or play out on the street of this country . I have travel to Israel and engage with G7 ally and regional partner , and I will visit the region again later today because we recognise that this will require intensive effort . none of we know how this complex , protract situation will develop . the Government be commit to keep the House update . both here in the UK and in the region , this be a time for cool head and determination to make a difference . thank you so much , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for his engagement with the Opposition at this very difficult time . today , we stand united in mourn the death of hundred of innocent palestinian civilian at the Al - Ahli Hospital . a place of healing become a scene of destruction . hospital must always be protect . the death of every civilian , palestinian or israeli , be an equal tragedy that push back the cause of peace . when face an incident of this magnitude , we all have a duty to act responsibly and judiciously as the fact be determined . will the Foreign Secretary join I in urge everyone in this House and beyond to be wary of disinformation , and to avoid dangerous speculation before the fact be clear ? will he also update the House on what he be do to deal with outside power that might be seek to drive division on our own shore ? the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have rightly say that they be work to establish the fact , look at intelligence with our ally , and that must be right . we also note President Biden ' s comment early today . can the Foreign Secretary confirm whether the UK Government share that initial assessment ? I also ask he to share with we what information he can , either publicly or on Privy Council term . do he agree that those responsible for the death at the Al - Ahli Hospital must be hold to account ? since Hamas ' s appal terrorist attack on Israel 11 day ago , Labour have be crystal clear that : first , we support Israel ' s right to defend itself , rescue hostage and protect its citizen ; secondly , international law must be follow at all time ; and thirdly , civilian must not be target , aid must be provide and innocent life must be protect . Gaza be in the middle of an active humanitarian emergency : innocent palestinian civilian be terrify for their life . can the Foreign Secretary today commit that the Government will leave no stone unturned in their diplomatic effort to secure humanitarian access to food , water , fuel , electricity and medicine , and to ensure the establishment of humanitarian corridor and the proper protection of humanitarian worker ? palestinian civilian in Gaza must know that the world be not simply watch , but act on their behalf . the right hon . Gentleman make a number of important point , which I commend to the House — a number of which I will respond to and , indeed , amplify . he be absolutely right that this be an incredibly sensitive situation , and not just for the region itself . our desire to prevent this tragedy from expand into a regional conflict remain an absolute priority , and of course we have a duty as a government — I be sure it be a passion share by the whole House — to ensure that jewish and muslim community in the UK be safe and feel safe , and do not experience ramification from circumstance that be far beyond these shore and beyond their control . for that reason , everybody — particularly those who have a voice in the public sphere , whether formal or informal — should be particularly careful about what information they disseminate . they should be particularly vigilant against disinformation , and speculation be never useful . I appreciate that the House , and indeed the country , will want to understand what be go on in real time , and sometimes the pause that we impose on ourselves to ensure that the information the Government provide be accurate can be frustrating , but I would prefer , of course , to be accurate rather than just to work at pace . the right hon . Gentleman be right that there be malign influence seek to take advantage of this terrible situation , and we do guard against that . we take note of what President Biden have say , but we will come to our own judgment . we will work on that quickly and ensure that our assessment be put in the public domain as soon as we be confident of the detail . I call the Father of the House . as the Foreign Secretary say , we should soon know the direct cause of this explosion . I will send he and the Prime Minister a letter that I have receive from the worthe islamic society — I think that jewish people and other in my constituency will agree with every sentence . it end by ask the Government to use their " influence and support " to " encourage a peaceful and sustainable resolution that prioritise the right and well - being of innocent civilian " catch up in the onslaught . the Father of the House make an incredibly important point . as a former Minister for the middle east , I be acutely conscious of the implication for islamic community both in the region and here in the UK , and the protection of those people be as close to our heart as the protection of jewish people here in the UK . we will relentlessly pursue what be the endure UK Government position , which be a viable two - state solution , with Israelis and Palestinians live in peace side by side . of course these circumstance be a setback , but nevertheless we will not be fatalistic . we will continue to work with Israel , the palestinian people and the wide region to bring about that positive aim . I call the SNP spokesperson . it appear that what happen last night at the Al - Ahli Hospital in Gaza be a war crime — it be a crime against humanity — and if that be the case , there can be no hiding place for those who give the order and those who carry it out . independent investigator must be allow to find out exactly who be responsible for this atrocity and have they bring before the International Criminal Court . the scene of death and destruction from last night be beyond harrowing , but the tragic reality of this conflict be that innocent civilian life be be view as little more than collateral damage . they be not collateral damage ; every single human life matter , and they matter equally — israeli , include the hostage , who must be immediately release , and palestinian . today it be report that , as a direct result of the draconian collective punishment against the civilian population of Gaza , child be die of thirst . will the Government now finally tell the israeli Government that the imposition of a collective punishment be a crime , that it be a breach of international humanitarian law and that it must end immediately ? I note what the hon . Member have say about the incident at the Al - Ahli Hospital . as I say , we will be make a statement only when we be comfortable about the fact . we have to be realistic that the opportunity for any kind of independent investigation go into Gaza be severely limited , which be why we be take the time to ensure that we get this right . in all our conversation with the Israelis , we have reinforce the need for the protection of civilian ; they understand that and they agree . President Herzog have make a commitment about adherence to international law . we must , however , be completely clear that Hamas accept no such limitation on their action . they have specifically target civilian and child — they go out of their way to identify and murder the most vulnerable — and it be completely appropriate for Israel to take action to protect its civilian and prevent Hamas from perpetrate further atrocity in that country . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the situation be unbearable , but while the horror of last night can not be unseen , we must not look away . violence be increase across the region , but also in Europe and the US . we in this House have a duty to protect british national , so what assessment have the Government make of whether the joint terrorism analysis centre need to raise the threat level ? can I also have reassurance about what be be do to protect out diplomatic staff around the world after the heinous attack we see on israeli and american embassy overnight ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . we constantly assess the threat picture both here in the UK and in the region . I have conduct an all - staff meeting with Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office staff across the whole world — I be tell that over 5 , 000 people attend that briefing . I make it clear that , as their employer , I regard my duty of care towards they as uppermost . we do of course continue to support british national overseas , include in the region , and our consular team be maintain , as well they can , contact with british national in Israel , and indeed in Gaza . it be an incredibly difficult consular situation , but I can assure the House that we will remain , as far as we be able to , in contact with those british national seek our support , and we be consistently try to reopen exit route from Gaza so that british national can leave . the Foreign Secretary will be aware of the horror with which the missile strike on a hospital in Gaza , which cause hundred upon hundred of casualty , be regard not just here in Britain , but in the region and internationally . the House have hear his injunction not to jump to conclusion , but would he support a genuinely independent inquiry into what be happen ? of course , an independent inquiry be the gold standard in the event of such a circumstance , but the simple truth in relation to have any kind of independent investigation in Gaza be that the current situation — bear in mind that our own embassy team there be severely limited in what they be able to do , and the international community be not able to operate freely — make the practicality of that incredibly difficult . we be make our own assessment . we will gather and analyse as much information as we can . we will not be lead by any other nation ; it will be a UK assessment of the situation . once we have come to a conclusion , we will share it with the House and the country . I be sure that my right hon . friend and the Government be wise not to rush to conclusion , and to have a proper investigation before they come to a conclusion about what actually happen in this utterly appalling incident . I be strike by the number of email I have receive from constituent who have already rush to conclusion , and all blame Israel . do he agree that this show the important responsibility not only that broadcaster have to ensure they do not disseminate false information , but that owner of social medium platform have to try to avoid hate be spread literally around the world at time like this ? my right hon . friend will know that , within Government , action be be take to ensure that social medium owner act with great professionalism and great consciousness of the impact they have . I would make a broad point to broadcaster — I have have this conversation directly with they in the past — which be that I believe there be an attempt by broadcaster to try to outpace social medium platform . the day of break news on traditional platform be long in the past ; they should focus on accuracy rather than pace , because their word have impact here in the UK and around the world . my heart break for everyone who lose their life in the Episcopal hospital disaster last night . it be now quite clear that even hospital be not a safe place of refuge anywhere in Gaza . that hospital be strike by a missile the week before yesterday . I want to understand quite clearly from the Foreign Secretary why , as we call on the country for humanitarian access to Gaza , we be not also call for an immediate ceasefire to enable that to happen . it seem to I bizarre that we can not call for a ceasefire to enable that humanitarian corridor to open , because the scale of death that be now unfold will reach tenfold over the next few day . in line with that , I would really like to hear from the Foreign Secretary assurance that he be speak to our israeli counterpart to ensure that any Gazans and Palestinians who do evacuate will have an absolute right of return to their land and do not end up languish , as the million of other palestinian refugee currently still do , in both Jordan and Lebanon . I have conversation regularly with the israeli Government , and with the government of country in the neighbourhood , about palestinian refugee . I be unable to go into the detail because they be extensive , but the hon . Member should be aware that we have always support palestinian refugee , with the £ 27 million to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , and the recent announcement of an additional £ 10 million be a direct response to the situation there . the simple truth be that Israel do have a right to defend itself . the truth be that Hamas have no interest in a ceasefire . they have no interest in resolution , they have never attempt to engage in a two - state solution , and they have make every attempt to collapse the Oslo process . they be no friend of the palestinian people . they have fire literally thousand of rocket into Israel since Saturday . Israel do have the right to take action to defend itself and to recover its hostage , and the UK , while respect that , will of course always encourage it to adhere to international law and to protect civilian . the Foreign Secretary be surely right to say that we must not rush to judgment on this incident , but do he agree that one fact we know right now be that the primary moral , and as a result legal , responsibility for the appalling civilian life loss in Gaza today and in the day ahead lie with Hamas , first for their attack on Israel , and secondly for the systematic practice of use civilian as human shield ? I know that my predecessor and right hon . friend be very well read on this situation , and I pay tribute to the work he do when he be Foreign Secretary and I be his Minister for the Middle East and North Africa . he be absolutely right , and we must be clear - eyed about the trigger event . it be the most brutal mass murder in a terrorist action in the history of the state of Israel , and the large loss of jewish life on a single day since the holocaust . of course Israel have the right to defend itself , and we must never forget that Hamas ' s action of embed themselves in civilian community and put palestinian life intentionally at risk to pursue their political aim be completely unjustifiable . whatever the outcome of the independent inquiry into what happen with the tragedy in Gaza yesterday , in reality Gaza be such a densely populate area that no matter what effort be make , the effect of bombing will be indiscriminate . if the Government can not go as far as call for a ceasefire , will they at least call for the end of the rocket and the bomb ? if they can not go as far as to call for the end of the bombing , can they at least call on Israel to stop bomb the south , where refugee from Gaza City be go at the instruction of the israeli army ? a cease in the bombing could trigger the negotiation that enable the release of the hostage . I pay tribute to the work of the international community in try to secure the release of the hostage . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister emphasise the work that the Qataris be do in this instance . they be not the only one do that , and we will continue to support their effort . I hear what the right hon . Gentleman say about call to stop the air attack on Gaza from Israel , but the simple truth be that the alternative be a ground assault by Israel and , as he say , the practicality of any military operation in an area as densely populate as Gaza will be deeply challenging . again , I remind the House that the people who murder those reveller , those partygoer , those child and those old people embe themselves in civilian community — in hospital , in school — specifically to use innocent Palestinians as human shield . we must all understand the culpability that they hold for many of these civilian casualty , but I will , of course , once again speak with the Israelis about make every effort that they be able to make to minimise civilian casualty . whoever be responsible for the hospital attack last evening , it be an appalling human tragedy , and we think of all those who have lose their loved one at this time . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s commitment to be evidence - lead in what the Government say about this incident . do he agree that if the UK intelligence community , whether that be GCHQ , the Secret Intelligence Service , Defence Intelligence and so on , be have to take time and deliberate in order to come to a conclusion , perhaps all of we in this place , include medium organisation outside this place , should also show the same caution and consideration before make statement that could prove incendiary ? my right hon . friend make an incredibly important point . there be , of course , the completely understandable desire of medium outlet to report promptly , but I believe they have a great duty to report accurately and responsibly . word that emanate from the UK be take seriously . we have huge standing in the world , and thing that be say at the Dispatch Box , in this House and on our medium , be listen to around the world . therefore , we have an enhance duty to ensure that the word we say be accurate . I deplore the loss of all civilian life , israeli and palestinian , and I commend the Foreign Secretary for his caution over attribute blame for last night ' s attack . do he think that we should also be cautious about the figure for casualty come from Gaza ? they do not describe all as civilian casualty ; there be reason to believe that there be a very high volume of Hamas combatant among those figure . the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I be not go to minimise the pain and suffering of those palestinian family who have lose love one and have people injure , but we know that just as Hamas be abuse the palestinian people , they also abuse the figure that they put in the public domain . we must be highly sceptical of any information come out of Hamas , just as the Prime Minister say we should be . we remain focused on try to reduce the pain and suffering of the palestinian people , as well as support Israel and its self - defence . while do so we should be deeply , deeply sceptical of any and all information come from Hamas spokesperson . I commend my right hon . friend for his caution . we should remind ourselves of the word of Mark Twain : " a lie can travel half way around the world " before the truth have get its boot on . never more certainly be that the case than here . I remind hon . member that Hamas bear complete responsibility for everything . our heart go out to all the innocent who have die and suffer — of course they do — but Hamas be the perpetrator and they have bring this on themselves . we remind ourselves that when they murder all those israeli Jews in the territory , they film they and commit atrocity deliberately . that be to remind the Israelis of the holocaust and what be likely to come . do the Foreign Secretary agree that broadcaster should not enter into discursive debate ? when as issue such as this happen , they should report the fact as know , and nothing far . my right hon . friend speak with authority and clarity on this , and I find myself in complete agreement with he . I have jewish friend who be try to keep their child off social medium , because they know that they will be assault with image of Israelis who have be murder and whose body have be desecrate . no one in the modern era should have to endure that kind of repeat pain . evacuation order in the past week have include hospital , but many vulnerable people be unable to move because of their disability or illness . what conversation have the Foreign Secretary have directly with UK aid agency and non - governmental organisation about that situation ? what more can the UK do to ensure that civilian population , include medical and aid worker , be protect ? the hon . Lady raise an incredibly important point , and my Department remain in close co - ordination with international aid agency and NGOs . we recognise the practical difficulty of that evacuation order , and in a highly dense area such as Gaza we completely understand those practical difficulty , particularly for medical organisation . . as imperfect as it may be , attempt to remove civilian from a future area of military operation stand in sharp contrast with the action of Hamas , who be actively seek to prevent people from leave an area of future conflict , and intentionally put civilian in the way , use innocent Palestinians as human shield . I commend the Foreign Secretary , and his opposition shadow , for their tone , but the fact be that last night an evil terrorist organisation that murder Jews and oppress Palestinians be instantly believe in a number of quarter , whereas many refuse to acknowledge that jewish baby have be brutally murder without demand graphic proof . do the Foreign Secretary agree that unsubstantiated report such as those we see last night might actually cost life , because they inflame tension in an already highly volatile region ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right . everything have a cost , and rush , inaccurate reporting cost life . everybody , whether they be formally involve in the reporting process , a citizen journalist or just active on social medium , should be very conscious that this involve real life in the most sensitive of circumstance and that such reporting could have repercussion not just in the area or the region , but in this country as well . we rightly unite to condemn the barbaric action of Hamas against innocent Israelis , and the loss of palestinian life and the unfold humanitarian crisis be a profound tragedy . the scene at al - Ahli Hospital shock we all , and I hope the Secretary of State will do everything to ensure an independent investigation , but people in Gaza be trap , so what more will he do to ensure consular support not just on the ground there , but to family heartbroken back here in the UK ? will he hear and heed the word of Nadia El - Nakla , the wife of our Scottish First Minister , whose family be trap there right now ? she say : " we be not watch a natural disaster , this can be stop . " the consular department in the fcdo have get in contact with the family of those british national who be trap in Gaza , and we be provide ongoing consular support . the hon . Lady will understand that the experience of the First Minister , his wife and their family be a live example of the plight of a number of family . information be incomplete , our access be severely limited and sadly we have to rely on a number of interlocutor and people over whom we do not have direct control , include Hamas . we will continue to support british national as good we can , until they have be evacuate from that area . one fact that be not in dispute be that every rocket fire from Gaza into Israel be aim at murder civilian , in stark contrast to israeli defensive action . last night , there be member in this place , include senior member , scurry around , state as fact that this incident be cause by an israeli rocket . the BBC and other medium refer to statement by " Hamas official " — I think they mean to say Hamas terrorist — and present they as fact without challenge . that not only risk radicalisation of community in this country , where we already know there be a problem with antisemitism , but put Jews at risk . I urge colleague to be careful of their comment give the role that blood libel play in promote antisemitism . my hon . friend make an incredibly important point , and I restate my request of all people comment on this — whether they have a formal role within the medium or be in a high - profile position , such as member of this House — to be thoughtful of the implication of their action , to be sceptical of all information come out from Hamas , and to take a little extra time to verify , which can literally save life here and abroad . I know this situation be complex , and the taking of life and hostage , whether israeli or palestinian , be abhorrent , but we have to recognise that Palestinians can not defend themselves . they have no mean , and now their place of sanctuary , such as hospital , be no long safe place either . for that reason , I urge the Foreign Secretary once more to call for a ceasefire , so that we can see a de - escalation in this horrific conflict . of course everybody — I will rephrase that . all reasonable people want this terrible situation to be resolve , and resolve quickly . this be not a conflict that Israel ask for ; it be a conflict that they be force to engage in because of the mass murder in their country perpetrate by Hamas terrorist who embe themselves in school , hospital and in civilian community . call for ceasefire be all well and good , but I have see nothing — nothing — that lead I to believe that Hamas would respect call for a ceasefire . may I say to my right hon . friend that whatever the investigation find out , in a sense it will not matter a great deal to all those who be dead in the hospital ? whether the israeli explanation be correct that it be an Islamic Jihad missile that misfire and then land among explosive that be on the hospital site that then kill so many people , or whether it be an israeli strike , in the end both side have now commit war crime . if they be just additional crime be add to the ledger on either side , that be simply what it will be . I say to my right hon . friend , in his relation with Israel and in reinforce the position of the Prime Minister , that the only way to get out of this mess be a ceasefire . otherwise , we will not see the relief of people who be starve and be dehydrate to death — that be a collective punishment , which be illegal under international law — follow the deportation of people from northern Gaza , which again be illegal under international law . there be specific offence that have already take place , and I say to my right hon . friend : for all our sake , he should work , as he say , with clear - minded determination to get the good answer from our ally . the House need to understand that prior to Hamas ' s terrorist attack , ten of thousand of Gazans pass through the border into Israel every day in order to work . Israel provide — often without payment — water , electricity and gas to the people of Gaza . that be interrupt as a direct result of Hamas ' s brutal terrorist action . thousand of rocket be fire from Gaza into Israel from in and among school , hospital and civilian community . we do of course always remind Israel , as we would any other nation involve in military operation , of their duty under international law . President Herzog , Israel ' s head of state , have reinforce that commitment . we hear no such commitment from Hamas . last night ' s absolute tragedy of the explosion at the Al - Ahli Hospital will simply intensify passion and polarise the debate even more . many child and young people here in the UK will have see the image on our television and screen and on social medium platform , and I think they will be influence by that . while I thank the Government for the money and support they be give to the organisation protect faith school , mosque and synagogue , can the Minister tell we what he be do to provide advice and support to ordinary school and our university , where there be an intensification of hatred emerge and where I be hear of both antisemitic and islamophobic view be express and attack be work on individual ? the right hon . Lady make an incredibly important point . while I will not go into detail of conversation in Cabinet , I can assure she that the protection of all community in the UK be something that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities highlight . that very much go hand - in - hand with the commitment that the Home Secretary have make that we will protect all community in the UK — muslim , jewish and other — and we will work with institution , whether educational institution or other , to try to ensure that the people at those institution can go about their life free from fear , intimidation and discrimination . I very much agree with the Foreign Secretary that the entity responsible for the loss of life we be see now be Hamas : a terrorist barbaric organisation that kill innocent jewish people . the question now be about do everything we can to save life of both israeli and palestinian people who be innocent in that regard . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to humanitarian assistance for the ordinary people of Palestine and the Foreign Secretary ' s differentiation , like the Prime Minister ' s differentiation , between the people of Palestine and the terrorist organisation Hamas . the Foreign Secretary say that , move forward , we will work towards a two - state solution . the people in the region want to know what that two - state solution be . be that base on Security Council resolution 242 and the 1967 border , which the United Kingdom sign up to ? what be a clear framework for that ? the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , have previously ask for the UK to appoint an envoy to the region . we have two brilliant contender , if I may say so , in William Hague , the foreign former secretary who get the region , and Alistair Burt , a brilliant , well - respect former Minister . we have choice and option . when will the Foreign Secretary outline that part of the next step ? my hon . friend make some important point . the truth be that we remain committed to a two - state solution , with Palestinians and Israelis live side - by - side in peace and prosperity . while at the moment and in these circumstance that might feel like an unachievable aim , we refuse to be fatalistic and give up that aspiration . the detail will be for negotiation , but he and the House will have hear we say on a number of occasion that it will be base on the 1967 border , with land swap and a share capital in Jerusalem . but we will not be dogmatic ; what we want to see be peace bring about . I hear what he say about appoint a special envoy . we have some of our most capable people in our post in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem and in Gaza . I repeat my condemnation of the Hamas attack against innocent israeli citizen . we see civilian in Gaza forcibly move from their home with no guarantee of safety or return , yet the Government fail to speak out . we see food , water and electricity cut off in Gaza , yet the Government fail to speak out . last night , we see the destruction of a hospital in Gaza . the Government now need to speak out . will the Foreign Secretary support the International Criminal Court investigation into the situation in Palestine , give that the prosecutor have say that its mandate include the current context ? that so obviously and urgently must include investigation of the hospital explosion . we need to ensure that no more blood be spill . we need a ceasefire now . I must say to the hon . Lady that her assessment of the UK Government ' s voice on this issue be fundamentally wrong . we have consistently discuss with Israel — and publicly — our commitment to humanitarian law . she need to understand that a military force highlight a future potential area of conflict and encourage people to move away from that area of conflict be not force relocation . [ interruption . ] it be not force relocation . I draw her attention to the action that Hamas have take to prevent innocent Palestinians from move away from place of danger . the contrast could not be more stark . give that we do not know the fact about what happen and whether , for example , this be a ghastly mistake , we should be here not to blame but to mourn the loss of so many doctor , staff and patient at the Al - Ahli Arab Hospital , which I and several other hon . member from the House visit more than a decade ago . it be found in the late 19th century by the Episcopal Church in Jerusalem and be run by it to this day , so it be likely that Christians as well as Muslims will have lose their life . will my right hon . friend , whose approach have be appropriately calm at a time when we need to reduce and not inflame tension both domestically and in the middle east , do his good to stay in touch with the Anglican Church to see if it have more information about what have happen to those who be there , to see how we can help re - establish what be a valuable programme — for example , it provide free breast cancer treatment and mobile clinic — and do all he can to think about how , in the long term , we can enable people in that troubled land to co - exist in a way that we have , for so long , fail to do , support the United Nations Relief and Works Agency as far as possible on its humanitarian mission ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the tragic loss of life in this instance . as I have say , the UK Government share in the grief of those who have lose love one , irrespective of their faith or their community . we know that there be incredibly passionate voice on both side , but , as I have say a number of time , we have a duty to be calm and careful when we speak about this issue . we will continue to work for peaceful co - existence of all the community in that region . as difficult as that is , it will remain a priority for the UK Government . rise — order . it be my intention to call all member who be here at the beginning of the urgent question and who be try to catch my eye . I have to say to the House that we be clearly deal with a very sensitive , emotive and sad subject , but it be not necessary for every Member to express their grief , understanding and empathy . that have be do . let we take it for grant that we be all break - hearted about the situation ; let we not repeat that before every question . this be not an occasion for speech ; it be one for question . if we can have straightforward , short question that enable the Secretary of State to give straightforward , short answer , we will get everyone in . if not , there will be disappointment . I be terrified that there will be an escalation lead to many more civilian on all side be murder . I have listen intently to what the Foreign Secretary have say about why he be not call for a ceasefire , but could he explain both as a diplomat and as a military man how we can get humanitarian aid in , how we can create safe zone and how we can prevent civilian loss of life ? slightly long term , will he tell we what conversation he be have with the international community about long - term aid and support for the inevitable palestinian refugee ? the hon . Lady , the Chair of the International Development Committee , make an incredibly important point . I , the Prime Minister , my ministerial colleague and of course our ambassadorial team in the region have be speak extensively to try to facilitate humanitarian access . that have be most notably with Egypt , but we have also be use our very good relationship with the Qataris to try to influence Hamas , and of course our direct relationship with Israel to try to broker some kind of humanitarian access , even if only temporarily . thus far , that have be unsuccessful . we will continue to work on that . we have allocate an additional £ 10 million for direct humanitarian support for the palestinian people — of course , we be not limit to just that — and we co - ordinating with the international community to ensure that whether in Gaza or wide in the region , Palestinians be look after in these difficult time . my constituent Rev . David Longe be a priest in North Norfolk and formerly serve as a priest in Jerusalem . I speak to he on the telephone last night , and he have potentially lose friend who be work in the Al - Ahli Hospital . he tell I that there be Gazans shelter in church , so will the Foreign Secretary please make it absolutely clear in his discussion that the humanitarian role that the church be currently partake in must not be underestimate and that the Roman Catholic Church in North Gaza and the Greek Orthodox Church must be absolutely protect for the people they be shelter ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of the faith community . we often talk about the jewish faith and Islam but when it come to this region , the christian church play an incredibly important role , and I pay tribute to they . I have hear his point , and I will continue to speak about the avoidance of civilian casualty , particularly in place of safe haven such as church . when seek to counter an insurgency in Afghanistan over a decade ago , General McChrystal adopt a new concept for NATO soldier : courageous restraint . this be to separate the insurgent from the civilian among whom they live . can the foreign Secretary inform the House how courageous restraint can be urge on all combatant , include through the full resumption of the water supply to Gaza ? courageous restraint , which the hon . Gentleman highlight , be now a well - embed concept in professional military force . I have discuss with representative of the IDF my admiration for its professionalism and my expectation that it will maintain that professionalism through any military operation . courageous restraint be not a concept in the heart of Hamas terrorist . we must be realistic about that . therefore , we will work with Israel and other country in the region to try to bring this to a conclusion as quickly as possible , but we maintain our support of Israel ' s self - defence and we highlight the fact that Hamas be just as willing to see Palestinians kill as they be to see Israelis kill , to pursue their political aim . last night , much of the UK medium feel it appropriate to immediately and with no room for doubt blame Israel , before the IDF give its evidence that the rocket be launch from palestinian Islamic Jihad . it be right that the UK Government independently assess what happen . all that be make so much hard because Hamas have no moral , no boundary and no problem with kill any innocent civilian in Israel or Gaza . will the Foreign Secretary reassure I that he know that stand with Israel now will put we on the right side of history ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the callous nature of Hamas ' s activity and those of other terrorist group embed in Gaza . we express our solidarity with the Israelis in their time of grief in the aftermath of those terrible attack , and we stand in solidarity with they still . we be good friend with the state of Israel . good friend speak honestly with each other , and we will always do that , but we will always stand beside a nation that seek to protect itself and its people in the face of such a relentless terrorist threat . last night ' s explosion at the Al - Ahli Hospital only add to the unspeakable pain of innocent palestinian civilian in Gaza . as the Foreign Secretary know , they face a deepening humanitarian crisis , unable to access food , water , fuel , electricity or medical supply . when do he expect supply of those lifesave necessity to be restore to Gaza ? we have speak to Israel and country in the region about the humanitarian need , which be why we put forward the additional money that the Prime Minister announce on Monday . of course , we do not want those innocent Palestinians catch in Gaza , who be suffer because of the action of Hamas , to suffer any more than be absolutely necessary . we will continue work with the international community on humanitarian support and with Israel on the preservation of civilian life . I keep hear the word of my mother in my brain , and I have do for the last week : " twa wrang dinnae make a right . " Hamas be an indefensible organisation in any right person ' s book , but the fact that they will not do right do not mean that the UK Government should not demand and work hard towards a ceasefire , and make sure that humanitarian aid get into Gaza . I think repeatedly , as do many other , of helpless child . I be a mother and a grandmother , and that be what I think about every night . will the Foreign Secretary please make every effort not just to have money set aside but to tell we how he will get humanitarian aid into Gaza City and help those who be suffer in Israel as well ? call for a ceasefire be understandable , and I have much sympathy for the position the hon . Lady set out , but a ceasefire have to be respect by both party in a conflict , and I have see absolutely nothing in the behaviour of Hamas during and since the terrorist attack that give I any confidence at all that they would respect a ceasefire . unless they respect a ceasefire , it be not credible to demand that Israel do not defend itself against terrorism . to follow up on the previous point , the UN Secretary - General Ant ó nio Guterres have also call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . clearly , the Foreign Secretary have some issue with that , though I do not really understand why . be it not appropriate for a third party with people on the ground , such as the UN , to make an assessment — one that , with respect , be probably more realistic than his ? in the meantime , what safe corridor be be propose ? have the Foreign Secretary consider they , so we can at least have some safe evacuation for Gazans ? I remind the hon . Lady and the House that we have people on the ground . my staff be in danger in Gaza . they choose to put their life at risk in an incredibly dangerous part of the world in order to give I direct insight into the reality on the ground . I urge she to be a bit more thoughtful with regard to the danger that my UK - base diplomat and locally engage staff put themselves in . the truth be that I have receive nothing that give I any indication that Hamas or the other terrorist group operate in Gaza would respect a ceasefire . I respect the UN Secretary - General ' s call for a ceasefire . we would all love to see the bloodshed cease , but we have to be realistic about the fact that Hamas , like the other terrorist organisation in Gaza , have demonstrate over and again a complete callousness towards human life , whether israeli or palestinian . after all the decade of suffering , injustice and occupation endure by the palestinian people , this terrorism and the scene of death and destruction at Al - Ahli Arab Hospital be truly heart - wrench . those responsible must be hold to account , international law must be adhere to and there should be no collective punishment of the palestinian people . will the Secretary of State advise the House how he feel peace can be obtain , and of his effort to urgently deliver food , water , medicine and other aid to blockade Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman and the House will have hear the detailed explanation that I give in answer to the initial question of the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) . we work relentlessly with the country neighbour Israel and Gaza . I will travel to Egypt once again to try to facilitate humanitarian support , and we will work with those country that be able to influence the leadership in Gaza . we will not rest . we will continue to do everything we can to alleviate this terrible humanitarian situation . the hon . Gentleman ask what be the good thing to do for peace . a good starting point would be terrorist not fire rocket from densely populate area into Israel . I thank the Secretary of State for his clear commitment and true word that , I believe , have capture the collective opinion of we all in this House . as he say , last weekend Hamas terrorist kill 1 , 400 Israelis , injure 3 , 500 and kidnap almost 200 . the news last night and this morning fill we all with despair . the bombing of the ill and the elderly at Al - Ahli Arab Hospital be reprehensible to the extreme and to be condemn . however , the circumstance of that horrific event be not clear . do the Secretary of State agree that while horror and sympathy be to be express , judgment must be withhold until all fact be know and clear ? the hon . Gentleman , as always , speak with great thoughtfulness on this issue . the immediate and understandable expression of sympathy and condolence be absolutely right and proper , but that should not be conflate with a rush to judgment . do so have significant effect , and , as I have say , can quite credibly cause further pain , suffering and loss of life . we should all be conscious of that when we speak in the public domain . I thank the Secretary of State for the work he be do to bring home my constituent who be trap in Gaza . I note his comment about the consular support for UK national . I would be grateful for any further information he can provide — if he can — on facilitate the safe passage of UK national and the flow of humanitarian aid . I urge he to pursue these matter on his trip to the region later today . I assure the hon . Lady and the House that those be exactly the issue I will be raise on my forthcoming travel to the region . the consular team in the fcdo be make regular contact with those people in Gaza for whom we have contact detail , to give they as much notice as possible as and when an exit route become available . at the moment that have not become available , but we will keep work to open humanitarian route and to inform people once they be open . we do not yet know who be responsible for the unspeakable atrocity at the Gaza hospital , but we do know that hundred be kill and hundred more be injure ; we do know that yesterday an IDF airstrike hit an UNRWA — United Nations Relief and Works Agency — school where thousand be shelter , kill more ; and we do know that over 3 , 000 civilian have be kill in Gaza so far . Israel do have the right to self - defence , but that can not include mass bombing of densely populate area if Israel be simultaneously to stay within international law . I urge the Secretary of State to think again about the issue of a ceasefire . of course it would need to be work for and of course it be go to be hard , but unless the UK Government give their backing to the UN on this issue , thousand more will be kill . we should be on the right side of history and I be very much afraid right now that we will not be . Israel be one of the party engage in this military operation , but there be other , include Hamas and palestinian Islamic Jihad . I suggest that anybody call on Israel to cease military operation should at least — at least — call on the terrorist to do likewise . as hospital be target , medical relief organisation be desperately try to evacuate sick and wound patient to increasingly few place of safety , while protect the dedicated staff look after they . will the Foreign Secretary confirm how many function hospital be leave in Gaza and how Palestinians who continue to be target by bombardment be suppose to receive lifesave medical treatment ? the simple truth of the matter be that I do not know the status of the medical facility in Gaza . we want they to be protect — we have make that clear , and we will continue to do so in all future engagement and conversation we have with Israel . we will , of course , call on Hamas and the other terrorist organisation to remove themselves from the proximity of those hospital if they be conduct military operation . the UN report that the last water treatment desalination plant in Gaza have shut down . at the same time , people be drink contaminate tap water and polluted sea water . the World Health Organisation say that people need 15 litre of water a day and people in Gaza be survive on three . can the Foreign Secretary tell I what practical step be be take to ensure the resumption of fuel supply to water treatment work in Gaza ? the situation with regard to the provision of electricity , gas and water from Israel to Gaza be of course important . we have speak with Israel about this . the hon . Gentleman make the point that Gaza do have its own water production capability . we see video post by Hamas proudly demonstrate how water pipe , fund by european aid , be be rip up and turn into rocket to fire into Israel . although of course we speak with Israel about support to the Palestinians in Gaza , and our own support to the Palestinians in Gaza , we must not overlook the fact that Hamas have habitually persecute , punish and oppress the palestinian people in Gaza . we have already see one iranian terror proxy , Hamas , launch attack against Israel in the past 11 day , but we know that another iranian proxy , Hezbollah , be wait in the wing to attack Israel from the north — indeed , this may have already start . what step be the Government take to deter Hezbollah from seek to attack or otherwise undermine Israel at this most difficult time ? the hon . Lady make an incredibly important point . the United States of America and the United Kingdom have put naval asset in the eastern Mediterranean , as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister say at Prime Minister ' s question . that be not to conduct military operation ; it be to conduct surveillance operation to prevent Iran , or indeed anyone else , from supply Hezbollah with lethal aid that might be use against Israel . in recognise Israel ' s right to self - defence against Hamas ' s brutal terrorism , the Government have rightly cite international humanitarian law . however , it seem to be the position of the government that it have so far not yet be break . indeed , today the Foreign Secretary have several time cite President Herzog to that effect . by contrast , we have a number of UN agency and actor , non - governmental organisation and international lawyer all say that collective punishment be a clear breach of international humanitarian law , include , for example , the cutting off of supply and the forced movement of people . frankly , force people to leave their home or hospital because they be under threat of bombing be force movement . how do the Foreign Secretary address those contradiction in the UK Government ' s position ? there be no contradiction in the UK Government ' s position . I have set out the Government ' s position . the hon . Gentleman may disagree with it and other may disagree with it , but there be no contradiction . the terror attack on israeli citizen and the subsequent abduction be brutal and evil . the scene from Al - Ahli hospital last night on the television be beyond comprehension and upsetting , and it go without say that we have to do everything we can to stop the impending humanitarian crisis in Gaza from happen . but I be really concerned — I be sure the Foreign Secretary be — that the conflict between Israel and Hamas do not spill over into the street of any community in the United Kingdom . my home city , Manchester , be welcome of Muslim and Jew alike . what more be the Government do to ensure that the catastrophe in the middle east do not end up on the street of Britain ? the hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point . I can give he and the House our commitment to protect all community in the United Kingdom . no one should be hold responsible for action happen thousand of mile away . they have an absolute right to live in peace and security here in the UK . the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and the rest of the Government be absolutely committed to do everything we can to protect all people , of whatever faith or community , here in the UK . fourteen hundred year on from C á in Adomn á in , the law of the innocent to protect woman and child in conflict , both the terror of Hamas and the utterly disproportionate and illegal response by Israel stain our modern world . rather than the supine acceptance of israeli - US policy , will the Secretary of State instead hee the wise counsel of President Higgins of Ireland and seek both an immediate ceasefire and justice for the palestinian people ? UK foreign policy be set in London , not in Washington and not in Dublin . the Foreign Secretary have talk about accountability and accuracy in broadcast and social medium . do he share my bafflement at why the BBC , our national broadcaster , have repeatedly refuse to describe Hamas as a terrorist organisation when they be a proscribe terrorist group ? I be genuinely baffle by this . I understand that the BBC say that to do so would be to take side , but I fundamentally disagree with that . the BBC have use the word " terrorist " on a number of occasion , both domestically and internationally , and I just do not understand why it can not bring itself to describe Hamas as terrorist , because that be what they be . it be imperative that we get to the bottom of the terrible tragedy that unfold at the hospital last night , and hold to account whoever be responsible . when I visit the region last year , I see and hear just how difficult it be to supply medical care to the Palestinians . hospital across Gaza now face run out of food , fuel and water , and several have be give evacuation order which , accord to the World Health Organisation , patient will not survive . may I urge the Foreign Secretary once again to join the United Nations in call for the immediate resumption of essential supply to Gaza in line with international humanitarian law , which he say he keep call for ? the hon . Lady have repeat a question that have be ask in the House a number of time , and she will have hear the answer that I have give on each of those occasion . the grief and loss of million in Gaza and in Israel have only be add to by the horrific and heinous attack on Al - Ahli Hospital . I be pleased that both the Foreign Secretary and the shadow Foreign Secretary reiterate our commitment to international law and the importance of bring those who commit war crime to justice while also not rush to judgment . we have our own staff and international humanitarian agency on the ground in hospital in Gaza . what be the Foreign Secretary do to ensure that those hospital can carry on treat innocent civilian , work with the United Nations , the International Committee of the Red Cross and the hospital themselves ? we do of course speak with Israel , and , as I have say , we call on the Israelis to employ the professionalism of which they be understandably proud to minimise civilian casualty and to ensure that , where possible , civilian infrastructure — particularly school , hospital and religious site — be not damage . however , it be not by accident that Hamas habitually embe their terrorist operation in those very place , make the life of Palestinians inevitably far more dangerous than they would be otherwise . I commend the UK Government for the announcement of an extra £ 10 million of aid for Gaza , but that will be of no use to the civilian who be trap and injure there if it just pile up at the border . what analysis have the Foreign Secretary ' s official conduct of the legality of the israeli authority ’ order to restrict supply of water , food , fuel and electricity to Gaza , and the legality of their order to 1 . 1 million palestinian civilian in northern Gaza to evacuate and travel south ? those be question of legality , Foreign Secretary . the hon . and learn Lady will know that legal advice within the Department be for Ministers , to inform our decision making . the broad point be that we do of course want to end the suffering that Palestinians be experience , and the good way of do that be to remove the yoke of Hamas from their shoulder — which be why we support , within the framework of international law , Israel ' s right to self - defence . hundred of my constituent have write to I express horror at the attack that have happen in Israel and , now , at the unfold catastrophe in Gaza . one of they have 25 family member in Gaza . Al - Ahli be one of 22 hospital in northern Gaza . in view of the hundred kill last night , the child write their name on the palm of their hand , and the mother give birth in the street as their home be destroy and their hospital damage , can the Foreign Secretary update the House on the action be take with international partner now to ensure that hospital and medical staff be be protect , give that he say early today that he be not sure of the situation relate to hospital ? it be estimate that there be 50 , 000 mother in Gaza , include pregnant mother . will the Foreign Secretary update we on whether there be a plan for their healthcare , and on whether he be confident that that be be deal with and urgently need medical and humanitarian supply be get through ? as I say early , in a fast - evolve situation during a conflict such as this , it be extremely difficult to conduct an up - to - date assessment of the ability of medical facility in Gaza to maintain operation . we do of course want civilian and civilian infrastructure to be protect wherever possible , and we have communicate that to Israel , but let I say again that protect they be make infinitely more difficult in these circumstance , because Hamas and other terrorist organisation specifically embe themselves in civilian infrastructure . that be a long - stand habit of such organisation . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s recognition of the need to exercise caution before leap to conclusion , give the difficulty of verify information in situation of crisis , but will he commit himself to personally make contact with different social medium and technology company , urge they directly to help prevent the spread of disinformation and prevent any information war relate to this horrific situation ? I will not commit myself to do that personally , but I know that the Secretary of State for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport take this issue extremely seriously . we be , of course , take action to try to improve professionalism on social medium platform , and while I personally will not be make that contact directly , I know that it be be do , and will continue to be do , by the Government . at this tragic time , I be drive by my desire for peace and the protection of innocent . while this tragic war continue , will the Foreign Secretary do everything he can to ensure that international law be follow ? that , of course , include the protection of hospital , medical professional , civilian and humanitarian aid for Gaza . however , this war will only end through dialogue , so will the Foreign Secretary also do everything he can to keep the flame of hope for a negotiate peace settlement alive ? will he make that a priority for his government , even when , at time , it seem such a very distant hope ? the hon . Lady be entirely right about the need for we not to lose our desire to bring genuine , sustainable peace . as I have say , in these particularly difficult time that may seem a very far - off and , indeed , impossible aspiration , but we will remain relentlessly focused on bring a last , sustainable peace to the israeli and the palestinian people , and indeed to the wide region . I can give the hon . Lady the assurance that while deal with the immediate challenge , we will also keep that long - term aspiration at the forefront of our mind . will the british Government support Brazil ' s motion call for a humanitarian ceasefire , on which the UN Security Council will vote later today ? if not , what be the ground for not support it , give that the brazilian text include criticism of Hamas whereas the russian text debate on Monday do not ? if Hamas refuse to honour the ceasefire , as the Foreign Secretary fear , will they not be see by the eye of the world as not protect the people whom they purport to represent ? I have speak to the brazilian Foreign Minister about the text of the Security Council resolution , and we be liaise closely with the Brazilians and other , but I will not be able to give a commitment on our voting decision until the text be close and the negotiation have be conclude . when I visit Israel and Palestine three week ago with a group of mps , we meet aid worker and health worker who say their last goodbyes to their family every morning because they do not know whether they will return . there be an urgent need to support they , and the UK public be be very generous in response to appeal . in the absence of humanitarian corridor — and I support he in argue for they — can the Foreign Secretary update the House on effort to work with UK - base agency that be on the ground in Gaza to support the provision of mobile health clinic , medicine , food and water there ? the distribution plan for the initial £ 10 million that the Prime Minister announce on Monday be still be work on , but I can assure the hon . Lady that we be have very close relationship with non - governmental organisation and aid organisation base in the UK and operate in Gaza and the region . we will of course be liaise with they both in term of get an update understanding of the situation on the ground and of maximise our support to the palestinian people . the most urgent priority must be to prevent the loss of any more civilian life . to do so , the UN General Secretary have call for an immediate ceasefire . lead humanitarian agency such as Oxfam have also call for that . surely the Government must add their voice to that . do the Foreign Secretary accept that , if they do not , many thousand more will die ? will he also withdraw his early remark that what be go on be not force relocation ? if he do not , I believe that he will come to regret that remark . of course all of we want to see an end to the life that have be lose , but we also recognise that Israel feel the need to take action to protect the life of its citizen from the attack emanate from Hamas and other terrorist organisation in Gaza . we have always say that , in our support for that activity , we call upon it to abide by humanitarian law , as its President have commit to do . we need swift confirmation of who be responsible for the devastating attack on the Al - Ahli Arab Hospital , but the immediate priority be humanitarian support for those affect . the £ 10 million pledge by the UK Government be genuinely welcome , but can the Foreign Secretary explain how that aid be go to get to those affect , when Israel have close all humanitarian corridor ? the situation at the moment be that all humanitarian support go into Gaza be severely limited . there be an open , fluid border between Israel and Gaza , and ten of thousand of Palestinians from Gaza — ten of thousand of Gazans — work in Israel daily and move to and fro between Gaza and Israel . that crossing have to be close , as do the Rafah crossing into Egypt , in response to the terrorist attack that be perpetrate against Israel . we be work with the israeli Government , the egyptian Government and the international community to try to open up humanitarian corridor and we will continue to do so . the level of conflict information and indeed disinformation come from Gaza , and the irresponsible reporting of this as fact , include that come from the BBC yesterday , be surely something that we should be condemn . what be the Foreign Secretary and his Department do to correct this approach from broadcaster ? will he join I in say the blame should not be cast until all the fact be know , especially to avoid inflame tension both here and in the middle east ? this apply to we all , and particularly to broadcaster that have a high level of international standing . I be a big fan of the BBC and I know the huge influence that the voice of the BBC have internationally . because of that influence , it be incredibly important that the BBC and other broadcaster be very careful in the reporting of this issue , because of the sensitivity and because of the implication not just in the region itself but here in the UK . that be a general plea to all broadcaster . I represent a significant number of jewish and muslim constituent , many of whom have link to Israel and Palestine . my constituent be devastate and deeply concerned about the innocent civilian catch up in this horror and worry about the implication close to home . the sight that we have see overnight be horrify . I will not ask the Foreign Secretary for fact that he do not yet have , but we see this human tragedy unfold far overnight , so I be ask for clear assurance on deliverable humanitarian aid now . it be reasonable that we ask he to look as hard as possible at a ceasefire , which would of course apply to all party , because the innocent civilian in the region have to be our immediate priority . can he also comment on the need for urgent international work towards a peaceful long - term solution for the region ? the israeli and palestinian people deserve a bit more of a refocus on their long - term peace . the hon . Lady speak with great passion , which I know be genuine . when I be first appoint to the then Foreign and Commonwealth Office in February 2020 , I be the Minister for the Middle East and North Africa , and I can assure she that I have be personally focus on try to find a resolution to this long - stand and painful issue the entire time I have be a Minister in the foreign service . I can assure she that the Government remain focused on that long - term peaceful resolution to this terrible situation . I can also assure she that we want to see the money that we have allocate actually turn into humanitarian support for the palestinian people . that of course mean have humanitarian access , but that be not happen at the moment . we will continue to use all our diplomatic effort to try to unlock those humanitarian access route . resident in Walthamstow be mourn the loss of all civilian life in this conflict . it be very personal to they . Rania and Sharone be two Walthamstow resident . Sharone be here at the moment meet the Prime Minister about her parent who have be kidnap by Hamas . Rania and seven member of her family be stick in Gaza try desperately to get out . I want to put on record our thank to the Foreign Secretary and his officer for what they have do so far , but Sharone desperately need help to get more information , from whatever party or third - party agency , about her parent and the medical welfare , and Rania be desperate to get her family back home to we in Walthamstow , but there be misinformation on the ground as well . have the Foreign Secretary also consider whether the Kerem Shalom border could be look at as one way to get humanitarian aid into Gaza to help those affect by this crisis and to bring our people home ? I want to commend the work of our consular team that be deal with family who be suffer loss , who be grieve and who be deeply fearful for the welfare of their family and love one overseas . I know that the hon . Lady and other hon . and right hon . member will have constituent who be deeply fearful about what be go on . I would urge they all to use the consular contact detail that have be provide , and I be more than happy to make sure that they be circulate to anyone who do not have they . we maintain contact with all those family who have get in contact with we and we try to maintain contact with those british national who be currently stick in Gaza . I can give the hon . Lady and the House an absolute assurance that we will not rest and we will not step back from our duty to support british national overseas . I have have many hundred of email over the past few day from constituent who be deeply distressed at the ongoing loss of human life in the middle east . I have be move by the story from many of the medical professional on the ground in Gaza who have not only run out of medical supply , include painkiller , but have no water with which to carry out their job . when can they expect to receive those essential item ? the hon . Lady ask a pertinent and important question . at this stage , I be not able to give she any credible assurance on the timescale around this . obviously , we be work with the international community and the country in the region to try to get humanitarian access . we have set aside the money , as the Prime Minister say at Prime Minister ' s question early today , and we have forward - load some of our expert to ensure that any opportunity to provide humanitarian support can be utilise at very short notice , but the truth be that I be not able to give her assurance on timescale . the House be grateful to the Foreign Secretary and his colleague for be here for an hour and a half . there be a great many question to be ask , and I be glad that today everybody who wish to ask question on behalf of their constituent have have the opportunity to do so . let nobody doubt the fact that every member of this House think this be a most serious and sad situation . bill present International Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Fiona Bruce , support by Dame Andrea Leadsom , Sarah Champion , Sir Desmond Swayne , Sir Stephen Timms , Jim Shannon , Miriam Cates , Dr Lisa Cameron , Tim Farron , Bob Blackman , Caroline Lucas and Taiwo Owatemi , present a Bill to require the Prime Minister to appoint a Special Envoy for International Freedom of Religion or Belief ; to establish an Office of the Special Envoy ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 373 ) . government of Wales ( referendum on Devolution ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Rob Roberts present a Bill to make provision for a referendum on devolution in Wales ; to provide that no further such referendum may take place within twenty five year ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 374 ) . Brain Tumours Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to set a target for the number of glioblastoma patient who take part in clinical trial each year ; to require training for medical oncologist to include training relate to brain cancer ; to provide that any drug that have be license for use on tumour must be trialle on people with brain tumour ; to make provision in relation to neuro - oncology multidisciplinary team in the NHS , include a requirement that each such team must include a medical oncologist ; to require manufacturer of drug license to treat tumour to make those drug available in specify circumstance for clinical trial relate to brain tumour ; and for connected purpose . I hope the House will hear I today , because I have make this speech before and have absolutely no doubt that I will make it again . in fact , I will make this speech over and over again until we have turn a corner . my speech today be about glioblastoma brain tumour . it be the deadly disease that my wonderful sister , Margaret , suffer from for 18 month , and it be a deadly disease with which over 3 , 200 people be diagnose every year . for every one of those 3 , 200 people , there be a time when a doctor sit they down in a room and give they the bad news — the bad news . I can talk about that because , sadly , I have be in that room with Margaret . what they tell people be that there be no hope . the life expectancy for someone diagnose with a glioblastoma be , on average , nine month and , after a basic course of treatment , the NHS leave they to die . those who have the money travel abroad for private treatment , safe in the knowledge that the NHS have nothing to offer they . those who have a support network but who be not rich enough , be force to crowdfund and to fly thousand of mile to access treatment . the rest , sadly , have to accept their fate . there be no hope . they just have to wait . if they be lucky , they get to nine month . in March , when I make my first speech about glioblastoma , I feel the same way that I have always feel . I be fill with hopelessness , appal that the disease have be ignore for so long and leave at the bottom of the " too difficult " pile for 30 year . the Government have not touch the side of the £ 40 million they allocate for research into glioblastoma . after five year , they have spend just £ 12 million , a quarter of the amount promise . university have ignore glioblastoma for year , too . Glioblastoma be not even on the research agenda . many university be focus their resource on trial on mouse , neglect the 3 , 200 real people who be cry out for new research and clinical trial . it be a pretty grim landscape , but it have not be like this for people diagnose with many other cancer . People with breast , bowel and lung cancer have have the hope of research , clinical trial and funding promise be keep . the Government , university and pharmaceutical company have come together to make a concerted effort to change thing , and they do . just look at what we have do for people with lung cancer . in 2010 , only one in 10 people diagnose with lung cancer survive for five year . by 2020 , life expectancy have double . in 2010 , 83 % of people diagnose with breast cancer survive for five year . by 2020 , 86 % get to live for five year . in 2010 , 58 % of people diagnose with bowel cancer survive for five year . in 2020 , we manage to bring that figure up to 60 % . however , for people diagnose with a glioblastoma , there have be no progress and no hope that thing will get well . in 2010 , the five - year survival rate for people diagnose with a glioblastoma be 11 . 9 % . ten year later , in 2020 , the survival rate be almost identical : just 12 . 9 % . although the treatment and life expectancy of people diagnose with a glioblastoma have not change in 30 year , I feel more hopeful today because , since I make this speech in March , I have meet the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , and the shadow Secretary of State for Health , my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) . I have also meet clinician , charity , family and university , and last week I meet representative of the top pharmaceutical company in the UK to discuss why we be where we be . have build up a clear picture of where we be , I know that if we try something different , we can give people diagnose with this deadly disease some hope . so here be something different . first , we need a target of get 200 glioblastoma patient each year into clinical trial on drug that have the potential to change the course of the disease . that would be 1 , 000 patient over the lifetime of a Parliament . with those trial , we could begin to understand what work and what do not . secondly , the NHS should take every drug that have already be license to deal with other tumour and apply they to clinical trial on glioblastoma brain tumour . that have not yet happen because glioblastoma be a very small target market for the pharmaceutical industry , and such investment be not very profitable . the Government must either encourage or force the pharmaceutical company to provide the drug for these trial . apply those exist drug would be a cheap way to make a huge difference . it be sometimes the only way that make a difference . university should act as partner in these trial . they should be snap up the opportunity to carry out research in this area , instead of leave the field untouched . thirdly , the NHS should ensure that every neuro - oncology multidisciplinary team have a medical oncologist who be a core member and be require to attend meeting to discuss patient , so that brain tumour patient be not leave in a corner of the ward because there be no specialist argue for they . unless a neuro - oncologist be in the room , we will not benefit from their idea or expertise . fourthly , the NHS should require that every doctor train to be a medical oncologist should go through a mandatory course on brain tumour . at the moment , the Royal College of Physicians require no compulsory training . doctor have to take two course on bowel cancer as part of their training , but not a single course on brain tumour . the reason why there be nobody on those ward or in the research infrastructure be because nobody be require to do the training . who can apply for the research fund if there be nobody in the field ? if we do those four thing , we have a chance of some hope . I have not just whisk up this four - point plan ; it be the result of meet expert in the field , include none other than Dr Paul Mulholland , Europe ' s lead brain tumour oncologist . if we carry out those four step , expert think we can drastically improve treatment for everyone diagnose with a glioblastoma . some have even say that we could find a cure for glioblastoma within 10 year . Einstein famously say , " the definition of insanity be do the same thing over and over again and expect different result . " that be what we have be do for the past 30 year with the treatment of glioblastoma . we can do well , and Margaret ' s legacy demand nothing less . the hon . Lady will know that the whole House send she our sincere sympathy for the loss of her sister , and that we all recognise the courage it take for she to come to the House to speak about this very difficult subject . when I put the question , I be not go to call for the " Noes , " because I know that nobody will say " no . " question put and agree to . order , that Siobhain McDonagh , Tracey Crouch , Greg Smith , Steve Brine , Mr Alistair Carmichael , Mrs Sharon Hodgson , Tony Lloyd , Dame Meg Hillier , Mr Clive Betts , Jon Cruddas , Paul Blomfield and Sarah Owen present the Bill . Siobhain McDonagh accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 375 ) . Energy Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Energy Bill [ Lords ] for the purpose of supplement the order of 9 May 2023 ( Energy Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ) : consideration of Lords Message ( 1 ) proceeding on the Lords Message shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Andrew Bowie . ) question agree to . Energy Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message Clause 272 - local supply for community energy I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 274B . Lords amendment 274B be add to the Bill during consideration in the Lords of Commons amendment . as be set out , the Government do not agree with the inclusion of the amendment and , after far careful consideration , we remain of the same view today . the amendment commit the Government to a consultation " on the barrier prevent the development of community energy scheme " and set out whom we would consult . it also commit the Government to bring forward proposal to remove identify barrier to community energy . however , as a result of work closely with colleague who have make representation during the passage of the Bill , on 5 September I set out the Government ' s commitment to consult on the barrier that the sector face when develop project . as a part of that process , we be involve the community energy sector in design the consultation , through our community energy contact group . the group have already have constructive discussion on this work at its meeting early this month . the Government have already make a clear commitment to the consultation — I announce that commitment at the Dispatch Box in September . we therefore think it be unnecessary , and of no additional value , to put the specific of it in primary legislation . I thank my hon . friend for all the work he have do to put in place not just this consultation but the fund , which will be tremendously useful for these purpose too . do he accept that there be a sense of urgency here ; that there be a need to get on with remove these barrier ? if he be not content with the timetable set out in this amendment , will he give the House an indication of what he think the right timetable be , so that community energy company and other can know where they stand and get on with the good work that he and I be both in favour of ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his intervention . of course , I agree with he that pace be of the utmost importance in support community energy group around the country , which be why the contact group have already meet early this month and be engage already on identify the barrier that the consultation will seek to address and , thus , inform the Government as to what we need to do . that work be ongoing , which be why we do not feel that this amendment be require ; we have begin that process already . there be other issue with the amendment that mean we can not support its inclusion in the Bill . the amendment would place an additional obligation on the Government to bring forward proposal to remove these barrier within a specific timeframe . as I just say , we can not be sure what barrier will be raise in the consultation , or what the proper response to those barrier should be , until we have carry it out . we therefore can not create a legislative obligation to remove barrier within a six - month timeframe when we be not aware of the nature of the barrier and have not yet properly analyse they . I appreciate the Minister ' s argument , but that be technically not what the amendment say ; there be no requirement for legislative reform , only one to bring forward proposal . it be unfair to mislead the House — Order . it be not mislead the House ; the Minister might possibly have do so inadvertently , but he would not have be mislead the House . my apology to the Minister . I do not mean to make accusation so strongly . the challenge here be that subsection ( 4 ) of the new clause set out in the amendment contain no reference to legislation such as the Minister suggest . that be my point . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . it be the Department ' s view and mine that the amendment would result in legislation be require . as I say , we absolutely understand the importance of this , which be why I launch the consultation process as I do . it be why we be engage so closely with the sector and all interested party so that we can get this consultation up and run and out as soon as possible , and identify those barrier prevent community energy group from access the market . I know that he have a passion in this area and hold strong conviction on it . I would be happy to continue to work with he , alongside the community energy contact group , as we develop our proposal for the consultation . I also wish to reassure the House that we will continue to work closely with the sector to support its important work , both through our exist support , include , for example , the £ 10 million community energy fund , and in carry out the consultation , to which we have already commit . I call the Opposition spokesman . that be a disappointing and specious defence by the Minister of his intention not to proceed with these proposal from the other place . he know perfectly well what the barrier to develop community energy be ; we have debate they at length during the passage of the Bill . so I be not sure it be go to take a forensic panel of inquiry to find out what those detail be before the Government can act on any of these thing . we be on the last lap of the Energy Bill and it be particularly disappointing that we be hear what we be hear today about this Lords amendment . the Bill , which have be with we in both Houses for well over a year now , put into place many of the essential tool that will enable energy to progress towards a low - carbon , net zero future . the opposition have consistently support the Bill , while endeavour during its passage to strengthen it in its low carbon mission . we have try to place into the Bill further element to make it the good it can be in pursuit of its low - carbon mission , and there have be some juncture during its passage when the Minister have endeavour to take on board those suggestion for strengthen it , in some instance by draft a Government amendment that meet the purport of our amendment . I be grateful to the Minister for those change to the Bill and for the collegiate way in which the Bill have be debate and decide upon . however , there be exception to that , one of which be in front of we today . as the Minister state , it relate to community and local energy , which I be sure member will agree be and will be an important part of the future low carbon energy landscape . it have the potential to make a serious contribution to our local carbon arsenal of plant , while be fund and support by the community in which that plant be situate , make it easy to develop and able to restore the benefit of its operation to the community itself . Labour have commit to provide strong support for community energy , include the assistance of great British Energy , the company we propose to set up to support the development of local low carbon plant with community energy scheme . the potential for such scheme to contribute to the overall installation of low carbon system in the UK be immense , with perhaps 8 GW of install capacity add to the national stock through such local scheme . I remind the House that that be get on towards the equivalent capacity of three nuclear power station such as Hinkley Point C . we know that at the moment there be substantial legislative and administrative obstacle to the development of community energy , most notably the ability of community scheme to trade their output effectively . during the passage of the Bill , we try to introduce clause to address those problem . indeed , when the Bill first come to the House from another place , their lordship have insert clause to the Bill to that effect . unfortunately , the Government delete they during the Bill ' s Commons passage . as I be sure the House will appreciate , their lordship quite rightly feel very strongly about the issue , so they attempt to restore those passage to the Bill when it return to the Lords for ping pong . however , again , just recently , the Government reject those proposal . one of the barrier will be the shortage of grid and cable capacity to link into . be the hon . Gentleman envisage some kind of privileged access or some solution to the grid shortage ? that be not quite the subject of our debate , but the right hon . Member can see that we envisage an energetic and far - reach proposal to develop the grid in such a way that those grid shortage be overcome , so that the grid be able to service the low carbon economy in the way we would all want it to do . in the context of what we be discuss , I remind the right hon . member that this would be about distribute grid at a local level , rather than the national high - level grid . we need to take further action to strengthen and sort out grid at that level . the Lords clearly continue to feel strongly about this issue ; as we can see , they have send back to we today a modify version of the original amendment , require the Government to consult on change to assist community energy and , importantly , to set a timeline for proposal to be bring forward to remove barrier to the development of community energy . of course , there be other in this House who feel strongly about this issue . the proposal that the Lords have now twice try to have insert into the Bill be essentially the wording of a group call Power for the People , which suggest word for a community energy enable Bill for which it campaign to secure sign - up support from parliamentarian . it do indeed secure substantial support from parliamentarian who feel strongly on the issue of community energy . some 325 Members sign up in support , include 130 Conservative Members and , perhaps most remarkably , 22 member of the Government , include six Treasury Ministers , the present Chancellor and the Minister himself , as I often seek to remind he . there be no lack of support in the House for the principle and practice of community energy . the Lords amendment seek to acknowledge and far that support by put forward very reasonable and , one might have think , pretty non - contentious wording to add to the Bill . it be inexplicable to I that the Government should seek to resist these proposal in the way they have . yes , they will say , as the Minister have say , that they have set up a community energy fund of £ 10 million over two year , which be welcome , and they have verbally indicate that , at some stage , there will be a consultation on barrier to supply , but there be no timeline for that and no commitment to move positively forward from it . that be what this amendment seek to put right . as I have say , the Minister appear already to be a sign - up supporter of community energy action , and I would fear for his own emotional wellbeing if he be force today to perform another policy backflip and acquiesce in yet another Government repudiation of themselves in reject this late Lords amendment . instead , let we end the extended passage of the Bill on a high note , and all around the House agree on both the importance of community energy and the measure we will need to take to ensure it thrive in the future . I rise in support of the amendment . it be very similar to an amendment that I table during the previous stage of the Bill in the Commons . I echo the comment that have be make about the amendment be uncontentious . it call for additional consultation — if the Government want I to do that , I will do it myself for the community energy group . the net zero review hold several roundtable with a number of community energy group across the country . indeed , they be one of the reason why pillar 4 in the final report , " Mission Zero : Independent Review of Net Zero " , be " Net Zero and the Community " . one of the key finding of the review be that over half of all net zero decision will need to be take not by Government or Parliament , but outside this Chamber . we can turbocharge our transition towards net zero if we can empower and support more community energy group to take the action that need to be take . indeed , the only single wind turbine that have be build in the United Kingdom in the past year have be deliver through community energy . I be proud that it be in my home city of Bristol . Ambition Lawrence Weston have see its 4 . 25 MW turbine build and it will now power 3 , 500 home for the community energy project . the £ 4 million to pay for the project be raise by the group — it do not come cap in hand to Government — and now it will see an economic return of £ 140 , 000 a year as a result of the energy that will be sell to the grid . that be just one example of the myriad example of net zero project that demonstrate the economic opportunity that net zero can provide . in Bristol , we also have the Bristol City Leap , which be a result of a £ 7 million investment from Bristol City Council . there have be £ 424 million of inward investment from the american company Ameresco Ltd to decarbonise the city ' s district heat network . community energy point the way for demonstrate that net zero be not a cost , despite what some may say , but an opportunity . we must seize that opportunity now , not just to tackle the climate crisis or reach our nationally determine contribution for 2030 , because net zero be about 2030 not just about 2050 . we can not keep kick the can down the road , somehow suggest we be go to meet our carbon budget . meet they now , today , be absolutely vital to ensure we can meet our climate commitment in future carbon budget . community energy be here and now . we can get on with deliver net zero with the tool and technology we have , and , above all , with the people we have — individual and community across the country . community Energy England have 220 group , a third of which would like to build onshore wind turbine , like Ambition Lawrence Weston . they want to get on with it . they be not often be pay to do this ; they do it because they recognise what they can return to their community . as a Conservative who believe in the power of local community , we as a Government should be support local community to the hilt to deliver on energy action . when we look at the future of the grid , everything point to the fact that create flexibility on the edge of the grid enhance our energy security , allow we to return energy to the grid , free up energy capacity elsewhere , and free up our demand on oil and gas elsewhere . this be a no - brainer . I shall support Lords amendment 274B if it be push to a vote , although I will not push it to a vote myself . nevertheless , it be vital that we send a clear message not just that we be committed to the net zero pathway — because it be the right and the economically important thing to do — but that we recognise that , when it come to net zero , we need a big bang moment . we need to create little platoon of individual and community that be go out there write their own net zero narrative and story . for that reason , I will be support this Lords amendment today . I call the SNP spokesman . " specious " , say his Majesty ' s Opposition spokesperson about the argument against this amendment , to which I would add , have listen to the Minister ' s defence of the Government ' s position on community energy , that it be also one of the more tendentious argument that we have hear in this Chamber . I be not convince that the Minister be absolutely fully sign up to that which he have be put out today to defend . I think he know the importance of community generation and he be not content with the foot drag that his Government be force he to come here to defend . this be another extremely negative decision by a Government who show no let - up in their disdain for community ambition for disaggregated generation infrastructure , or , in fact , for the climate . if we contrast that ambition with the Tories ' now messianic devotion to the cult of nuclear , we see that next year everyone across these island will be well shoot of they , and nowhere more so will that be clear than in the energy space . lord amendment 274B be a perfectly sensible ambition . it be a pragmatic amendment by their lordship . it be balanced and deliverable , work with the grain of local ambition , and be destine to unlock significant value in the green transition . it would unlock local enterprise and it would unlock value - add in the real economy and promote community wellbee . there be nothing not to recommend about this ambition ; it be quite clear that it have positive for the people and for our community . it be no wonder , then , that this Tory Government will reject it out of hand . they have no interest in empower the people or power the green revolution . they would rather throw billion on to our energy bill to pay for nuclear , while they proscribe onshore wind in England up until September this year , leave Scotland to do all the heavy lifting as usual . why will these Tories not follow the SNP Scottish Government ' s lead in this priority ? the Scottish Government ' s community and renewable energy scheme promote community energy ownership across Scotland . CARES continue to help community engage , participate in and benefit from the transition to net zero . since 2010 , CARES have offer advice and support to more than 900 organisation and assist in the delivery of 600 community and locally own renewable project throughout Scotland , offer funding in the process of £ 58 million . just to clarify , that be just in Scotland , which rather put in the shade the £ 10 million on offer from the English Government to english community generation — whenever that happen . CARES accelerate progress towards the Scottish Government ' s target of 2 GW of renewable energy to be locally or community own by 2030 . the scheme assist in the delivery of both the Scottish Government ' s energy strategy and heat in building strategy through the provision of loan finance , grant funding and specialist advice . in Scotland , we see a Government of the people work with the people for their share ambition , but here in Westminster we see only the veneer of an Administration mask the infighting , bitter division and self - interest of that Tory party . the Scottish Government ' s community good practice principle , which have be widely adopt across the renewable industry , promote the provision of community benefit at a national level . they promote the equivalent of £ 5 , 000 per instal megawatt per annum , index - link for the life of the project . over £ 22 . 8 million have be pay out in community benefit to scottish community in the 12 month since August 2021 . England have a very similar scheme but — and it be a big tory - shaped but — as these fund be in the great part principally bear of onshore wind development , and the Tories introduce a de facto ban on onshore wind in 2015 , english community have lose out on million and million of pound in community fund thank to this dysfunctional UK / English Government . the Government ' s contorted priority directly increase reliance on insecure and costly gas generation , and they be continue to persist with the grotesque parody that they be on the side of work people by row back far on measure that would save household money and protect our planet by backtrack on home heating , insulation and electric vehicle target . the Tories be busy damaging community , damage investor confidence and damage the planet . in the midst of an energy price crisis , when low - cost , clean , home - produce energy have never be more important , there be enormous potential across these island for growth in small - scale renewable energy generation — especially by community group that can provide cheap , green power and then reinvest the profit locally . community energy scheme currently generate a mere 0 . 5 % of the UK ' s electricity — it be depressing . this could grow twentyfold in 10 year , accord to study by the Environmental Audit Committee , but only if we get action from a Westminster Government . we must also bear in mind how much of that 0 . 5 % of community generation be thank to the foresight and financial investment of the Scottish Government — investment that the Scottish Government must find from elsewhere in their budget , because if the English Government do not spend it , it be not consequentialised . that energy could power 2 . 2 million home and save 2 . 5 million tonne of co2 emission a year , while create over 30 , 000 job . as member on the Government ' s own Benches be point out , these thing be not an impediment to economic growth , but a driver of economic growth . furthermore , they would reduce dependence on energy import , all the while reduce reliance on foreign energy . a function UK Government would embrace this remarkable potential , accept the Lords amendment and seek to enable rather than disable local supply . the regulatory barrier that prevent community energy scheme from sell power to local customer be incongruous with both our climate emergency and the scale of current energy price . the new £ 10 million community energy fund be nothing but a paltry smokescreen , which will not scratch the surface and be a veil simply for this Tory Government ' s inaction and hostility to the ambition of the people and their drive for net zero . the Government can not hold a candle to the Scottish Government ' s record in this area , but it be high time they at least try to do so . let we remind ourselves what Lords amendment 247B be about . within 18 month of the Act be pass , the Secretary of State would be require to carry out a consultation and publish a report on the barrier prevent the development of community energy scheme . it would also require the Government to respond and bring forward proposal to remove the barrier prevent the development of community energy scheme within six month of the consultation closing . that be the bare minimum that the Government could do . it would at least move the issue forward , and yet the Government still put forward a motion to disagree with it . the Government say that they have already commit to consult on the barrier to local supply , but we still have not be give a date when that will actually happen . the Lords amendment would stop the Government ' s current policy of dither and delay and require they to get on with take community energy scheme forward . ultimately , the Government should not need to consult , because they be already well aware of what barrier face the sector ; Community Energy England have tell they repeatedly over the last five year . it be really disappointing , because there be even an all - party parliamentary group for community energy . official have engage with the APPG , yet nothing have happen because the Government , despite warm word , be not really commit to community energy . in 2021 , the Environmental Audit Committee publish a series of recommendation to encourage community energy . the only recommendation take forward so far be the community energy fund , and even that do not yet have a launch date . I hope that the Minister will tell I when the launch date will be . when will we see the fund for community energy ? we be in the middle of an energy crisis . bill have skyrocket . access to cheap , clean , home - produce energy have never be more vital . we need to secure our energy supply , protect consumer and reach net zero . as we have always say in the debate about reach net zero , we need to take people with we . that be not about delay target , as the Government have just do , but about encourage people to walk the difficult journey to net zero . community energy do exactly that . why be the Government not support it with all their might ? why be the Government not even support the Lords amendment ? it be the bare minimum . community energy have the potential to power 2 . 2 million home and save 2 . 5 million tonne of carbon dioxide emission every year . all it need be a Government who give it the support that it deserve . I have see at first hand the benefit that community energy can bring . in my Bath constituency , Bath and West Community Energy have instal enough renewable to power 4 , 500 home . it have invest the money that it have earn back into my local community , donate nearly £ 330 , 000 to support environmental and fuel poverty scheme . that be what community energy can do . what be there not to support ? why be the Government not commit to do all that they can to ensure that community energy project can be deliver ? rise — unfortunately , the Government be unwilling to see the potential of community energy . community energy scheme currently generate just 0 . 5 % of the UK ' s electricity . that be because — we know all this ; we have say it many time — the financial , technical and operational requirement involve in become a licensed supplier put initial cost at more than £ 1 million . that be a massive risk for any new start - up or small scheme . any community energy project such as the one in Bath can exist only because it have reach a certain size . that be one of the problem . the Government be aware of that fact , but vote to remove Lords amendment to rectify it . the Government need to start match their supportive word about community energy with action . the most effective step that they could take would be to enable local supply and remove the regulatory barrier that prevent community energy scheme from sell their power to local customer . that could include a community right to connect to the grid ahead of commercial project that deliver little or no social and community benefit . I be sure that I have answer the question that the right hon . member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) be about to ask . community energy scheme be ready to provide clean , green energy that help local community . they be not ask for a huge amount of public money , just for the Government to stop block the system . in this time of energy uncertainty , have a reliable local supplier can only be positive . I fully support Lords amendment 274B to hold the Government ' s foot to the fire on community energy . I urge everyone in this House to do the same . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for contribute to this afternoon ' s debate . I will first respond to some of the comment make by my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) . I know that he do not like it very much , and would like it if it be not the case , but he be absolutely wrong and I have to correct he : this be not the English Government ; this be the british Government . we be the Government of the entire United Kingdom — a United Kingdom of which Scotland remain a part and , if the opinion poll be anything to go by , will continue to remain a part of for quite some time . the hon . Member have an obsession with decry the nuclear industry as something that the Tories alone be obsess with . tell that to the government of France , Sweden , Finland , Italy , Poland , the Czech Republic , Slovakia , Canada , the United States of America and more , who be reinveste and restart their own civil nuclear industry , as be the Labour Welsh Government , who be very much in favour of further investment in , and development of , nuclear . he raise the lack of funding for community energy project ; £ 10 million over two year be an incredibly generous offer . that be alongside other UK growth funding such as the UK share prosperity fund , which community energy group can access by work in partnership with their local authority . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) ask when the community energy fund will be launch . it will be launch as soon as possible . we be aim to launch application to the fund as soon as we physically can . my opposite number , the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) , be right that we have have a productive and constructive relationship when it come to discussion of the Bill . the 72 hour that we spend together in Committee be beneficial to everybody ' s health , I be sure , and to the development of Government policy on this matter . we have come some way from where we be when we start discuss how we would support community energy . he rightly praise the role that the sector have play during the passage of the Bill . the community energy sector have be incredibly receptive to our commitment to a consultation and to the £ 10 million fund . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . do he notice that the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) would not give way ? she be argue — the typical position of her party — that it know all the answer before the consultation , yet it still want a very long , draw - out consultation to avoid do the answer . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I also notice that — will the Minister give way ? two second . I will respond to the first intervention before I give way to the hon . Lady . I also notice that she manage to answer a question that have not even be ask by my right hon . friend . the amendment also say that the Government should respond to the barrier and put forward proposal . that be really what we want to know : what be the response to any consultation ? the Government have fail to give any response to that . we can not respond to a consultation that have not be launch yet . we be in the process right now of work with the community energy contact group . in fact , it have already meet . work be under way right now to develop the consultation , identify what the barrier to market be , and get out there and support the community energy sector , as the Government be determined to do . will the Minister give way ? yes , of course — I be delighted to give way . the Minister be very kind . he be re - emphasise the importance of the £ 10 million community energy investment that he be make in England over two year . the Scottish Government have be invest £ 5 . 5 million every year for the last 13 year . if he think that his investment be outstanding , how would he characterise the Scottish Government ' s investment ? I welcome all government ' investment in support of community energy project across the United Kingdom , but this be a sharp change from the last time the hon . Member come to this place , when he be decry the fact that we be not extend community energy package across the United Kingdom . I think I have to inform and educate he that there be already a community benefit package in Scotland , operate by the Scottish Government . yes , there be problem with that scheme , and we will learn from the difficulty that it have face . that be why I be so sure that the scheme that we be launch — the £ 10 million to support community energy project the length and breadth of the country — be the right one , work in tandem with the fund that be already available north of the border for community energy project in my constituency and , indeed , in his . the hon . member for Southampton , Test speak about previous amendment on community energy . we have be clear that they would not provide the good outcome for consumer . a right to local supply already exist , and Ofgem have exist flexibility to award supply licence that be restrict to certain geography . we continue to believe that it be a commercial matter leave to supplier . lastly , I turn to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) . six month may be too soon , frankly , to adequately analyse the outcome of the consultation . it must fully take into consideration wide interdependency in the energy system . we will always aim to respond in a timely manner , but I would not want to put a strict timeframe in legislation . the Government support our route to net zero . the Government be take action to ensure that we be more energy secure and energy independent , and the Government be support community energy project the length and breadth of the country . for that reason , we should disagree to the Lords amendment before we . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 274B . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Matthew Hancock Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Amanda Solloway Robert Largan Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Jonathan Edwards Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Mary Foy Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner Kim Leadbeater Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 293 , Noes 181 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 274B disagree to . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up a Reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 274B ; that Andrew Bowie , Joy Morrissey , Mark Jenkinson , Chris Clarkson , Dr Alan Whitehead , Christian Wakeford and Dave Doogan be member of the Committee ; that Andrew Bowie be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Julie Marson . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . civil Aviation I beg to move , that the draft Airports Slot Allocation ( Alleviation of Usage Requirements ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 18 July , be approve . to the casual and untutored eye , this might seem a very small piece of legislation to bring to the Floor of the House of Commons . however , it be not only important to the sector but a useful illustration of the work of Ministers and parliamentarian in Committee , so it be nice to have a chance to focus on these quite technical and not especially controversial regulation . the regulation will be make under power confer by the Air Traffic Management and Unmanned Aircraft Act 2021 , which also rejoice in the name atmua . follow the UK ' s departure from the European Union , that legislation create a more flexible set of power for Ministers to implement alleviation measure for aircraft slot relate to the impact of covid - 19 , subject to a vote in both Houses . that allow the UK to adapt its approach so as to minimise disruption to consumer and support the recovery of the aviation sector . under ordinary circumstance , airline must operate aircraft slot 80 % of the time to retain the right to those same slot the follow year — that be know as the 80 : 20 rule , or the " use it or lose it " rule . it be design to encourage a more efficient use of scarce airport capacity . as a result of the effect of covid - 19 on air travel demand , however , alleviation from the rule have be provide since summer 2020 . the Department have see a strong recovery in passenger demand during 2023 , but there remain uncertainty and a lack of resilience in the industry , and demand on some route remain below the level see before the pandemic . those factor affect both demand , such as the number of return passenger , as well as supply , such as aircraft availability and staffing . they add to what have be term the long " covid tail " in rebuild resilience in the sector . thus , aircraft that be out of service during the pandemic now spend much long in maintenance and overhaul than would normally be the case . that phenomenon be compound by difficulty stem from the pandemic , which have affect access to spare part through global supply chain . although the industry have take step to address those challenge , they be expect to remain an issue during 2024 . the Government have therefore design a package of measure for the winter 2023 season to mitigate the adverse effect of that loss of resilience . the normal 80 : 20 rule on slot usage have be retain . however , it have be combine with some limited flexibility through a small pre - season hand - back allowance and a continuation of the previously adopt measure on the justified non - utilisation of slot . the Government have focus the measure on a return to business as usual . we be mindful of the need to balance support the sector through sensible and proportionate measure to aid its recovery and protect consumer from disruption , with the need to avoid excessive alleviation , which could distort competition . there be two key provision . the enhance justify non - utilisation of slot provision be first introduce for winter 2022 . they act as a safety net for airline if new restriction be introduce and they can justify not use slot . they protect the airline ' historic right to slot in scenario in which any reintroduce covid - 19 measure might severely reduce demand or the viability of a route . however , for any request for justified non - utilisation of slot , a rationale must be give to the independent co - ordinator for assessment of its merit against the provision . the second provision be a limited slot hand - back . for this winter season , the Government will again allow carrier to claim alleviation on up to 5 % of their slot at any airport hand back before the start of the season , as be do for this summer . the Government have offer that opportunity in the expectation that the industry will deliver a realistic schedule for winter 2023 , thereby minimise last - minute cancellation and delay . the opportunity to hand back slot before the start of the season have be particularly useful in ensure that airline deliver a robust schedule , and have help to provide certainty to consumer that schedule flight will operate . the measure will cover the winter 2023 season . the Department for Transport be consider whether further alleviation may be require for future season . through these measure , the Government aim to strike a balance between support the sector and minimise disruption to consumer while encourage recovery and ensure the efficient use of slot . the Minister say that the regulation before the House be a small piece of legislation . he be right , and scholar of Parliament will look back at this motion come to the Floor of the House as a strange occurrence . usually , we be up in the god in this place , in a draughty , dusty Committee room off a long corridor in this great edifice , but this Government have run out of legislation to consider in those Committee room , and have to bring this to the Floor of the House . they have run out of time , and they be fast run out of track . when we talk about the general demise of transport in the United Kingdom , we can see that the Government come to Manchester to cancel hs2 — they cancel it to my city in my city . they announce a tram to my constituency that be open in 2014 , and they launch Network North , which sound like a dodgy 1970 ITV franchise and be do on the back of a fag packet . the industry be not impress by the fact that the Secretary of State — who be not here — be make up conspiracy theory on the floor of the conference hall about 20 mph zone and 15 - minute city . the hon . Gentleman be very generous in give way , but can I ask he what part of his speech be to do with slot and aviation ? I be come on to that . this be about the general demise of transport — about abandon the centre ground and abandon an industry . we do not even have a Minister for aviation or for maritime in the House of Commons , whereas we in Labour support aviation and maritime to the hilt . when the Secretary of State be make up those conspiracy theory , the Minister — who be so keen on active travel : he walk the walk , talk the talk , and ride his bike as well — must have have his head in his hand . we in Labour offer industry reassurance and hope that thing will get well . to respond to the right hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) , let we talk about the motion at hand . as we know , the " use it or lose it " rule be relax throughout the pandemic : it be drop to 70 : 30 to ensure that no environmentally damaging ghost flight be take off . that be the right decision . slot be commercially important and highly prize by airline , give they a monopoly on a route . since the pandemic , there have be a strong recovery in passenger number and we be all grateful for that . however , the aviation industry can still exhibit a lack of resilience and some uncertainty at time and some route be still not yet at capacity . the pandemic have leave airline and airport with little resilience and tight staffing number and , as the Minister have mention , there be issue with aircraft availability and the global supply chain . with the benefit of hindsight , the Government ' s failure to support our world - class aviation sector during the pandemic have lead we here . we , as well as workforce representative and union , warn the Government that , if ten of thousand of skilled , train worker be sack or let go during the pandemic , it would be nigh on impossible to get back up to full speed — to be dynamic and react to industry demand . the two main provision in the regulation act as a safety net for airline . the first allow they to justify not use a slot if new restriction be to be introduce on particular route . of course , I hope that that will never be necessary , but if it should be , what datum and metric will be use ? do the Minister have an agree plan with industry on this ? the other main provision be a limit slot hand - back of up to 5 % of all slot , which be to be hand back before the start of the season . the justification for that be to ensure minimum delay and cancellation for consumer ; however , the autumn timetable begin in just 11 day . the explanatory memorandum say that passenger be expect to benefit from the relief contain in the legislation by retain good level of historic connectivity , but also point out the downside of this provision : a potential negative impact on the marketplace . the regulation be important to enable more airline to deliver realistic winter schedule , and should minimise the cancellation and delay that have blight the industry over the past few year . as I reference early , many of those problem be predict and avoidable : we can not hollow out a skilled workforce with security requirement and expect there to be no impact on the consumer . can the Minister update I on the work the Government have do to strengthen consumer right , ensure that passenger be pay compensation and refund that they be entitle to in a timely fashion ? we know that many airline sit on ten of million of pound - worth of voucher that be claim during the pandemic , which be due to run out for customer . these measure be bring in under exceptional circumstance . in a previous debate of this nature with one of the Minister ' s predecessor back in 2021 , it be say that it would take until 2023 for air traffic volume to increase back to 2019 level . I believe the current figure be that , on average , we be at around 88 % of those 2019 level . do the Government have a plan for what they will do in March 2024 , four year after the first debate of this nature take place ? the sector have still not bounce back fully . in May this year , I raise the point that the Government ' s approach be a very short - term one and , even take that into consideration , impact assessment be not be fully carry out . the Minister at the time assure I that the Government would continue to monitor impact as they go . have they be do so , and what be their finding ? I be still keen to see a retrospective assessment of the impact of the measure to ensure that these step be proportionate — neither too harsh nor too weak . have the extraordinary circumstance we find ourselves in in 2020 now become the norm in the aviation sector ? early this year , the Minister suggest that there would be a consultation on slot reform later in the year . could I be update on the progress of that consultation ? I have previously raise — and will continue to raise — the issue of airspace modernisation , which I know be something the Minister be keen on when he hold that post . that issue need to be address strategically , so when will we see more progress on it ? we could cut carbon tomorrow by 10 % , 20 % or 30 % if we upgrade our airspace . we have an analogue system in a digital age . as passenger demand be still in a recovery phase and we feel the hangover of the covid pandemic industry - wide , it be more important than ever to consider way to future - proof our airspace and achieve low emission in the process . I be thrilled that this statutory instrument be be take in the House — where I can talk about it — rather than up on the Committee corridor , because I would probably not have be select to sit on that Committee . on slot , my constituent be very concerned at the moment , not least about Luton airport , which have blight my constituency with its overflying . that do not affect the town of Luton at all , even though the airport be own by Luton Council . the flight massively affect the northern part of my constituency , particularly Markyate , Flamstead and the Gaddesdens . of course , we have a terrible situation at the moment with thousand of car still trap at Luton airport after the horrendous fire there . my constituent still can not get to their vehicle , and they do not know when they will be able to . flight be arrive and take off , but there be still massive problem with parking , because the airport be never design to be the size it be now . I rise to speak on this because the Government have make a decision — I be pleased it be call in ; and the decision be not make by Luton Council — that there will be a massive expansion of flight from Luton airport . I appreciate that this be not in the Minister ' s portfolio , but I use to be the shadow Minister , and I know how it be for someone on the Front Bench : this may not be in his portfolio , but I be afraid he be go to cop it . it be a ridiculous decision to allow Luton airport to expand when there be so many complaint from resident not from Luton . we have see the problem with the fire , but the airport be just not design to be this size , and it be not geographically suitable . I be not a hypocrite . have I fly from Luton airport in the past ? yes , I have . what have this get to do with slot ? I hate to say this to the shadow Minister , but this be about slot at Luton airport — in a Labour - control constituency — which I think he might be interested in , because my constituent really be . I just want to put on the record that increase slot will cause increase pollution and increase noise for my constituent . the decision to allow increase number of flight — the expansion will almost double Luton airport — be fundamentally oppose by I , and it will be a very sad day when it go ahead . I call the SNP spokesperson . I have be so look forward to this debate — now an annual debate — on airport slot . it be very good of the Leader of the House to invite we into the big room to discuss it , although I be not sure how much this will pad out this Session of Parliament , to be perfectly honest . I have speak about this issue many time before . I will not be speak for long , because of my voice and , ironically , because I be suppose to be meet an airline as we speak . the other reason I will not be speak for long be that this be to do with the eight slot co - ordinate airport , not one of which be in Scotland . however , we clearly have a huge interest in this with domestic flight . indeed , if the Government be to bring forward legislation on guarantee slot for domestic travel , particularly to London airport from Glasgow airport in my constituency , I would be grateful indeed . clearly , we be not go to oppose this motion . the Government be display uncharacteristic common sense in this motion , so it be one we will be support . shocking . indeed . it chill I to the bone to support Tory legislation , but here I be do just that . I will not repeat all the question ask by the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) . they include a question on consumer right , which he so skilfully shoehorn into a debate on airport slot , so I congratulate he on that . in particular , he raise the issue of airspace modernisation , which I have raise a number of time over the year and have push this Government on . they really need to get a grip on modernisation and push on , but I look forward to the Minister ' s answer . [ interruption . ] I hope he be pay attention because I be about to sit down . we will support he , and I look forward to his answer to hon . member ' question . we Liberal Democrats be supportive of relax the 20 : 80 rule during covid ; we could not have allow airline to fly empty flight just so they could keep their slot . the situation be now more complex . the dysfunction in the aviation industry now be just as much about managerial capacity failing as it be about the problem stem from the pandemic . there have be numerous allegation of abuse of the temporary rule by some airline to flex their muscle in the marketplace . we must guard against anti - competitive practice , which make it hard for new entrant to enter the market . allege attempt to hoard valuable heathrow slot have an impact on the availability , choice and price of flight . airline , airport and travel operator be one of the big single contributor to global emission . it be crucial that we ensure that flight be take off only when there be proper demand for they . there have be recovery in passenger demand , but there be continue uncertainty and a lack of resilience in the industry . recruitment remain a challenge . demand on some route remain below pre - pandemic level , and change to our working pattern have cause a drop in business travel . we must accept that these new pattern be the norm . the motion propose a package of measure for the winter 2023 season that let the normal 80 : 20 " use it or lose it " rule stay . however , there remain some limited flexibility for airline to keep hold of their carrier slot at airport through a small pre - season hand - back allowance of 5 % , and a continuation of the previously adopt justified non - utilisation of slot measure . although we be broadly supportive of the Government ' s plan , we be concerned that there have not be parity of Government support for public transport . the rail industry and public transport such as bus be also face change market . railway still face a £ 2 billion annual fare shortfall from pre - covid day that the Government be unwilling to fill . the bus and coach industry be experience driver shortage . there be no justification for the Government to protect just one industry from inefficiency and uncertainty in the market , and they must outline a timeline for when the covid mitigation give to airline will come to an end . why prioritise aviation over other mode of transportation ? airline need clarity and time to prepare , but there must come a point when the Government tell industry that it need to get on with thing itself . it be a delight to wind up this debate , and I thank colleague who have speak in what have be brief but deep and thoughtful exchange . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) rightly point to the anti - competitive potential of these measure , and also highlight their modesty and , therefore , the sensitivity — she be absolutely right about that . she be also right in her concern about ghost flight . at the risk of violently agree across the Chamber , I think she be also right on the question of how long these measure will continue for . I will address that issue far in my remark . the SNP spokesman , the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , be right to point out that there be no direct scottish interest in this , and I thank he , as I thank the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , for support this conservative legislation . I hope it become a habit for the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North , as it have do for his former colleague , my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) — I think that be a useful development in SNP politic . my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) — [ interruption . ] that be what I say . I say my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead , as the record will show . I be very sorry to hear again about the situation that his constituent have face in relation to what happen at Luton . I absolutely take on board , and the House will have note , his comment and concern about expansion and its impact locally . he will appreciate that , as with Active Travel , the bus and coach sector , and other item raise in the debate , that issue have nothing to do with the subject of this debate , and he be rightly critical of those who would crowbar in thing that be not relevant . however , the concern of any colleague be always relevant if it be a direct constituency matter . he be right to raise it and I thank he for that . I thank the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East for his support . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead say , the joy of have this debate on the Floor of the House of Commons be that a wide range of colleague can come and express a concern , and we can shine a little light on the statutory legislative process , which be of enormous importance to the conduct of this House and the two Chambers of Parliament . the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ask about the metric for use in relation to non - utilisation . those be set out in the excitingly entitle " principle of slot allocation " document at section 8 . 8 , which concern the " Justified non - utilisation of slot " , and those be the rule . to respond to his question about slot , obviously there be a consultation to be launch in due course , but those be the rule as they stand . in relation to work on consumer right , my right hon . friend will be aware that on 27 June 2023 the Government publish our response to the aviation consumer policy reform consultation , which set out legislative reform and non - legislative measure to ensure that passenger receive the good service possible . among the non - legislative measure be a considerable range of effort to work with industry on a variety of measure design to accelerate and speed up the protection of those right . he be absolutely right . in relation to the use of these measure in future , Baroness Vere of Norbiton , the aviation Minister , say in the House of Lords recently that she be ask herself the question as to when these measure would wind up , and she hope it would be soon . I think that represent the Government ' s position . it be true that we have a consultation plan on slot reform . member will also note that the level of consultation that inform this set of measure be well spell out in the explanatory memorandum to the legislation , and that set out in some detail what conversation and discussion have be have with the industry , and it provide a fairly compelling background to these modest but flexible measure . I thank my right hon . friend for allow I to intervene . I be one of those people who come in here just to listen , because this debate be not be hold in a dusty corridor somewhere upstairs — I be here to learn . I understand from my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) that the Ministry decide the number of slot , but who decide who get those slot ? be it the airport or some other body ? I have sit down , but I be happy to take a late question from my colleague . the number of slot derive from historical control over and entitlement to slot at exist airport , but there be also mechanism for reallocating slot that have be hand back and for allocate slot when they become available . those be conduct by an independent process and review by an independent process , and there be no plan in this legislation to make any change to that . go back to my speech early and the increase in slot at Luton airport , can the Minister indicate when the increase in flight will start to occur , so that I can inform my constituent how much of their life be go to be blight even more by the flight from Luton airport ? I be not sure I quite catch the force of the question , because I be be interrupt when my right hon . Friend speak . what be the timescale for the increase in slot from Luton airport , now that the Government have give permission for the expansion of Luton airport ? that will have a massive impact on my constituent , and I would like to inform they factually about what be go on . exist slot will follow the procedure lay out in the legislation . as regard future slot , they will be allocate accord to the consultation that we will be launch shortly . I should say that this be the last intervention I will take , Madam Deputy Speaker , since I have sit down before the two previous one . question put and agree to . business without Debate Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority Ordered , that Lucy Powell be appoint to the Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority in place of Thangam Debbonaire , until the end of the present Parliament , in pursuance of paragraph 1 ( d ) of Schedule 3 to the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 , as amend . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) order . the House will now be suspend pende the announcement of the result of the Select Committee Chair election . the Division bell will be ring when the House be ready to resume . sitting suspend . on resume — we now have the result of the election of Select Committee Chairs . in the Business and Trade Committee Chair election , 471 vote be cast , 10 of which be invalid . the counting go to two round . there be 430 active vote in the second round , exclude those ballot paper whose preference have be exhaust . the quota to be reach be therefore 216 vote . I can announce that Liam Byrne be elect Chair with 216 vote . in the Petitions Committee Chair election , 467 vote be cast , eight of which be invalid . the counting go to two round . there be 433 active vote in the second round exclude those ballot paper whose preference have be exhaust . the quota to be reach be therefore 217 vote . I can announce that Cat Smith be elect Chair with 227 vote . in the Committee on Standards Chair election , 471 vote be cast , 14 of which be invalid . the quota to be reach be therefore 229 vote . I can announce that Ms Harriet Harman be elect Chair with 341 vote . all three Chairs will take up their post immediately and I congratulate they on their election . the result of the count be under the alternative vote system and they will be make available as soon as possible in the Vote Office and be publish on the internet . South Fylde Line Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gagan Mohindra . ) Mr Deputy Speaker , it be a great pleasure to be hold this debate with a fellow Lancashire Member of Parliament in the Chair . in fact , we have go from one transport debate to another , albeit with a rather large gap in between . as a Lancashire MP yourself , you be more than well aware of the issue on our county ' s rail network and of the need for modernisation of the infrastructure and roll stock . indeed , you have fight diligently on behalf of your constituent for exactly the improvement that I be fight for for mine . today , I be pleased to be able to raise the subject of the South Fylde line . it be raise repeatedly not only on the doorstep , but at local event and in write correspondence . just stand on the platform at Preston station , people come up to I and say , " we need to do well than this . " throughout my time as Member of Parliament , I have fight to improve service . in this , we have see progress . the dilapidated Pacer train , which use to deposit waste directly on to the track , be thankfully a thing of the past . in 2018 , I be delighted to reopen the modernised Kirkham and Wesham station follow the installation of a new platform and two lift serve it , provide , at long last , a station that be accessible to all . I thank my really good friend for allow I to intervene . may I say that I be delighted to hear that news ? I last go to that station in July 1969 when I be go to the nearby Weeton camp . I have to say that it be show slight age then , and so , some 50 year later , I be really glad that it have be modernise . Colonel Bob , not only have it be modernise , but I still speak to constituent who remember you pass through in 1969 . once my right hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath — Beckenham . sorry . once my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) have pass through , he be never forget . the holy grail remain , however , the doubling of service on the line through the installation of a pass loop , and I be concerned that effort in that area have , frankly , stall . in June 2020 , I submit a full restore your railway bid to double train service on the South Fylde line . the bid be one of 50 submit , with the then Chancellor , now the Prime Minister , select it to be take forward with Government funding to help to put together a strategic outline business case . the SOBC be submit in November 2021 , and since then there have be no further progress or communication from the Department . my fellow bid partner and I feel slightly abandon , with even the formal email address of restore your railway now close . my purpose today be therefore to seek assurance that the project continue to have the Government ' s backing . the year of hard work that go into reach that stage must not be allow to fall by the wayside . early this year , I launch the campaign to get the South Fylde line back on track . I will give some context to where we find ourselves today . first open in the 1840 , a little over a decade on from Stephenson ' s Rocket , the history of the South Fylde line parallel the story of victorian Britain and our railway more generally . major expansion come in the latter decade of the 1800 , with new station open to serve the booming victorian holiday industry . that be grow in Fylde , not just in the beach resort and the residential community that spring up alongside they . they provide vital link for those commute to Liverpool , Greater Manchester and the great mill town of east Lancashire , where industry be boom . the post - war era see our railway enter a period of decline , with the rise of car and dwindle passenger number , and of course Dr Beeching ' s cut would soon follow . despite that , the South Fylde line survive as a two - track line until the 1980 , when the axe finally fall and the line be reduce to a single track capable of serve one train an hour in each direction . recent year have see something of a consensus reach around Beeching and the period of his cutback , and the closure that start with his report : they be a mistake . to echo the Prime Minister ' s recent word , they be an example of an " old consensus " that favour car over public transport . as the Minister know from our correspondence on the topic , the South Fylde line fall far short of what be satisfactory , and be even far from be a good service . reliability be a major issue , with one delay have an impact on service for the rest of the day , and a single track be neither the only issue nor the sole reason for the reliability issue . be it staff sickness , driver shortage , faulty train or signal issue , Fylde ' s commuter have hear it all . on a weekday evening , rail replacement service have become an increasingly common occurrence , turn a 20 - minute train journey from Lytham to Preston into one last almost an hour . in addition , Northern cut the frequency of weekend service in August , the peak of the summer tourist season , for reason that remain unclear to I . recent datum from on Time train list St Annes - on - the - Sea as the 2 , 204th rank station for reliability , with all station locate beyond the line ' s division at Kirkham and Wesham rank similarly . remarkably , that be an improvement from August , when the station fall outside the top 2 , 500 , out of just 2 , 617 open railway station across the UK . that be miserable read for Fylde ' s commuter and the many people who choose Fylde as a holiday destination . the train , I be afraid , be an unreliable option for they . my hon . friend be articulate very well the problem on the line regard punctuality , which we have see for far too long . of course , our aspiration for the South Fylde line be not just to improve punctuality but to double the number of train that run on the line every hour . in both our constituency , that would be of huge benefit to local tourism business in term of create job , inward investment and growth in our local economy . we both work so hard to get the feasibility funding that be deliver now over three year ago . would he urge our brilliant rail Minister to do everything that he can to try to look at creative solution around the capacity issue at Preston , so that we can finally take the project forward and both our constituency can benefit ? my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . Blackpool South get huge number of visitor . Blackpool pleasure beach have its own train station , yet people choose not to take the train to one of the big visitor attraction in the UK ; they come by other mean . it be absolutely ludicrous . it be a real privilege to be able to welcome my hon . friend , as he row in behind my ongoing campaign for the South Fylde line . it be great when colleague be work together for the same cause ; it add huge value . as the SOBC point out , the ranking be base only on service that be formally record as cancel . service turn around before reach the end of the line be not include , yet at Blackpool South , between March 2019 and March 2020 , this occur 173 time — the equivalent of 9 . 5 day - worth of service that do not complete the route . the problem have not go away . for the station not serve , these be effectively cancellation , yet they do not appear in the statistic as such . official figure be therefore significantly understate the problem . HS2 may no long be come to Preston , but link across Lancashire and to nearby city such as Liverpool and Manchester remain important . in addition , the west coast main line continue to offer frequent and relatively fast route to Glasgow , Edinburgh , Birmingham and London . the cost of those train be such that most people reserve seat on specific train to have the certainty they need about their arrival time , which they simply do not have on a South Fylde line service . the line travel through the heart of my constituency and we be deeply proud of it . we have several active friend group , who work tirelessly to improve station such as Lytham , St Anne ' s - on - the - Sea and Squires Gate . I want to see more people on the train , so that they can see and appreciate the work of the friend group . one need only read local author Steve Garrill ' s " Walks from the South Fylde Line " , or Community Rail Lancashire ' s " discover the South Fylde Line " to discover the trove of activity , be they leisure , cultural or entertainment , within reach of the line . whether relax on St Annes beach and walk over the sand dune , take in the estuary view from Lytham Green , or test your golfing skill at the world - class Royal Lytham , coastal Fylde have so much to offer and be a magnet for day - tripper and holidaymaker alike . beyond Lytham St Annes be Blackpool pleasure beach , one of the country ' s big visitor attraction . we also have a thriving night - time economy . all these activity be serve by the unreliable and infrequent service on the South Fylde line . as well as its fantastic hospitality and tourism offering , Fylde be a vibrant economic hub , and the rail line that serve it be vital for countless people commute into or around Fylde and on to destination beyond . a short walk from Salwick station , we have Springfields , for 75 year the home of british nuclear fuel manufacturing and a site that be prime to grow with the industry ' s expansion in the drive for net zero . this season , AFC Fylde have return to the National league — the fifth tier of english football — swell crowd . indeed , one of my London - base researcher tell I about his experience of leave a mid - week match at the start of injury time in the hope of catch the 9 . 30 pm train , miss the train by mere second , and instead have an hour ' s wait on the platform for the next one . similarly , supporter of nearby Blackpool and Preston North end will have have frustrating experience get to and from match , despite the club ' stadium lie a short distance from the South Fylde line . I know from my time on the Transport Committee that my hon . friend the Minister be passionate and have fight to ensure that his corner of East Sussex be serve by a service that meet the need of his constituent . I be privileged to have respond to this debate a Minister who understand the issue . when we serve together on that Committee , he be never frightened of challenge the industry and hold it to account , and shine a light on shoddy , inadequate service . he do that for his constituent ; I be do it for mine . let we consider a comparison between Bexhill in the south - east of England , and Fylde , Lancashire . Bexhill have hourly train to both London and Brighton , double to two in each direction during peak hour , with several additional train to Eastbourne , Hastings and Ashford International . battle see twice - hourly service to London and Hastings , with an additional London train service run during peak time . even Robertsbridge in my hon . friend the Minister ' s constituency — a village that , with a population of just over 2 , 000 , be comparable to Wrea Green in my constituency — be connect to both London and Hastings by two train an hour in each direction during peak time , with just 1 % of service cancel . that be the kind of connectivity that the Minister enjoy — he have fight for it — but the kind of which Fylde constituent can only dream . I be sure that he share my resolve to put that right . in response to the recent reliability issue that I mention , I run a survey of my constituent to seek feedback on that topic . I will share a couple of example that be representative of wide feedback and illustrate my point . these be the comment of a constituent : " I ' d love to be able to travel from Ansdell to my office in Liverpool but , with one train an hour mean often poor connection — and then that one train be prone to cancellation , it ' s rare that I feel I can risk it , so end up drive to Preston , which be long and park more expensive . " that do nothing to help our carbon footprint . another say : " if the train be reliable then I would use they but , after have to find contingency plan at the last moment on too many occasion I no long put myself through the stress of use they . unfortunately , I often have to drive to Preston to rescue strand family member when train be cancel with no reason ! the train timetable we have at the moment fail to connect with the train timetable go North and South . if I be go to London I have to spend almost an hour wait on a very cold and miserable platform and the same happen when I return . likewise when travel to Lancaster and further north . why would I do it ? I would park my car at Preston station and drive . " that be just madness . it all come at an environmental and financial cost , not to mention that it increase traffic on our road at busy time . the inefficiency of have to drive to the mainline station at Preston , a dozen or so mile away , will not be lose on my hon . friend the Minister . passenger number be relatively low , which I contend be a direct result of the infrequency and unreliability of the train , and have , I believe , lead to under - investment in the line — a vicious circle that we must now break . if level up be to be more than a slogan , people in Fylde should not have to continue put up with such abject service . let we look to the future and possible solution . to refer back to the Prime Minister , I wholeheartedly agree with his statement that : " what we really need be well transport connection in the north . " the cap on bus fare be fantastic , and I be grateful to the Government for their investment in Fylde ' s road . the new Preston west distributor road — the Edith Rigby Way — have open , along with a new junction to the M55 , while the M55 link road , know as the Moss Road , and the A585 Singleton bypass , be fast approach completion . however , as I mention at the start of the debate , the holy grail remain a return to twice - hourly train on the South Fylde line . the most efficient way to achieve that be the installation of a pass loop around Ansdell , enable train to pass each other roughly halfway through the line ' s route . we be not ask for anything extravagant — indeed , many of my constituent still remember a time when that line be dual track and service be more frequent . there be not a pass loop : the whole thing be dual track . as such , I believe that my ask on behalf of my constituent be modest , realistic and , above all , deliverable in a timely way . the scrapping of the northern leg of HS2 in favour of investing in the road and rail connection that link our community in the north deliver a great new chance to see this project become a reality . with £ 2 . 5 billion be allocate to local authority to spend on project in these area , there be an opportunity to deliver last change for community , such as deliver on the levelling up promise of recent year . as the Minister will recall , when I write to he this summer , one key obstacle he mention be the need to reserve capacity at Preston to allow certain platform to be use for future HS2 service . that problem have now be make obsolete by the Prime Minister ' s recent decision . the previously submit bid , which date back to 2021 , give three option for the project , range from £ 23 . 9 million to £ 47 . 3 million . those figure do not include the redevelopment of the former Royal Mail parcel platform at Preston for passenger service , which would instead have be carry out as part of hs2 ' s arrival , nor do they account for the inflation of the past two year , which have be particularly acute in the transport construction sector . I welcome that money , but with it be divide across the country and cost no doubt have rise , the Government may well still need to step in to support and help fund this critical project . rail connectivity be both our past and our future . investment in it can help deliver economic opportunity for the future of Fylde ' s hospitality , manufacturing and wide business sector . the Government have be make that point in recent week , and I hope their word be follow by deed . the pass loop be a project that we be cry out for , but it can become a reality only with the backing of both Government and local authority . I hope that I can count on my hon . friend the excellent Minister to help get the South Fylde line back on track . let ' s get on with it . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Fylde ( Mark Menzies ) on secure this debate on enhancement to passenger service on the South Fylde line . I really do appreciate his continued support for improve that line and the campaign he have lead on behalf of his constituent . he have be particularly kind to I , so let I reply in kind . I serve alongside my hon . friend on the Transport Select Committee . he work incredibly hard , not just for his own constituent and their transport need but for all constituent across this country , and I certainly appreciate that work . he now hold I to account , and he do so particularly well . I be grateful to he , and to Community Rail Lancashire and the South Fylde Line Community Rail Partnership , for all their work on the " Discover the South Fylde Line " guide . I be also grateful to the local volunteer involve in revamp the cycle shelter at St Annes - on - the - Sea station as part of its 150th anniversary back in the summer . there be more that my hon . friend do , and I be keen to help he do more — he will know that that be genuinely mean . I also understand the point that he make about the reliability of the service on that line , their frequency and the ultimate knock - on effect for passenger , particularly those look to make their connection to the west coast main line . I acknowledge that cancellation continue to be a challenge for Northern , largely due to sickness rate be high than average , training requirement to bring more driver into service , and aspect of Sunday work . I assure my hon . friend and the entire House that northern recognise that challenge and be continue to progress its improvement plan ; admittedly , though , some of these aspect will be address only through wide reform . my hon . friend will be aware that , with Sunday work be voluntary on Northern , we will have to reform the railway to ensure it work in the way that its passenger insist it should work . that be currently with the trade union , and we be look to they to play their part so that we can deliver a service that be fit for this century . my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of more frequent and reliable rail service to support his area ' s visitor economy , and I hear the call from my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Scott Benton ) in that regard . they both make the entirely reasonable point that relatively low passenger number on the South Fylde line may be due in part to a lack of reliability and therefore of trust in the line ' s service . it be a cycle we need to break and for which we need to find a solution . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Fylde for sponsor a bid to my Department ' s restore your railway programme . as he obviously know — indeed , he refer it , but for good order I repeat it — the bid call for the introduction of a pass loop on the South Fylde line to allow for the doubling of service from one train per hour to two train per hour . I hear his call , and I want to assist he . he be right that we have have a particular challenge at Preston . we have discuss that , and he have buy forward solution . I also hear he when he say that some of those issue may go away with the change to HS2 , and I be particularly keen to see if we now have a solution that we can put in place . these matter will take some time , as we work out the consequence of the decision to move away from the final phase of hs2 towards Network North . however , I can tell he that I will be look with my official to see if we now have a solution , and if that be the case , I want to be in a position to help he . I be not yet in a position to confirm the outcome of the bid , but I will be in contact with my hon . friend in due course , and I be very happy to meet he so that he can challenge I and official if he disagree with our conclusion . my hon . friend be completely right to highlight the comment by the Prime Minister about the need for well transport connection across the north . that be exactly why we have announce the Network North strategy , which will deliver improvement to various transport mode in the north of England , not just on rail . I know my hon . friend and other hon . member will have welcome the announcement of a brand - new £ 2 . 5 billion fund to transform local transport in 14 rural county , small city and town in every part of the north . that will cover the big city region , but also area outside they . notably , it could include more tram for Blackpool . my hon . friend be absolutely right that the Prime Minister ' s announcement on HS2 open up the conversation and allow we to explore possibility for transport project that will be locally lead and the effect of which will be more locally feel . I be very keen to work with he , my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South and other hon . member on how we harness those possibility and target improvement where they feel they be most need . I also want to highlight that my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary have agree that Cottam Parkway station on the Preston to Blackpool line should develop its full business case under the transform city fund . this be another example of how this government be deliver for the north of England . to conclude , I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Fylde , who I believe may be about to stand up and intervene — [ interruption . ] no , I get that wrong ; he be just excited that I be get he to the end , as I be sure you be , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank he for secure this debate , and for all he do to get everything his constituent need ; he be assiduous in that regard . I want to assure he that I take on board the point he make about the South Fylde line , and that my door be open to he to come and discuss the wide transport opportunity that will benefit his constituent under Network North . I also assure he that the loop and the issue at Preston will be look at again , and I hope we will find a solution that will finally deliver for he and his constituent . question put and agree to . House adjourn .