Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I would like to pay tribute to John Tamlyn , the Bar Doorkeeper who retire today after an incredible 36 year . John be a much - love member of the Doorkeeper team , whose career in the House of Commons begin in 1988 , first as an attendant to the Sergeant at arm office and then as Doorkeeper for the last 26 year . in that time , John have lead the Speaker ' s procession into the Chamber hundred of time . he be hugely respect and have develop a reputation as a font of all knowledge on Chamber procedure and a reliable source of information for member — some might say too much at time , John . to the team and those who work with he , John be know for be one of the smart dress doorkeeper who have a fantastic sense of humour . he be an expert on music — especially ' 70 disco and ' 80 pop , which he do enjoy — and I be tell that he be a mean dancer . he be also a keen photographer . I be sure that the whole House will join I in thank John for his loyal , lengthy service . I wish he a very happy retirement . thank you , John , for everything . hear , hear ! business before Questions Committee of Selection Ordered , that Stuart Anderson , Wendy Chamberlain , Samantha Dixon , Chris Elmore , Vicky Foxcroft , Rebecca Harris , Jessica Morden , Jeff Smith and Mark Tami be member of the Committee of Selection until the end of the current Parliament . — ( Mark Tami . ) Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Deputy Foreign Secretary be ask — Recognition of Palestine if he will set out a timeline for the potential recognition of a palestinian state . if he will support the immediate recognition of the state of Palestine . we want a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution : a safe , secure Israel alongside a viable , sovereign palestinian state . we be committed to recognise a palestinian state as a contribution to a peace process , at a time that be most conducive to that process . may I associate myself with your remark , Mr Speaker , about John the Doorkeeper ? who know that we have the same love of ' 70 disco ? I thank my right hon . friend for his reply . I must press he far on Government recognition of a palestinian state . that should have be a starting point 30 year ago . I believe that recognition would level the play field and kick - start the peace process , as have be recognise by so many of our european counterpart . Recognition should not come at the conclusion . what will the Government do if Israel refuse to entertain any move towards a two - state solution , which it have persistently and vocally reject ? I know that my hon . friend have press these issue , which be of huge importance to her constituent , for many year . no one have a veto on recognition . as I say , we want it to be part of a process ; it do not deliver a two - state solution in and of itself . but it be absolutely right that the Palestinians be enable to have a sovereign state . it be a just cause , and we will work with other partner to bring that about . order . can I just say to everybody that member be mean to speak through the Chair ? please look towards I or the mic might not pick you up . I hear what the Secretary of State say , but do he agree that the immediate recognition of the state of Palestine be vital to the UK ' s commitment to uphold international law and norm , vital to the process require to bring about an immediate and just peace , and vital to the notion that diplomatic mean and not violence be the way to resolve the conflict ? do he agree that failure to recognise the state of Palestine have have and continue to have catastrophic implication for the people of Palestine , as they face what the International Criminal Court have describe as plausible genocide ? the hon . Gentleman be right that peace will be achieve through a political solution , not through military mean . but I disagree that recognition itself will bring about peace . the Biden plan be on the table at the moment , and we would like Hamas and the israeli leadership to accept it . that be what will give we a ceasefire and get we to a place where we can achieve that two - state solution . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . may I welcome the Foreign Secretary to his new position , since this be the first time that we have meet across the Dispatch Box since we swap side ? I welcome all his team , especially the hon . member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , who be previously a respected and effective official in both the Ministries in which I serve as a Cabinet Minister . I urge the Foreign Secretary to avoid any suggestion of some sort of international legal - moral equivalence between a terrorist murderer and the elect head of a democratic state . in any question of an arm embargo , I remind he that just a few week ago , british arm and military personnel be defend our ally Israel from missile launch by Iran . let I begin by welcome the right hon . gentleman to his position . it be great to see he where he be , and not on the Government Benches . he will know that these be very serious issue , and that the test under criterion 2c be whether there be a " clear risk " . that be base on very careful assessment of the law . he would expect I to pursue that with all sobriety and integrity , and that be what I intend to do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Secretary of State will get bored of I continue to press he on the recognition of the state of Palestine . I hope not to test his patience , but I know in my heart that it be what Palestinians need to ignite hope . two state can not happen without that hope to unite Palestinians behind a final cause that will stop the killing for good . War have to stop , but that be not peace . peace be two state . he know that Netanyahu reject it , so when he speak to Netanyahu , do he talk about the two - state solution , and in particular the recognition of Palestine ? do he accept that if the UK follow the other 140 country that have do this , that would send a powerful message to both the palestinian people and Netanyahu ? let I reassure the hon . Lady that raise this issue do not test my patience . she be absolutely right . I reject and disagree with those in Israel who say that there can be no two - state solution . if there be no two - state solution , there be either one state or no state at all . I recognise why this be a press issue and why she raise it , but as I have say , we will do it at the appropriate moment , hopefully work with other partner as a road to the two state that we desire . Gaza : Permanent Ceasefire what step he be take to help secure a permanent ceasefire in Gaza . in my second week in the role I travel to Israel and to the west bank and call for an immediate ceasefire — something that none of my predecessor have do . in my meeting with both leader I call for an immediate ceasefire and make the urgent case , as have be describe , for a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution . I welcome my right hon . friend and all the team to their place . I thank he for call for a ceasefire when he visit Israel ; that have have a profound impact in my constituency . do he agree that a permanent ceasefire in Gaza be essential for the future of the people in Gaza , and would help to cool tension in the middle east , in particular give the attack on the Golan Heights and the escalate tension between Hezbollah and Israel , and even the Houthis ? my hon . friend be right . the death and destruction in Gaza in intolerable . the war need to end now . it be also the case that , give the escalation of tension in the region , if the Biden plan be adopt by both side , we would see that escalation come down . for life in Gaza and across the region , it be important that that plan be adopt now . Gaza : humanitarian Situation what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . the people of Gaza face a humanitarian catastrophe . humanitarian aid be a moral necessity . almost 90 % of the population in Gaza have be displace and the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ' s recent assessment find a risk of famine across the whole of Gaza . I thank the Minister for her answer . last week , I meet the palestinian ambassador to discuss the heartbreaking crisis in Gaza . since April , the volume of aid cargo enter the Gaza strip have decrease by around 50 % , at the same time as hospital remain damaged or , in many case , destroy . that be why I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s commitment to resume United Nations Relief and Works Agency funding and his demand for a ceasefire in the region . have resume that funding , what step be the Government take to allow that vital aid into Gaza and help those so desperately in need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . we be deeply concerned at a number of the development he mention . the UK be provide , and will continue to provide , significant humanitarian support to Gaza . however , we be also clear that Israel must meet its commitment to " flood Gaza with aid " — that be vital . I very much welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s decision on the International Criminal Court and on UNRWA funding . this morning I meet Oxfam , which tell I and other Members that , when Parliament be in recess this summer , up to 7 , 000 people in Gaza will be kill or injure — up to a third of they child . give that , will the Minister outline what urgent step the Government will take this summer to end this horror , include end UK arm sale to Israel ? too many people have die in Gaza and too little aid be get in . we be clear that Israel must take concrete step to protect civilian and aid worker , in accordance with international humanitarian law . this include deconfliction between military and humanitarian operation , and support the minimum operating requirement of the UN agency , as well , of course , as the other matter my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary lay out , include the need for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . last week , I meet some of my constituent in Ealing Southall who live in the Hanwell Broadway area . they tell I about Hanwell Friends of Sabastiya , a friendship and support network between our corner of west London and a village in the north of the west bank . my constituent have hear at first hand how Palestinians be suffer across the territory . what difference will the decision to restart UNRWA funding make to the life of ordinary Palestinians , and what discussion have the Minister have with UNRWA ' s commissioner - general to maximise its impact for the palestinian people ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter , because we be clear that UNRWA be the only humanitarian organisation that be able to operate at the scale require in Gaza . the Foreign Secretary , as hon . member will be aware , confirm to the House on 19 July that the UK would resume funding to UNRWA . on the same day , I meet UNRWA Commissioner - General Philippe Lazzarini to understand more from he about the situation on the ground and the reform that UNRWA be undertake . we also talk about this Government ' s release of £ 21 million in new fund to UNRWA to support its lifesave work in Gaza and the provision of basic service in the region . my constituent be appal by the death and destruction in Gaza . they know , as we do , that only an immediate , permanent ceasefire in exchange for the return of the hostage will put an end to this unacceptable and unbearable suffering . in the meantime , despite the israeli Government ' s promise to flood Gaza with aid , which the Minister mention , the reality be that they be put in place repeat and deadly obstruction . what conversation have the Government have with Israel to ensure that the Israelis end this denial of lifesave assistance ? I know that my hon . friend have a personal interest in this issue , and , indeed , experience of it follow the humanitarian work in which she be involve before come to this place . when the Foreign Secretary be in Israel he press Prime Minister Netanyahu to open all border crossing , include Rafah , to facilitate a significant increase in aid and to allow its safe , effective distribution within Gaza , and we will continue to press for that as a matter of urgency . despite the designation of Al - Mawasi as a humanitarian safe zone , there have be multiple israeli air strike which have kill dozen of civilian and wound many more , and have result in the bombing of a compound belong to the charity medical aid for Palestinians and the International Rescue Committee . what discussion have the Minister have with her israeli counterpart about stop any further attack on Al - Mawasi , where displace Gazans be order to go by the Israel Defence Forces for their own safety ? I know that this issue be of personal concern to my hon . friend and that he have visit the region many time , for instance when he be the shadow Minister for the middle east . he have ask specifically about the question of civilian in the conflict . we be aware that about 90 % of the population in Gaza have now be displace , some of they more than once . we need civilian to be protect , we need aid worker to be treat in accordance with international humanitarian law , and we need to ensure that there be deconfliction . as I say early , those be matter on which we , as the new Government , have be press . the World Health Organisation have warn that the lack of sanitation and clean water cause by the humanitarian crisis in Gaza pose a real risk of polio spread undetected among its people . will the UK Government consider support a mass vaccination programme in Gaza ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter , which the Foreign Secretary and I discuss directly with Dr Ghebreyesus , the head of the World Health Organisation , yesterday . my hon . friend be right about the severe concern about polio and the need for a vaccination scheme , and the World Health Organisation be work on such a scheme . when population be not receive the food and nutrition that they require , or clean water , the potential for infectious disease obviously increase , but the UK have provide significant food and nutrition support , as well as shelter and other essential material . we will continue to do that , and , indeed , to work with the World Health Organisation on these important matter . while the eye of the world be rightly on the shocking , dystopian situation in Gaza , we should not forget the humanitarian situation in the west bank , where a largely defenceless population be be ever more persecute and expose to violence and be see their home and land steal . may we please have a comprehensive set of sanction against violent settler , the organisation that support they in their activity and those who be complicit , at a state level , in what they be do ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for raise this issue . the health and wellbeing of those in the west bank be another of the issue that I discuss with Commissioner - General Lazzarini of UNRWA , because we be concerned about it . as would be expect , we be keep all sanction regime under review , include this one , and we remain concerned about not only the position of the population but the long - term issue surround a two - state solution , which be mention early . the Government have announce a strategic defence review , but the challenge face by the UK in the mid - 21st century be military - relate , development - relate and diplomacy - relate . may I have an assurance that the Foreign Office will have a distinct role to play in the strategic defence review — especially in the light of the conversation that we have just have , which have show the complexity of the UK ' s global posture in the 21st century ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his point . of course , all these issue be strongly related . we be absolutely determined to work with colleague in Defence , as well as across the whole government , so that we ensure that we be put our country ' s interest first and , above all , protect our security — the first responsibility of any Government . in recent month , Hamas have target Israel ' s Kerem Shalom good cross with rocket and mortar to prolong the misery of their own people . they be also estimate to have spend $ 150 million on construct their terror network by misappropriate aid . do the Minister accept that Hamas will always prioritise conflict with Israel over the wellbeing of their own citizen in Gaza , and that more step need to be take to stop the misappropriation of aid by Hamas ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . of course , aid material must always be provide directly to those in need , particularly in a situation of humanitarian catastrophe , which be currently the case in Gaza . it be incredibly important that food and nutrition , clean water , other form of sanitation , medicine and shelter be provide directly to those in need ; it be absolutely fundamental that they must not be misappropriate . of course , these be issue that we have discuss with UNRWA and other aid agency that be involve in the region . key to end the humanitarian crisis in Gaza be stop the sale of weapon to those who have show that they be prepared to use they indiscriminately against civilian . it have be suggest that the Government will continue to sell defensive weapon , but give that Israel define its entire campaign as " defensive " , how do they propose to tell we at the end of the review on international humanitarian law how many of the 40 , 000 civilian kill be kill with defensive weapon , as oppose to offensive weapon ? on what legal basis would such a determination be make ? the hon . member will be well aware that this be a legal process and have to be comply with . this Government be absolutely clear that we must act with integrity and ensure that we be follow all the legal procedure , as the Foreign Secretary set out last week in the House and have set out this morning . as shadow Foreign Secretary , the Secretary of State urge David Cameron to publish the fcdo ' s formal legal advice on whether Israel be breach international humanitarian law in Gaza . do the new ministerial team still think there be a compelling case for publish the Government ' s legal advice , and will the Government be publish it ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . the Foreign Secretary have be crystal clear that he will be as transparent as he possibly can . he will ensure that Parliament be fully update on these matter . I thank the Minister for that response . if we want to improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza , it be quite clear what the free world have to do : get rid of Hamas , who be murderer and terrorist . they hide in school and hospital , and they hide among civilian . they be the people who be bring death to Palestine . if we want to give Palestinians the humanitarian aid that we should give they , we have to get rid of Hamas . of course , this Government recognise that Hamas have use civilian as human shield . we be deeply concerned about the humanitarian situation , and I set out our response to that a few moment ago . we need to ensure that civilian be protect , and we will continue to press for that as a matter of absolute urgency . russian Sanctions Regime whether he plan to review the sanction regime against Russia . I thank my hon . friend for his question . this Government be determined to increase the pressure on Russia and support Ukraine . we will keep our Russia sanction regime under close review , and will go far to reduce Russia ' s capacity to wage war . the Government have already take further action , include through the European Political Community , by sanction an additional 11 ship as part of effort to disrupt and deter Russia ' s shadow fleet . in my early meeting , I have raise our Russia sanction consistently with my counterpart , and I will continue to work with our close ally in Europe and United States . the UK have sanction 2 , 000 individual and entity since Russia ' s unlawful full - scale invasion of Ukraine , yet since 2022 there have be just one instance of UK law enforcement securing sanction fund . what discussion be the Minister have with his counterpart across Government to ensure that those who evade sanction be hold to account and that money hold unlawfully be secure for the public purse ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that important question . this government will not hesitate to take firm action to close loophole and to strengthen the enforcement of sanction . he will understand that I will not comment on future designation or enforcement action . as I have say , we have already take some early step on the shadow fleet , but he be right : there be much more to do , whether to improve compliance or to target those who enable sanction individual to evade our sanction , and I will of course keep the House closely update . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his early statement call on the russian Government to release the british citizen Vladimir Kara - Murza . will he look at what further sanction might be use to put pressure on the russian Government to release he and other political prisoner , such as the american journalist Evan Gershkovich ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise this important question . we call for the release of all those detain in Russia on political ground , include those imprison for their opposition to Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine . we have meet many of the family of those concern , and we will continue to take this very seriously . I call the shadow Minister . may I start by congratulate the Minister on his appointment ? I know how hard he work on this brief in opposition . he will know that the long those russian sanction be in place , the more creative Russia become at circumvent they . what step do he and the Foreign Secretary plan to take to end the UK ' s indirect import of russian crude oil via the three refinery at Jamnagar , Vadinar and New Mangalore ? do the Foreign Secretary discuss that issue when he travel to see our Commonwealth friend in India last week ? it be a pleasure to see the hon . Lady in her position and to have work with she many time on these issue in the past , across these Benches and in other format . as the Foreign Secretary and I have already outline , we take robust action against Russia ' s shadow fleet , alongside ally at the European Political Community . we will continue to explore further option to strengthen our sanction , include in the energy sector , and the Foreign Secretary do indeed raise the issue at his meeting in Mangalore . [ Official Report , 3 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 4wc . ] ( correction ) UK - India Relations what recent discussion he have have with his indian counterpart on strengthen UK - India relation . I meet my indian counterpart , Dr Jaishankar , in Delhi on 24 July . we discuss how to unlock the potential of the UK - India relationship for economic growth and to develop a strong , deep partnership to reinvigorate that relationship . I be very pleased to launch the tech and security initiative , which bring together business across our two country work in those area . I thank my right hon . friend for his response . I recently meet a number of member of the grow indian population in my constituency of Livingston , and they be very clear with I that if we get our India - UK relation right over the come four or five year , it will be of huge benefit to both country . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the signing of the technology and security initiative within just a month of come into office show that we be work internationally to drive our economy and secure our country ? my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that the Trade Secretary announce the Government ' s intention to continue trade talk with India just yesterday , and I be sure there be more we can do to reduce barrier between our two country . the right hon . Gentleman have visit India , and he will know that the previous Government have clearly get a long way towards a free trade agreement but that it be stall because of the indian general election and then our general election . there be some stick point , and I wonder if he could update the House on his discussion on remove those stick point so that we can unlock the free trade deal that those on both side of this House want to see . the hon . Gentleman have great experience in these matter , but I disagree with he slightly . he will remember that the previous Government set a timetable and say that we would have a trade agreement by Diwali , but I be afraid the question be which one , because successive Diwalis pass and we do not get one . I be very pleased that the Trade Secretary have set out that we be go to continue negotiation , and of course these issue come up with my counterpart in Delhi . we now come to shadow Minister Alicia Kearns — welcome . thank you , Mr Speaker . the Foreign Secretary rightly visit India to discuss a trade agreement between our country . the Labour party regularly call for human right to be part of that UK - India trade deal . will he therefore update the House on whether he secure say agreement during his visit ? on human right , we on the conservative Benches welcome the fact that the Foreign Secretary raise with his counterpart the case of Jagtar Singh Johal , a british national whom the UN have determine to be arbitrarily detain , with report that he be subject to torture . will the Foreign Secretary confirm before the House today that he still believe , as he do a month ago , that Jagtar be be arbitrarily detain ? will he today publicly call for Jagtar ' s release , just as , from this Dispatch Box , he repeatedly urge the last Foreign Secretary to do ? will he meet Jagtar ' s family , as Lord Cameron do ? finally , have adopt the Foreign Affairs Committee ' s recommendation of a special envoy for Britain ' s wrongly detain abroad , when will he announce that somebody have be appoint ? the hon . Lady have raise these issue over many year , and this be a very serious case . I remain absolutely committed to push for fast progress and to resolve this issue . I of course raise it with the Minister of External Affairs in India last week . we continue to raise our concern , particularly about allegation of torture and the right to a fair trial . of course I will meet the family over the come week . Iran : allege Human Rights violation what discussion he have have with his iranian counterpart on alleged human right violation in that country . Iran ' s continued repression of woman and girl , ethnic and religious minority , and human right defender be unacceptable . we will continue to work with international partner to hold the regime to account , include at the UN Third Committee later this year . the iranian authority have be systematically target BBC persian staff and their family in an attempt to intimidate they into stop their work as journalist . freedom of the press be a fundamental right for people all over the world , so will the Foreign Secretary and his colleague commit to work across Government with the Culture Secretary to revisit the previous cut to BBC Persian , and look to increase funding for the vital work that the service do ? that be a very important question . Iran clearly remain an extremely hostile environment for journalist , who face harassment , arbitrary detention and long prison sentence . we will raise this issue with the new iranian Government when they be form — as the hon . Member will know , they be have their inauguration today , so there be no Ministers yet for I or the rest of the Foreign Office team to talk to . the Foreign Office currently provide a quarter of the BBC World Service budget , and we will no doubt look at that as part of the wide budget review . I welcome the Minister to his place . as we be tragically remind again this weekend , the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps be a destructive , malign and terrorist force that be operate through proxy in the middle east , include Hamas and Hezbollah . will the Minister please update the House on the ongoing work to proscribe the irgc , which the conservative sadly fail to do when they be in government ? will he please also reassure the House that the UK continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel against the irgc ' s continued aggression ? the Government recognise the threat that the irgc pose , and we will take the necessary measure to counter it at home and abroad . we will keep the list of proscribe terrorist organisation under careful review , but it would not be appropriate to comment on whether an organisation be under consideration at this time . Iran continue to destabilise the middle east through its support for its proxy and partner , and we will work with international partner to challenge that destabilising activity . NATO what step he be take to help strengthen NATO . one of my predecessor , Ernest Bevin , be instrumental in set up NATO , and that be why our commitment to NATO be unshakeable . the Washington summit demonstrate that NATO be big , strong and more united than ever . the Prime Minister and the Defence Secretary continue to engage with ally , and we be pleased to make our commitment to 2 . 5 % of gdp for defence spending . some of my proud moment in my admittedly reasonably short time as an MP so far have be join my community in Shefford to commemorate the incredible role play not just by british troop but by allied troop base in our local basis in support our way of life through the war . in that spirit , I welcome and celebrate Britain ' s renew commitment to NATO under Labour . however , with the previous Government have fail to deliver that crucial 2 . 5 % of gdp spending commitment , will the Secretary of State commit to work with Ministers as soon as the defence review be complete to ensure we have a timeline to deliver on that , as soon as financially possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to pay tribute to the work of our armed service and all of our veteran ; I thank he for do that in the House today . we have undertake a strategic defence review and we will ensure at an appropriate fiscal event in the come month that we set out a timetable to get to that 2 . 5 % of GDP . do the Foreign Secretary share my concern that the dominant strand in the US republican party be , at the moment , fall into the trap of renew isolationism ? what can we do to try to impress on our american ally that if they turn away from NATO they will only postpone a conflict that could otherwise be avoid completely ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman speak from immense experience on these matter . he will recognise that there be range of opinion on these issue within both political party in the United States . I be very pleased that Donald Trump speak recently to President Zelensky and that a supplemental $ 61 billion of aid to Ukraine be find recently . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Ukraine join NATO be vital not only to Ukraine ' s security but to the security of all european country ? it be absolutely right that at the NATO summit we be able to set out that irreversible pathway to membership for Ukraine , and that NATO be able to come together and speak with one voice . I be proud to have serve on NATO operation in both Bosnia and Kosovo . the 2 . 5 % of GDP commitment will strengthen our tie within NATO . will the Foreign Secretary commit to a timeline at the early opportunity to ensure that we do not have to cancel any defence project and that we have the 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence spending as soon as possible ? I thank the hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) for their service . I gently remind the hon . Gentleman that the last government to get to 2 . 5 % of GDP spending on defence be a Labour Government . we intend to get back there and those plan will be announce at a fiscal event in the future . Israel : compliance with International Law what his planned timescale be for complete his review of Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law . as soon as I come into office , I commission new advice on Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law in the context of war in Gaza . we be oblige to look at that advice under criterion 2C for item export . that be an ongoing process . I pledge to update the House as soon as I can on this very serious matter . I welcome the Government ' s change approach to the devastating conflict in Gaza and the fact that the review be order soon after the Foreign Secretary ' s appointment . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that , if the review be to conclude that Israel be breach international law , all action include halt arm sale would be consider as part of the Government ' s proportional response ? criterion 2C of our strategic export licensing criterion be a clear risk of breach of international humanitarian law . careful assessment have to be make . there be a then a legal process to enable we to reach a conclusion . of course , with all sobriety and integrity , I intend to do that and I will update the House as soon as I can . International Court of Justice Advisory Opinion whether he have have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the International Court of Justice ' s advisory opinion entitle , " legal consequence arise from the policy and practice of Israel in the occupy palestinian Territory , include East Jerusalem " , publish on 19 July 2024 . what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the International Court of Justice ' s advisory opinion entitle , " legal consequence arise from the policy and practice of Israel in the occupy palestinian Territory , include East Jerusalem " , publish on 19 July 2024 . we have be clear that the Government must uphold both our domestic and international legal obligation . the UK respect the independence of the ICJ . we receive the advisory opinion on 19 July and issue a statement that make it clear that we be consider it carefully before respond . my colleague on the Front Bench have already make it clear that they oppose the violence from settler on the west bank , but I be happy to expand on that point , if that be what my hon . friend and the right hon . Gentleman would like . I thank the Foreign Secretary for show bold leadership and unequivocal support for international law by drop the previous Government ' s opposition to the arrest warrant against Netanyahu . the ICJ ' s historic advisory opinion early this month make it clear that Israel ' s occupation and annexation of palestinian territory be unlawful , an issue on which many of we have campaign . what step be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure that Israel end its unlawful occupation , which include the recent expansion of israeli settlement on the west bank and the annexation of East Jerusalem ? I know that my hon . friend care deeply about these matter . the Foreign Secretary visit the region within a week of take office , and he have also raise those precise issue with the israeli authority . I reiterate that we be strongly opposed to the expansion of illegal settlement and rise settler violence . More west bank land have be declare state land by Israel this year than at any time since the Oslo accord . the british Government already have sanction against eight people and two group in relation to settler in the west bank , and we will look at all option when it come to tough action on issue relate to the west bank . can the Minister be clear about this ? the judgment or opinion give by the ICJ be , quite clearly , that the occupation of Gaza , the west bank and East Jerusalem be illegal . the settlement policy be illegal . do the Government accept that view , and if they do , what action will they take to ensure that appropriate sanction be take against Israel , include end arm supply , to ensure that that judgment be carry out , and that the people of Palestine can live in peace , and not under occupation ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . this be an extremely complex finding , cover 90 page . it be issue after considerable deliberation by the ICJ , and there be a variety of view from the judge . as we say at the time , it will take we some time to respond to the full judgment . we will update the House when we be in a position to do so . in the meantime , sanction will remain under review , as I mention in the previous answer . bangladesh : Human Rights what recent discussion he have have with his bangladeshi counterpart on the human right situation in that country . Bangladesh be an important Commonwealth friend , but we remain deeply concerned about recent event . I thank the many member from across this House who have raise the matter with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I speak to the Bangladesh high commissioner on 19 and 23 July . on 22 July , my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary call for an end to the violence , for democratic reform , and for the rule of law to be protect . follow the high death toll among student protester , international human right body be report further crackdown on dissent , from mass arrest and enforce disappearance to torture and unlawful killing . do the Minister agree that Bangladeshi people must have the right to exercise their fundamental human right , include the right to protest , and will she join I in express solidarity with bangladeshi people face repression , both in Bangladesh and around the world ? my hon . friend be an excellent champion for her constituent . the UK and our international partner continue to push for progress towards accountability and justice , include through an independent , impartial and transparent investigation into alleged human right violation . support for Ukraine what step he be take to support Ukraine . I be pleased that at the NATO conference , all nation be able to come together to reaffirm our commitment to Ukraine . we take great heart from Zelensky speak to the Cabinet for the first time , and we be unite in continue to stand with the people of Ukraine . of course I welcome the Secretary of State ' s and the Government ' s commitment to support Ukraine , and the provision of military and humanitarian aid be important , but sadly it will not be enough to secure long - term peace . will he reassure I that if and when the Ukrainians seek peace talk , the UK will stand by they , and support they absolutely in their effort to bring this wasteful and terrible war to a conclusion ? I welcome the Ukrainians ' desire to have peace summit , and to see so many nation come together to discuss the issue that be pertinent to get that peace . the hon . Lady know that the good way to achieve peace be for Russia to leave , for we to continue to stand with Ukraine , and for this to be a cross - party issue , which be just what we commit to in opposition . I be very grateful to the shadow Foreign Office team for ensure that this remain a bipartisan issue in the UK Parliament . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Secretary of State and all Ministers to the Front Bench , and I look forward to work with they . can the Secretary of State reassure the House that he be work flat out , as be the last government , on make sure that the roughly £ 2 billion of fund generate from the sale of Chelsea football club get distribute urgently , and reach those in desperate need of humanitarian assistance due to Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine ? do he agree that Chelsea FC be effectively now one of the large charitable organisation in the country , and that the soon the fund be mobilise , the well ? this be an ongoing and complex issue . we endeavour to do the good that we can , at pace , and be unpick much that happen under the previous Government . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Government be reconnecte Britain with the world in european capital , in NATO and at Blenheim , and I have be reset relation with Europe and reinforce support for Ukraine . I have also deepen partnership with the global south to tackle the climate crisis and unlock economic growth , and I be take a balanced approach on the middle east , call for an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage and more aid into Gaza . a builder live on Portland , a B & B owner in Weymouth and a shopkeeper on Swanage high street all pay their fair share of tax , yet some individual take advantage of offshore tax haven such as the British Virgin Islands to avoid pay their fair share . my constituent play by the rule ; we ought to know a bit more about those who choose not to . can the Secretary of State set out what step his Department be take to throw open the book in british tax haven and implement public register of beneficial ownership ? I raise this issue in opposition — I think it be the subject of the last speech I give before the election — and it be an issue that I intend to take up with full vigour . we be concerned that part of the last Government be turn a blind eye to these issue . I hope to come forward with further proposal in the come week . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the Foreign Secretary will get full support from the opposition in impose open register of beneficial ownership on the overseas territory . can I ask the Foreign Secretary to pay special attention to Sudan , which be suffer the large displacement crisis in the world ? there be clear evidence of ethnic cleansing once again in Darfur , and the human misery that I see on the border with Chad early this year be among the most harrowing that I have ever see . I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . I be able to raise the issue of Sudan with G7 Foreign Ministers in my first day in office , and I continue to hold discussion with the United States , which , as he will know , have summon a gathering in Switzerland to try to achieve peace . both main party commit in their manifesto to restore the 0 . 7 % international development target . as the Foreign Secretary will have see , last year we reach nearly 0 . 6 % . will he discuss with the Treasury return to 0 . 7 % , not in one bite , but over the next two year ? that would secure the good value for money for british taxpayer and also help those most in need . I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman early , but this be one area that be leave in a mess . frankly , £ 3 . 4 billion be spend on refugee in hotel be the lion ' s share of that amount . that be a lot for I and my hon . friend the Minister with responsibility for development to deal with , but we will do all we can to get back to that 0 . 7 % as soon as possible . next week mark five year since the illegal revocation of article 370 and 35a take away what little autonomy the Kashmiris have and pave the way for further persecution of the Kashmiris by the indian armed force . will the Minister make it clear that she be committed to uphold international law ? will she confirm that the UK will uphold UN resolution 47 , which demand the birthright of the Kashmiris — the right to a free and fair plebiscite ? I thank the hon . member for his passionate defence of human right in Kashmir . he of course understand the UK Government ' s position that all country should respect sovereignty , human right and the rule of law , and we push all party to work towards uphold United Nations resolution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this weekend , we see an escalation across the UN blue line when Hezbollah and Israel exchange rocket fire and 12 Druze child tragically lose their life . one child die in war be too many , no matter what nationality they may be , but this region be a tinderbox . what be the Foreign Secretary do to calm the area now that we have see an escalation , because surely that could be a disaster for the region ? the hon . Lady be right : the situation on the de facto border between Lebanon and Israel be very concerning . we urge all party to act with caution . the UK condemn the strike in the Golan height , which have tragically claim the life of 12 people . Hezbollah must cease its act and its destabilising activity . I be pleased to speak to the Prime Minister yesterday , and I will say more on Lebanon in the come hour . on 19 July , the Foreign Secretary state that half a million people in Gaza be in phase 5 of acute food insecurity , the classification that indicate starvation and famine . unicef report that 29 child have die from malnutrition . how do the Government plan to change that , as Palestinians face the harrowing reality of death by starvation because of a political choice ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue , which we have discuss previously in this Question Time . we be deeply concerned about the humanitarian situation in Gaza ; we have reflect that in our policy response , but also in our humanitarian response . for example , in the statement that the Foreign Secretary make on his visit to the region , he commit £ 5 . 5 million to UK - Med , which be provide a field hospital on the ground that be desperately need . we have also ensure that there will be continue provision of the item of medicine , food and nutrition that be require ; we will play our part in that . the united support for Ukraine be not share in the United States ; there have be worry comment by the republican vice - presidential candidate . the Foreign Secretary know Mr Vance . what assurance have he have from he regard financial and military support for Ukraine should trump win ? the US have commit over £ 135 billion in support for Ukraine , include the supplemental $ 61 billion , and we thank it for that . I be very pleased to meet with J . d . vance at the Munich conference and subsequently in Washington DC , and I continue to have good conversation with he about these very important issue . the destruction and loss of life in Bangladesh be of grave concern to I and a great number of my constituent . I welcome the conversation that the Minister have already have with Bangladeshi counterpart , urge calm . what measure be be take to support british national in Bangladesh ? will she join I in thank the Bangladeshi community in my constituency of Liverpool Wavertree , who contribute so much to our city ? I thank my hon . friend for be so active on this issue , include in the parliamentary engagement on Bangladesh last week . the UK be deeply concerned about the violence by state and state - sponsor actor . we have update the travel advice ; all the information be available on the fcdo website . we be very open to take personal email from she , or from any other hon . member who have constituent with concern , either in Bangladesh or in the UK . in quick succession , the new Government have renew unconditional funding for UNRWA , despite the Hamas link , and endorse the International Criminal Court ' s controversial case . follow Hezbollah ' s attack at the weekend , will the Government reflect on the step - by - step abandonment of one of our close ally in the middle east , and the potential impact that could have on continue , rather than curtail , conflict and delay the peace settlement that we all want to see in the middle east ? there be absolutely no abandonment of our close tie and relationship with Israel , and it be hugely important for I to speak to both the Prime Minister and the President to reiterate that . but in reflect on the work of Madame Colonna and her report — I urge the right hon . gentleman to read that report and its recommendation — it be also right that we come forward with the funding , like all the rest of our international ally . we do that with an extra £ 21 million , and I remind the right hon . Gentleman that £ 1 million of that funding be to ensure that those recommendation be implement to ensure the neutrality of UNRWA . follow the recent ruling by the International Court of Justice , what step be the Government take to ensure that Israel comply with its international legal obligation ? my hon . friend have take up these issue time and again in the House . let I make it clear that the expansion we have see this year be entirely unacceptable — it be more than the last 20 year combine . we be keep these issue under review and , of course , I raise they with Prime Minister Netanyahu when I see he in Israel . will the Government commit to do whatever they can to urgently secure an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , get the hostage home , and re - establish as soon as possible a dedicated peace process to set we on the path to a two - state solution , as raise by many of my hon . friend today , include my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) ? I think the hon . Lady speak for the whole House in the way that she put her comment , and I give she that undertaking . what step be be take to support peace and human right in Colombia ? the UK be the UN Security Council penholder for Colombia , so will the Minister say more about what step the Government can take , or any new initiative , to support the full implementation of the 2016 colombian peace agreement ? I thank my hon . friend for her question ; I know she have visit the region and have a keen interest in it . Colombia be one of the 32 country currently designate by the fcdo as a human right priority country . we work closely with the Government and community there , include indigenous community , to address violence against woman and girl , and the UK have commit £ 80 million to peace , stability and human right , work together with civil society across the piece . this summer mark the 50th anniversary of Turkey ' s illegal invasion and occupation of the northern part of the island of Cyprus . will the Foreign Secretary tell the House what step and initiative his Government be go to take to seek to resolve that frozen conflict , for which the British Government have a historical responsibility as a guarantor power ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his important question ; I be well aware of his interest in this issue over many year . as a government , we remain committed to a bizonal , bicommunal federation on the basis of political equality and adherence to United Nations Security Council resolution , and we will continue to engage with the United Nations envoy and the UN process on this important matter . what assessment have the Government make of the potential implication for asylum accommodation policy of use the overseas development budget to help to fund asylum accommodation ? as we have mention , this Government be commit to restore overseas development assistance to 0 . 7 % of gross national income as soon as fiscal circumstance allow and , overall , to restore our development reputation and reconnecte our country to country in the global south . the delivery of aid by this Government be make more challenging by what take place previously , with the uncontrolled expansion of so - call in - donor refugee cost . in 2023 , the UK spend £ 4 . 3 billion of overseas development assistance on in - donor refugee cost — that be 27 . 9 % of UK ODA . we be determined to ensure that we do not have the kind of unplanned reduction that we see before . what step will the british Government be take , follow the highly dispute result in Venezuela of the election of President Maduro , to work with our american colleague over the dispute land in Guyana to prevent any incursion there ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue . the dispute election in the last few day be of huge concern , and I issue a statement on it yesterday . there be ongoing discussion with our american friend , and indeed with the state of Guyana , give the threat from Maduro in the past . it have just be reveal that the UK have fall out of the top 10 manufacturer globally . do my right hon . friend agree that strengthen our country ' s trading relationship with the European Union , in respect of good as well as service , need to be an essential part of achieve the Government ' s ambition for grow the economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that our big trading relationship be with the European Union . he know that the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , get the paper - thin deal that he do . we do not yet have a new Commission in place . we be absolutely committed to a new veterinary deal and to deal with the issue of qualification in particular , but we will take forward discussion with the European Union in good spirit in the come month , as soon as the Commission be in place . Ethiopia be on the cusp of recognise the Republic of Somaliland . will the Minister look at where british policy be , to make sure that it reflect the new reality ? might she have time to meet I to discuss how we can strengthen and deepen the relationship between Britain and the Republic of Somaliland ? the UK have encourage dialogue between Ethiopia and Somalia on the Ethiopia - Somaliland memorandum of understanding . we have also express our full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Somalia . I would of course be happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman to discuss any issue , include that one . I welcome my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and his team to their place . I have discuss with many of they the chronic human right situation in West Papua over many year . in 2019 , President Widodo invite the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to visit West Papua , but that visit have not yet take place . what step be the Government take to ensure that such a visit take place , with both the Indonesian Government and the United Nations ? I thank my hon . friend for his interparliamentary work on that important issue . the UK strongly support the effort of the authority and civil society to address the legitimate concern of the people of Papua , as my hon . friend have highlight many time in this House . we continue to monitor the situation in Papua , include the ongoing issue of internal civil displacement cause by clash between separatist and indonesian security force in Papua . the UK remain supportive of a visit by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights . have the Foreign Secretary have an opportunity to meet his counterpart in the Irish Republic , give the ministerial statement there in recent month regard the thousand of people they believe to be there illegally , who they say have come from the United Kingdom ? what can be do to try to resolve that matter in a way that will satisfy both nation ? I be very pleased , alongside the Prime Minister , to meet the Irish Taoiseach and to discuss that and other issue . Mr Speaker , you and I be both old enough to remember Tiananmen Square . the use of lethal force on student protester in Bangladesh have rightly be condemn by our Government . I urge the Government to put pressure on the Bangladeshi investigation , so that it have an international element , because a country that can just turn off all communication with the outside world and that control all institution , right down to its stormtrooper - like police , should not be allow to mark its own homework . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have be very clear that what have happen in the last couple of week in Bangladesh be not acceptable — we have raise it on a number of occasion — include the nature of the judicial review that be currently be undertake by the Government of Bangladesh . a 25 - year - old constituent of mine go miss in Sardinia on the evening of Saturday 13 July . the italian authority call off the search on Friday , so will the Foreign Secretary meet I to urge the italian authority to help to find my constituent ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for represent the concern of his constituent ' s family . I recognise that this be a very distressing time for they . he will know that consular official be provide support to the family and have remain in regular contact with the authority in Italy , and the ambassador have raise this case with the italian authority . [ Official Report , 2 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) they have end the active search , but the investigation be ongoing , and I would be happy to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss it far . I thank the Foreign Secretary and his team for the £ 500 , 000 commit to the Caribbean after the devastation on Grenada and Carriacou as a result of Hurricane Beryl , but can I press he and the team on the fact that the Caribbean be at the sharp end of the climate crisis ? will he tell the House what plan he have to advocate at COP29 for a replacement of the $ 100 billion climate finance deal ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for take up such issue from the Back Benches . he will know that I be deal with these matter on day one in office . very sadly , this be the beginning of the hurricane season across the region , so I will keep in close touch with my caribbean colleague , and I expect to have further conversation later today . we of course want to take up those issue as we head to COP . I be sure the House will agree that the situation in Gaza , particularly for child , be absolutely horrific , with report estimate that up to 50 , 000 child require health - relate treatment — and that be not even include conflict - relate injury . do the Secretary of State agree that , along with international partner , we must secure a mechanism that allow these child to be treat here in the UK , especially as many hospital facility in Gaza have be erase ? the issue of medical treatment in Gaza — include , of course , for child — be one that this Government take very seriously . we have reflect that in our operation since come into office , in particular by support UK - Med , which operate a field hospital that the hon . member may be aware of . as I mention early , the Foreign Secretary announce £ 5 . 5 million towards its operation , which include cover support for trauma and other form of public health in Gaza , and we will of course keep this extreme need under review . all of we here want to see an end to the conflict in Gaza and Israel , and that mean get to a last peace as soon as possible . there be grow concern that we be see rise hostility in the north of Israel with Hezbollah , with a deadly increase in attack target against civilian . Hezbollah be , of course , an Iranian - fund terror group that have entrench itself in southern Lebanon . will the Foreign Secretary reassure we that Britain will play a full part in work with Israel and other ally to counter the threat ? further escalation be in nobody ' s interest . I reassure my hon . friend that we understand who sit behind Hezbollah — that be Iran . it have be engage in a lot of activity to drive forward escalation in the region , so I of course want to give he that reassurance . in Gaza , 111 hostage be unaccounted for . some be foreign national , but most be israeli citizen . recently , body be recover from under the city of Khan Yunis , demonstrate that Hamas have complete contempt for humanitarian area . what action be the Foreign Secretary take to secure the release of the hostage ? will he guarantee that Hamas will play no further part in the governance of a state of Palestine ? it be very important for I to meet the hostage family when I be in Israel , and I have speak to hostage family since return back to the country . we be of course give all the assistance we can to the israeli authority to ensure that the hostage get out . I want the hon . Gentleman to understand that we have this as a no . 1 concern . those hostage need to be return . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent 1967 , that the King have signify his Royal Assent to the follow Act : Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) Act 2024 . Post Office Horizon ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to make a statement on financial redress for postmaster and outstanding issue relate to the Post Office Horizon scandal . as hon . member will know , conviction across the UK have be quash through recent legislation , and those affect be now able to apply for financial redress under the Horizon conviction redress scheme . the scheme will be wholly deliver by the Department , not the Post Office . all the form of redress , include those pursue under the group litigation order , will be deliver by the exist scheme . since take office , this Government have continue to work closely with the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive to identify those who have have their conviction overturn . letter have start to be issue to those eligible that will confirm that their conviction have be quash and provide further information on how to access financial redress . but I would encourage those who believe that they be eligible not to wait for a letter . please do come forward now and register for the Horizon conviction redress scheme . we have put guidance on gov . uk to help people know where they stand : whether their conviction have be overturn and , if eligible , how to apply for redress through the registration and application process . victim will be able to choose from two option : first , they can either accept a fix settlement of £ 600 , 000 ; or , secondly , they can choose a full claim assessment if they believe their loss exceed £ 600 , 000 and wish to have their application fully examine by the Government . no matter what route they choose to take , once an applicant ' s eligibility be confirm , they will be pay a preliminary payment of £ 200 , 000 . we be make sure that they can access historical datum from both the Post Office and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to support their decision and the application . we also recognise that , with the good will and support in the world , in a few case , some information may not be retrievable , but I assure hon . member that , even in those case , we will do all we can to ensure that a fair offer be make to sub - postmaster who have suffer this terrible injustice . this House be unite in the last Parliament in its wish to see justice for sub - postmaster . in this Parliament , we intend to deliver on that . I call the shadow Minister . it be disappointing that I have again have to ask an urgent question to get the Government to come to the Dispatch Box . it be also disappointing that neither the Secretary of State nor the postal affair Minister — the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) — have respond to either of the urgent question . this be clearly an important matter that deserve full scrutiny by this House . despite early promise only 12 day ago to give the House a significant update , only a write statement be available . one of the final act of the last Government be to pass legislation that , for the first time in history , overturn hundred of conviction and set in train a process to provide redress to the victim . we make a clear commitment that the victim would be able to apply for redress before the summer recess . that commitment have not be honour , although claimant can now register for redress . to do so , they need a reference number that be available only to individual write to by the Ministry of Justice , which have today confirm that only 10 of the 700 postmaster have receive such a letter . I ask the Minister : when will the other 690 postmaster be write to ? assume claimant apply for the most rapid form of redress — a fix sum award — when will the first £ 600 , 000 payment be make ? the Secretary of State will acknowledge that we have conversation regard Court of Appeal conviction and those refuse leave to appeal that be not quash by the legislation . what step be the Minister take to ensure that those case be give assistance to overturn their conviction ? the last Government also announce that we would top up claimant in the Horizon shortfall scheme to a minimum payment of £ 75 , 000 . how many of the thousand of claimant in this scheme have be write to to that effect ? finally , where be the Secretary of State , or where be the hon . member for Harrow West , who have be appoint post office Minister ? we promise to update Parliament before the summer recess , and we have do that by way of a write ministerial statement . I note that , when the shadow Minister be the Minister , he come and answer on most occasion for the Government . we certainly do not take that as an indication that the Government be take this matter any less seriously than they should , and that be not the case now either . I understand the frustration that the shadow Secretary of State have about the number of letter that have go out , but there have be difficulty in corroborate some of that datum . I understand that , when he make that promise as a Minister , he do so in good faith , but it have turn out that additional physical check have be require . we have have to access court document — sometimes stretch back decade — which have mean that there have be delay . the Ministry of Justice have put more resource into that to ensure that work carry on at pace . as the shadow Secretary of State have note , the website be now up and run and applicant can register on it . I be pleased to report that , as of this morning , 89 people have already do so . we hope that , once verification check have be complete , payment can be process within 10 working day . we understand that the question on the Court of Appeal be discuss at length during the passage of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Act 2024 . the matter deserve further consideration , and I understand that the Minister for postal service have have conversation on what we can do in that respect . I welcome the answer provide by my hon . friend . he will remember that , when the Select Committee report just four or five month ago , we note that 80 % of the budget for redress have not be pay out . we suggest to the now shadow Secretary of State a number of measure to put into the Bill to speed up the process . those amendment be reject . can the Minister now assure we that he have a grip on this and that we will now begin to see cheque in the post much fast ? order . may I just say that Members should speak through the Chair , not to the Minister ? as an established Member of this House , I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman would not want to start on the wrong foot with I . my right hon . friend make an important point . we want payment to be process as quickly as possible . Data be update monthly on the Government website . we can see that , in term of the group litigation order , 210 offer have now be make . under the Horizon shortfall scheme , of 2 , 730 claimant , altogether 2 , 417 offer have be accept . of the 110 conviction on the overturn conviction scheme , initial payment have now be make to 103 of those people . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . it have be say many time across this House , but it bear repeat : this be an appalling miscarriage of justice . the shocking dishonesty of Post Office official find its match only in the bravery of the sub - postmaster who stand up to they . the Liberal Democrats welcome the legislation in the previous Parliament to finally deliver justice by quash their conviction , and we likewise welcome measure to ensure that those affect get the compensation they deserve . however , what we have see with previous compensation and redress scheme for the victim of this scandal be a pattern of delay , complication and inefficiency . neither the Post Office nor the Department for Business and Trade have earn the necessary trust from the sub - postmaster to administer the scheme . with that in mind , the Business and Trade Committee recommend in 2022 that an independent intermediary body be set up . do the Minister agree that it be now time to appoint that independent body to ensure that these scheme get deliver fairly , effectively and without delay ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for their contribution . we be concerned that matter be take too long . we have be work with lawyer who have sign up to a framework for represent claimant , and we be look at way we can speed the process up . there be issue in term of collate enough expert evidence to support the claim , but we be look at how that can be accelerate . on the independent process , we be look at an independent mediation step after the initial decision and offer be make , and ultimately an independent appeal decision will be consider as well . a whole number of individual out there have be convict and have pay huge amount of money — £ 10 , 000 , £ 20 , 000 or £ 30 , 000 — back to the Post Office , but because they be directly employ not by the Post Office , but perhaps by their sub - postmaster , they can not get any redress . they be victim of the Horizon scandal equally as much as anyone else . what advice can the Minister give to people in my constituency of Blyth and Ashington who find themselves in those circumstance ? my hon . friend refer to some specific circumstance that I would welcome further information on . if he can contact the Department , the relevant Minister will look through those circumstance to see whether there be anything we can do , because we do not want anyone to be out of pocket as a result of this scandal . community across the country be impact by the Horizon scandal , and one of those be Wheaton Aston . not only do Wheaton Aston lose a much - love postmaster , but it lose its post office . will the Minister look at the specific case of Wheaton Aston not just in term of that postmaster get compensation , but to take up the issue with the Post Office to ensure that a post office be return to the village ? I will certainly relay that back to the Department , and we will look in some detail at that . it be important that community have a post office that they can access . they be a vital part of our infrastructure in this country and a vital lifeline for many individual , and we want to make sure that every community be serve as much as possible . I take a moment to pay tribute to my predecessor , Marion Fellows , for the work she do on this issue throughout her time in this House . I be delighted to hear from the Minister that there have be conversation with the Scottish Government regard this issue and look for justice and redress for sub - postmaster . how confident be he that no further obstacle will be put in the way of justice and redress in Scotland by the Scottish Government follow those conversation ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to her predecessor , who be tenacious in her pursuit of this matter . we have have a number of conversation with the Scottish Government , and we do not want to see any difference between how this scheme be administer in any part of the country . we be confident that will be the case . this be a national scandal , and it be almost impossible to quantify the loss of trust in the Government and the Post Office that have result . can the Minister set out a little more on what the Government intend to do to ensure that the information and support to make the application to the redress scheme will be there for every single postmaster who have be affect and every single one who have a conviction quash ? the hon . Member ask an important question . disclosure pack be be prepare for every claimant , which will contain what we believe be all the information they need to assess whether they wish to accept the fix sum , or to proceed to a more detailed assessment of the claim . the pack will include detail of their contract and remuneration with the Post Office , detail of whether they be eligible for the Royal Mail share plan and any other information that the Department can obtain that be request . we want to work at pace with individual to ensure they have all the information they need to make an informed decision . the Minister will be aware that I have long campaign on this issue . he might not yet be aware of a letter I send to his Department highlight issue with the current compensation scheme , as well as call attention to issue with the original 555 sub - postmaster , one of whom be my constituent Chris Head . Chris be one of the thousand of people impact by the Horizon scandal , and he have still only be offer 17 % of his verified claim . will the Minister agree to meet I and Chris to discuss these issue ? I be indeed aware of my hon . friend ' s letter and all the work she have do over a number of year in support of her constituent and the wide sub - postmaster community . I be sure that the relevant Minister will agree to meet she and her constituent , and I will make sure that request be pass on to he . as the Member for Ynys M ô n , I represent Lorraine Williams and the formidable Noel Thomas , who spend his 60th birthday in jail for a crime that never take place . it be clear that sub - postmaster continue to be treat appallingly by the UK Government in the wake of the Horizon scandal and make to feel guilty for the cost of compensation to the public purse . can the Minister give confidence to Noel that the new Government will compensate for the real human cost of the suffering cause by this awful scandal ? we do not want sub - postmaster to feel guilty for claim what be rightfully theirs . what this place have decide be their entitlement . we have take measure to ensure that they will not have to foot any legal bill for take advice in respect of their application and we want to ensure that every potential head of loss be cover and adequately compensate for . we want to make the process as easy and swift as possible for those affect . I be pleased to hear from the Minister that the Government will expedite payment to those people who have be extremely badly treat by a state - own entity in this national scandal . will he do anything about those people who arguably know that the Fujitsu software call Horizon be deficient and yet still bring legal case against sub - postmaster , many of whom go to prison ? there must be some redress and , go right the way back , those who be responsible for bring case against innocent people in the knowledge that the software be deficient must suffer some form of penalty . the hon . Member make an important point , which have be raise on a number of previous occasion . we believe that the correct approach be for the inquiry to assess those individual ' particular culpability , and then we will take forward its recommendation . it be important that we see individual take some responsibility and accountability for their action . the Horizon IT scandal be without doubt one of the great miscarriage of justice in our history . while we can not change what have happen , we must establish what go wrong . will the Minister assure the House that he will carefully consider the finding of the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry ? do he agree with the shadow Secretary of State that there should be prosecution of those deem responsible ? we be take a close interest , as the hon . Member would expect , in the evidence come forward in the inquiry . much of it be shocking . the amount of obfuscation and , shall we say , misinformation put out by a number of individual be concern . we think it be right to wait and see what the chair of the inquiry recommend in term of future action , but we be committed to look at that closely and ensure that individual take responsibility for their action . one of my constituent be about to end more than 20 year of service with the Post Office with a comfortable package , but she be persuade to take on a post office for two month . she do so and then get catch up in the Horizon scandal . she have month of trauma , try to prove her innocence and argue with the Post Office , and then she be sack . she lose the package and incur a lot of expense . I speak to the previous Minister about that . my constituent have apply for compensation , but she have be tell that she be not entitle because she do not have a contract , which she say she do . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can protect such people and ensure that they get the compensation they be entitle to , and that we do not have this continual excuse - finding for not pay people who deserve compensation ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that question . where there be evidential difficulty , we be look at other way of ensure that those who should be eligible be entitle to claim . I be happy to have further conversation with she in that respect . I thank the Minister very much for his answer to the question pose . I make representation for the 26 postmaster from Northern Ireland who have be fight for year to clear their name . while it be fantastic that movement have be make to undo the wrong of this scandal — I thank the Minister and the Government very much for that — what step have be take to ensure that compensation be issue to all postmaster across the UK in a timely manner to avoid more delay and miscarriage of justice , include for those 26 from Northern Ireland ? we be work closely with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that all the information require be verify and corroborate so that those individual in Northern Ireland who have be catch up in this scandal receive that letter as soon as possible . build home before I begin my statement , I know that the whole House will join I in send our deep condolence and strength in the hour ahead to those affect by yesterday ' s shocking incident in Southport . as a mother and grandmother , I can not even begin to imagine the depth of pain and suffering of those involve . I would like to echo the word of my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) in thank the police and the emergency service for their swift response . our thought and prayer be with those who have already sadly lose love one and those who be now fight for their life . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I have come to the House to make a statement about the Government ' s plan to get Britain building . deliver economic growth be our no . 1 mission — it be how we will raise living standard for everyone , everywhere , and the only way we can fix our public service — so today I be set out a radical plan not only to get the home that we desperately need , but to drive growth , create job and breathe life back into town and city . we be ambitious , and what I say will not be without controversy , but this be urgent . this Labour Government be not afraid to take the tough choice need to deliver for our country . we be face the most acute housing crisis in live memory , with 150 , 000 child in temporary accommodation , nearly 1 . 3 million household on social housing waiting list and under - 30 less than half as likely to own their own home compare with the 1990 . rent be up 8 . 6 % in the last year . total homelessness be at record level . there be simply not enough home . those on the Conservative Benches know that , but what do they do for 14 year ? as my right hon . friend the Chancellor say yesterday , they duck the difficult decision . they put party before country . they pull the wool over people ' s eye by crow about get 1 million new home build in the last Parliament , but they fail to get anywhere near their target of 300 , 000 home a year . in a bid to appease their anti - housing Back Benchers , they make housing target only advisory . they know that would tank housing supply , but they still do it . as I stand here today , I can reveal the result : the number of new home be now likely to drop below 200 , 000 this year . unforgivable . that legacy make our job all the hard , but it also make it so much more urgent . so today , I will explain how Labour will deliver the change need to turbocharge growth and build more home . I will start with housing target . decision about what to build should reflect local view , but that should be about how , not whether , to deliver new home . while the previous Government water down housing target , cave in to their anti - growth Back Benchers , this Labour Government be take the tough choice , put people and country first . for the first time , we will make local housing target mandatory , require local authority to use the same method to work out how many home to build . but that alone be insufficient to meet our ambition , so we be also change the standard method use to calculate housing need so that it well reflect the urgency of supply for local area . rather than rely on outdated datum , this new method will require local authority to plan for home proportionate to the size of exist community , and it will incorporate an uplift where house price be most out of step with local income . the collective total of these local target will therefore rise from some 300 , 000 a year to just over 370 , 000 a year . some will find that uncomfortable , and other will try to poke hole , so I will tackle four argument head on . the first be that we be demand too much from some place . to that , I say we have a housing crisis and a mandate for real change , and we must all play our part . the second be that some area may appear to get a surprising target . no method be perfect , and the old one produce all sort of odd outcome . crucially , our offer extra stability for local authority . the third argument be that we be lower our ambition for London . I be clear that we be do no such thing . London have a nominal target of almost 100 , 000 home a year , base on an arbitrary uplift , which be absolute nonsense . the London plan have a target of around 52 , 000 , and around 35 , 000 be deliver in London last year . the target we be now set for London of roughly 80 , 000 be still a huge ask , but I know it be one that the mayor be determined to rise to , and I meet he about this last week . fourthly , some will say that a total of 370 , 000 be not enough . to that I say : ambition be critical , but we also need to be realistic . let I move on to the green belt . once we have target for what we need to build , next we need to ensure that we build in the right place . the first port of call must be brownfield land . we be make some change today to support that , but they be only part of the answer , which be why we must create a more strategic system for green - belt release , to make it work for the 21st century . local authority will have to review their green belt if need to meet housing target , but they will also need to prioritise low - quality grey - belt land , for which we be set out a definition today . where land in the green belt be develop , new golden rule will require the provision of 50 % affordable housing , with a focus on social rent , as well as school , GP surgery and transport link that the community need , and improvement to accessible green space . let we not forget that the previous Government ' s haphazard approach to building on the green belt see so many of the wrong home build in the wrong place , without the local service that people need . under Labour , that will change . increase supply be essential to improve affordability , but we must also go far to build genuinely affordable home . part of that must come from developer . the Housing Minister will meet major developer later to ensure that they commit to match our pace of reform . an active , mission - lead Government must also play their role , which be why I be call on local authority , housing association and industry to work with I to deliver a council house revolution . this be not just a nice add - on , but vital to get the 1 . 5 million home build , because we know that scheme with a large amount of affordable housing be likely to be complete fast , and inject confidence and certainty into social housing be how we will get Britain back to building . the previous Government have to downgrade the number of new home that their affordable housing programme would deliver . today , I can reveal that only 110 , 000 to 130 , 000 affordable home be due to be build under that programme , down from their original target of 180 , 000 . in our bad - case scenario , some 70 , 000 family in need of a secure home will lose out . how have they let that happen ? once again , this Government will have to pick up the piece . that be why today I be announce immediate step for the big boost to social and affordable housing in a generation . we will introduce more flexibility in the current affordable home programme , work with Homes England , and will bring forward detail of future Government investment at the spending review . I recognise that council and housing association need support , too , so my right hon . friend the Chancellor will set out plan at the next fiscal event to give they the rent stability that they need to borrow and invest . we must also maintain exist stock , which be why I be announce important change to the right to buy . we have already start review the increase right to buy discount introduce in 2012 , and will consult in the autumn on wide reform . we be immediately increase flexibility for council when use right to buy receipt . in addition , to help council provide home for some of the most vulnerable in society , I can confirm today that the £ 450 million of the local authority housing fund will flow to they to provide 2 , 000 new home . this be what Labour do . these reform be key to realise our wide growth ambition . part of that come from new home themselves , release the untapped potential of our town and city , which for too long have be throttle by insufficient and unaffordable housing . it also flow from make it easy to build the infrastructure on which we rely , so we will make it easy to build laboratory , gigafactorie , data centre and electricity grid connection . we must make it simple and fast to build the clean energy source need to achieve zero - carbon energy generation by 2030 . we have already end the de facto ban on onshore wind , but we be also propose that large onshore wind project be bring back to the nationally significant infrastructure project — NSIP — regime . we will change the threshold for solar development to reflect the development in solar technology , and set a strong expectation that authority identify renewable energy site . to deliver all that , we need every local authority to have a development plan in place . up - to - date local plan be essential to ensure that community have a say in how development happen . area with a local plan be less vulnerable to speculative development through appeal , yet just a third of place have one that be under five year old . this must change . we will fix this by end the constant change and disruption to plan policy , set clear expectation of universal local plan coverage and step in directly when local authority let resident down . local plan ensure local engagement and be critical to make development that meet local people ' s need . while demand more of other , we be also go to demand more of ourselves . two week ago , I say that I will not hesitate to review an application where the potential economic gain warrant it . so today , I can confirm that Ministers and I will mark our homework in public , report against the 13 - week target for turn around ministerial decision . I know that what I have say seem a lot , but this be only the first step . we plan to do so much more . we will introduce a planning and infrastructure Bill that will reform planning committee so that they focus on the right application with the necessary expertise . we will far reform compulsory purchase compensation rule so that what be pay to landowner be fair but not excessive . we will enable local authority to put their planning department on sustainable footing , streamline the delivery process for critical infrastructure and provide any legal underpinning that may be need to ensure that nature recovery and building work hand in hand . we will also take the step need for universal coverage of strategic planning within this Parliament , which we will work with local leader to develop and formalise in legislation . shortly , we will say more about our plan for the next generation of new town . because we know that this crisis can not be fix overnight , in the come month the Government will publish a long - term housing strategy to transform the housing market so that it deliver for work people . these be the right reform for the decade of renewal that the country so desperately need . we will not be deter by those who seek to stand in the way of our country ' s future . opposition Members may say that it can not be do but , once again , I will prove they wrong . this government will build 1 . 5 million high - quality , well - design and sustainable home . we will achieve the big boost to affordable housing for a generation , and we will get Britain build to spur the growth that we need . I commend this statement to the House . rise — I call Kemi Badenoch . if you can , shadow Secretary of State , aim for between seven and eight minute . thank you , Mr Speaker . I echo the comment by the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) regard the appalling incident in Southport . we on the conservative Benches send our deep condolence to the family of all those who be impact . have listen to the right hon . Lady ' s statement , I have many question . I know she will not be able to answer all of they , certainly not in the time we have today , so I hope that , for the question she do not have the answer to now , she will be able to provide write answer within a month and before the end of the summer recess , so we can pick up quickly when we return for her Department ' s oral question . the Labour party have a mandate to deliver what it promise in its manifesto . as a party which have govern for most of the past 100 year , the Conservatives respect that mandate . it be our job , as his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , to scrutinise its plan and ensure that Labour be say what it mean and , more importantly , do what it say . with that right to deliver its manifesto come many responsibility . labour now have the responsibility — unlike in its manifesto — to be crystal clear about what it actually want to do to avoid prolonged uncertainty . it now have a responsibility to understand and address the concern of councillor and local resident . it now have a responsibility to explain the economic and allocate the funding that we all know will be need for this plan . it now have a responsibility not to be contradictory in what it be set out . it must not make promise that any impartial observer know can not be deliver . crucially , it must not break its commitment early , yet we be already see change to what it commit itself to . on 20 June , the Chancellor state that the Government would update the national planning policy framework within 100 day , so why be Labour now brief that it will be before the end of the year ? that be a lot more than 100 day . they have just start and they be already change their target . will the right hon . Lady confirm that the NPPF will be update and in effect by mid - October , the deadline they set for themselves ? they be propose an eight - week consultation over the summer holiday for their update to the NPPF . this be the third set of update we will have in a year . in the previous consultation on the NPPF in 2023 , we have 2 , 600 response . how will they have a meaningful consultation , which be what the legislation require , that respect the input of local planning authority and other ? there will be legal challenge . be they ready for they ? the Government be propose multiple change to planning : the NPPF update ; the new primary legislation that the right hon . Lady just describe ; the change to nutrient neutrality , which they have recently convert to ; and the NSIP — just to name a few . the right hon . Lady say she want to end constant change and disruption to plan policy . that be great , but how will she avoid create year of uncertainty and make it hard for local authority and developer to build new housing as all those change be work through ? as I say to she the last time we sit opposite each other , these thing take time and they be not as straightforward as she be make out . the Government will not be able to deliver their ambition unless they recognise that . what be most interesting in the statement be that the right hon . Lady confirm she be reduce the housing need calculation for London . can she confirm whether that reduction will apply to other urban area ? can she explain why she be reduce the need for city like London to build more housing when they have the infrastructure to support it ? why be she force suburban and rural area to take more housing when there be school in Hackney , such as De Beauvoir primary school and Randal Cremer primary school , that be shut down because they do not have enough pupil ? why be she do that ? the Government talk about the grey belt in the planning framework . it be very interesting ; I have have quick look through it . they define it , but what do the limit contribution to the five green belt purpose actually mean in plan term ? if they be not clear , planning inspector will determine that , and we will yet again have more and more local opposition . it be also interesting that the Government be consider change to restrict the right to buy . the right hon . Lady have tell we very proudly how she be able to buy her own council house — [ interruption . ] at least one , certainly . can she confirm that , follow these change , young people across England will still be able to exercise the same right to buy that she have in 2007 ? there be also a responsibility to address the concern of councillor and local resident . from my own constituency , I know that the reference to Traveller site will cause some concern . the fact that the right hon . Lady have stand up and say that many of the housing allocation will be surprising will make it very difficult for local council and local community to deal with . where be the respect for local decision making ? we be not say that they should not be ambitious , but they will have to take local government in hand when they do that . they say they want to impose exact mandatory housing target on local authority . we have the advisory target so that council could make sure they could do well , not bad , so it be wrong for she to claim that that be we remove mandatory housing target . councillor have repeatedly tell I they be afraid they will be force , under a duty to co - operate , to sacrifice their own green space to take the housing need that urban leader , who be her friend , fail to meet . what will she say to reassure leader in place like Bromsgrove , Wychavon and South Staffordshire ? what penalty will she apply to local leader like Sadiq Khan who fail to meet local housing need requirement ? what happen when the mayor fail to meet even these reduce target that she have set for he ? the right hon . Lady have already let slip that she be ditch the requirement to ensure that beauty be a key part of housing , something I be very proud that the previous Conservative Government put at the heart of our planning reform . local people want beautiful housing . now she be tell we that she will be replace what they want with a requirement to meet 1 . 5 million ugly house instead . why on earth would they take out something that mean so much to local community ? People deserve to live in beautiful home . the fact that the Labour party do not care about that show exactly how it will develop its policy . the Government ' s responsibility to explain the economic and set out how they will fund their proposal be also key . they say they need to ensure that the NPPF have a new growth - base approach , but that be already in the NPPF . the right hon . Lady would know that if she have read it . I bet she hasn ' t . the Chancellor effectively kill off some major NSIP scheme on Monday , such as the arundel bypass . be all the talk of prioritise energy infrastructure project just a way of dress up these cut to other kind of infrastructure ? where be the economic analysis that her Department have undertake on the housing market ? yesterday , we all see the Chancellor come to the Dispatch Box claim not to have understand the pressure on public finance and how it be all so difficult . we warn repeatedly during the election that Labour say one thing and do another . it say that it be not go to raise taxis ; now we can see what it be plan . the Chancellor say nothing about the impact on housing , so now I be ask the right hon . Lady , on behalf of the british people and local authority , what it mean for they . be she go to follow the same playbook , pretend she do not know what it cost to build affordable housing , or to change the planning system and impose more cost for builder , homebuyer and renter ? those be just a few of the question the Government will need to answer . I be sure colleague across the House will have many more . the Government be in danger of choose the bad of all world : not address the basic economic of housebuilde and centralise decision making . when we look at all that , it look like the 1 . 5 million home will be a distant aspiration rather than a meaningful target . let I start by welcome the right hon . Lady to her place . I wish her luck for her leadership campaign , now that she have confirm that she be run . it be her ambition all along to be leader of the Opposition , not mine . I must say that she seem to be take to opposition very naturally . I think she will find herself comfortable for a long , long time on the Opposition Benches . she have a lot to say in her response and I will come to the substance of it in a moment . she have already put in quite a few write question . I look forward to many more from she once she have have a chance to read and digest her brief after the election . there be a couple of thing that I be not quite sure the right hon . Lady understand . first — this be critical — the british people kick the Conservatives out of office in a landslide . secondly , why be that ? let I remind she . the Government in which she serve leave we to clear up the mess . they crash the economy and trash our public service . they bankrupt Britain and they cover it up . they throw the book at the doctor and then they doctor the book . she keep speak about the Tories ' record on housing , but I remind she again that year after year the Tories fail to meet their housing target . she speak about the Mayor of London and the bizarre figure they set for he , but the Conservative Government — talk of promise they can ' t keep — fail to meet their own target in every single year . on the right hon . Lady ' s question about the NPPF consultation , it start today , for eight week . we be ask people to engage . it be an incredibly detailed consultation , because we mean business . it will come as no surprise that the work need to be do after the disaster of the last Tory Government , which rip up the NPPF and make a right mess of it . the right hon . Lady talk about the affordable home grant . the former Tory Secretary of State hand £ 1 . 9 billion of vital fund back to the Treasury . this government will , work with Homes England , make it more flexible to get the home we need . member of the party opposite — you be just read ! you be suppose to be answer the question , not just read out what have be write for you to read . these be the answer to the question . [ interruption . ] no , they be the bit that I have write , actually , in regard to her question . member of the party opposite be now talk to themselves and not the country . the right hon . Lady mention chaos and uncertainty ; I really do not know how Opposition member can say that with a straight face after the chaos and uncertainty that we have see , with countless Housing Secretaries not know what be go on . in every inner - city area — this be in answer to the question — there be increase in the target . I remind member that we inherit the most acute housing crisis in live memory . I say to the right hon . Lady that the green belt definition be in the consultation document , and I suggest that she read it . it also tackle the issue of " beautiful home " , we will build home at scale and they will be beautiful . we will protect the natural environment , and we will make sure that people have the home that they deserve and need . I be astonish by what the right hon . Lady say about council and council leader . the council leader I have speak to be overjoy by the fact that the Tories be kick out . they say to I that they have be leave in a dire situation . I know that Opposition member like to think that that be just labour council , but council across the political spectrum have be leave in a disastrous situation , because the party opposite do not build the home that people need . we have a homelessness crisis in this country . People under the age of 30 can not get home now . it be impossible for people to get on to the housing ladder . that be the failure of the last Conservative Government , and that be what we be go to fix . that be what we be go to get on and do . I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also welcome both the ambition and the detail in my right hon . friend ' s statement , and the commitment make in it . I have two question . first , if the target be not mandatory — although , in the last Parliament , the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee say that they have to be — many council will simply choose to ignore they , but if they be to be mandatory , will my right hon . friend assure I that they will be base on a proper need assessment of each local authority , and will do away with the nonsensical and arbitrary urban uplift to which she refer in the context of London ? secondly , may I ask a question about social housing ? I be proud to be bring up in a council house , as my right hon . friend be . will she work closely with local authority and look particularly at land value capture ? will she ensure that when the planning permission for a site uplift the value of that site , the total increase in value do not go to the landowner alone , but be use to benefit the public purse and reduce the cost of build those home ? I can confirm that we be get rid of the urban uplift . the new method of establish housing target be well than the previous one , which we believe be outdate . the urban uplift figure be pluck from thin air , but we believe that our new method will give council the stability and certainty that will enable they to plan for the home and local service that they need . as for land value capture , there be a little bit about it in the consultation document , but there will be more in the forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill . I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also thank the Deputy Prime Minister for give I advance sight of her statement , and associate myself and my party with her remark about the devastating and senseless attack in Southport . our thought and prayer be with all those affect . for too long under the Conservatives , we have a planning system that put developer greed above community need — a system that do not deliver the home that we need to tackle the crisis , but do destroy swathe of our green belt . however , the statement raise a great many question , so here we go . will local authority that be at an advanced stage of their draft local plan need to start again with the new standard method , or will they be able to continue ? will authority that have recently conduct a green belt assessment need to do it again under the new system , or will the current assessment stand ? there seem to be a conspicuous absence of a specific target for social home — not affordable home , but social home . will the Deputy Prime Minister take up the liberal Democrat target of build 150 , 000 social home every single year ? we welcome the Government ' s proposal to review the compulsory purchase compensation , but will she take up the liberal Democrat plan to put an end to land banking by reform the Land Compensation Act 1961 so that local authority can acquire land at fair value ? we welcome the review of the right to buy , but will the Government allow local authority to use that money to replace lose stock ? the Government indicate that they would be review borrowing rule so that local authority could borrow to invest . will they allow authority to borrow to invest on a scale that will allow they to put an end to homelessness , overcrowding and housing register waiting list ? what power and resource will they give to planning authority so that they can enforce the requirement to put infrastructure first ? will they scrap the cap on developer planning fee ? finally , some local authority in the London metropolitan green - belt area , even when they have account for all their brownfield site and all their grey - belt site , still have to build thousand of home on the green belt , land which be suppose to have be design specifically to stop urban sprawl . will the Government put anything in the national planning policy framework that will give any protection at all to the concept of the green belt ? the answer to the hon . Lady ' s direct question about local plan be that it depend on how far they have get . there will be a transition , as we explain in the consultation document , because we recognise that some area be quite far on . as for where that be up to , it depend very much on what the difference be between what the local plan say and what we have ask . we have explain that in the consultation document as well . we have to be fair to those that have already do the work : when the work have be do , it be just a question of update it and not disregard those that already have local plan . a third of area have up - to - date local plan , so I urge all member to speak to their local authority to ensure that they have their local plan , because that be how we ensure that people feel engaged and part of the process — which be critical — and how we protect green belt and other area by end the speculative development that we have be see . the hon . Lady ask about the number of social home . I talk about the flexibility in the affordable home grant . there be some stuff in the consultation document about the right to buy , which I recognise , and about how council and housing association can borrow to bring up their stock . I also recognise the problem we have face as a result of the homelessness crisis , and I be particularly keen to tackle it . we have talk about compulsory purchase order as well , and we be consult on that because we think that it need to be deal with . we will deal with some of the other issue in the planning infrastructure Bill . planning will be strengthen — we have already announce 300 extra local planner — and we will strengthen section 106 . there will be an accelerator taskforce to deal with stall site . when grey belt land be release , the golden rule that I outline will apply , and we will expect a great deal from developer when they be use that land . we be consult on fee as well . there be a lot in this consultation , which I believe will make a significant difference to engagement with local area and ensure that we meet the housing target that we need and the country desperately deserve . too many family be house in substandard , overcrowded flat create through permit development right , such as former office block conversion . will the Deputy Prime Minister give family in my constituency some hope for the future by confirm Labour ' s commitment to good - quality , affordable family house , include council house , under her proposal ? my hon . friend be right : 14 year of the Tories have leave social and affordable housing in a crisis . to fix our overall problem with the housing crisis , we must have more social housing for rent . the shadow Secretary of State talk about speak to council , but member here , include new member , will know how desperate the situation be from their casework — from what be already arrive in their inboxe and their post — and from what their local leader be say . this be because of the supply problem , and because we need to fix the problem around social and affordable housing . that be why we have our golden rule , and why we be go to strengthen section 106 . we expect developer to do what they say they be go to do , and all our Departments will work to make sure that the infrastructure be there , so that people get the home they need locally and see the infrastructure that improve nature and their local area . New Forest district council have recently have its local plan agree on the basis of local housing need . when will it be require to reopen that assessment on the basis of the right hon . Lady ' s new algorithm , and when will the target become mandatory ? the short answer be when it next update . as I say in my answer to the shadow Secretary of State , council that have an up - to - date local plan will not be make to start again . I commend the right hon . Gentleman ' s local authority for have an up - to - date plan , because that be the good way to have consultation with a local area and provide the housing that local people need . this government will work with local leader and mayor to make sure that we deliver the house that local people want and deal with the crisis they face . I congratulate my right hon . friend on make a superb statement . she know that she will have strong support on the Labour Benches for build the home that we need in Liverpool to tackle homelessness , rise cost and the huge waiting list for social housing , but council will be reluctant to build if they know that house will simply end up in the hand of private landlord who exploit the right to buy . I welcome her review into the high discount impose by the last government . can she assure I that it will be a rapid review ? give the mess that she have inherit , there be no time to waste in clear this up . I thank my hon . friend for her question . again , the short answer be yes , it will be a rapid review . we be already speak about this issue before the election . we want to make sure that people take part in the review , but we be also very clear that the discount that the last Government apply to the right - to - buy formula in 2012 mean that council can not replace the house that be buy under the right - to - buy scheme . we believe that people should have the right to buy , but it have to be balance against the discount give to the public on our social housing stock , so that we can make sure that we replace that stock for those who desperately need it . quite frankly , this announcement will be a disaster for my Hamble Valley constituency . over the last few year , Liberal Democrat - run Eastleigh borough council have build double the number of house require by target and assessment . can the Secretary of State confirm that she will take into account retrospective building number for area that have already build more than their fair share ? why be she place even more pressure on local service in the south - east , where house price be the most expensive , but leave city alone and not increase house number there too ? I say to the hon . Gentleman that the number of house in city will increase . the new method that we will be use be base on the stock and its affordability , so I ask he to look at the consultation . we will be honest : if there be a particular shortage — many area have a particular shortage — we have to build home . we stand on an election manifesto to do that . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman ' s local authority have local plan , but we will engage with it . we do not have the home that we desperately need . I say to the hon . Gentleman that he should engage with his local authority , get the local plan in place , and work with we to build the house that his constituent desperately need . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I particularly welcome the acknowledgment that where there be new development on green - belt land , it be necessary to have the facility that go with they . what step will she take to ensure that local community can hold developer to account for the protection of our habitat and open space when they come forward with plan ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . labour have a " brownfield first " policy , and there be very strict golden rule on the release of grey - belt land . we will support local authority to make sure that they get the good from section 106 notice and that the golden rule apply . the proposal that we have put in the NPPF will strengthen the release of land , which have be do in a haphazard way in the past . we will also see the affordable home that people desperately need in their area , include home for social rent . could the Secretary of State confirm two thing ? first , could she confirm that where local resident have comply with her mandatory target through a neighbourhood plan , rather than a local plan , the neighbourhood plan will reign supreme and will not be trample over by planning inspector subsequently ? secondly , could she confirm that protect landscape — what use to be call an area of outstanding natural beauty , which comprise 80 % of my constituency , but be now call national landscape — will still have significant protection within the planning system ? yes , I can confirm that neighbourhood plan and the protection will remain , which be really important . again , we be say that the release of grey - belt land have to be for the benefit of local natural space . we want to see area where people be within walking distance of such space . many people do not have access to green - belt area , but we will protect they , as we have always do . there be no change to area of natural beauty , park and so on . as the new MP and a former cabinet member for housing for what be arguably Britain ' s most successful new town — Milton Keynes — I welcome today ' s statement , which be exactly what we have need to hear . the struggle and conflict that we have have in try to deliver the housing that people in Milton Keynes need have be enormous and a real waste of resource , to be quite frank . we need to build not only new house , but new community . will the Secretary of State meet I and Milton Keynes city council to discuss how we can help to deliver this essential mission so that everyone have a place to call home ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . I have visit Milton Keynes a number of time , and it be a fantastic example of a labour new town . she have be quick to get a meeting arrange with the Housing Minister , and I look forward to hear more about how we can learn from Milton Keynes and have the next generation of new town come forward . I welcome the consultation on the national planning policy framework . one of the document that have be circulate to colleague today be the NPPF with track change . bury on page 55 be a footnote that say the follow sentence be propose for deletion : " the availability of agricultural land use for food production should be consider … when decide what site be most appropriate for development . " that be in the exist nppf , but the Government be propose to take it out . the UK be only 60 % self - sufficient in food — down from the mid - 1980 , when we be 78 % self - sufficient . be the Government take enough account of self - sufficiency in food ? yes , and we believe that it be already consider in the NPPF . there be already guidance on agricultural land , particularly high - grade agricultural land , so we believe that the protection on food be already there . I congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister on her statement . I be slightly disappointed with some of the comment from those on the conservative Benches , but I hope my right hon . friend will reject they , just as the british people reject they on 4 July . like the Deputy Prime Minister and most people in England who have a mayor , I be fortunate enough to live under a labour mayor . will the Deputy Prime Minister work with I , labour mayor — include her and mine — councillor and member of this place to ensure that we get the right kind of development in the right place ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . what we be try to achieve today , and with the legislation that be announce in the King ' s Speech , be about how we strengthen local consultation . I have already say that only a third of local authority have up - to - date local plan , so this be a wake - up call for they . as part of local planning and have local plan in place , there be an obligation to consult , and to consult again on the final plan . many people be frustrate by housing that go up , but that be because of speculative development and because there have be no engagement . we have already meet mayor and council leader , and what we be propose today be a push that have come not just from local leader and mayor but from voter . I believe that that be why we win as large a majority as we do at the general election : people want to see that change . we know that that engagement have to continue and that we have to work with local leader and mayor to make this plan a reality , and we be go to work with they to make sure that we get those home , that infrastructure and the next generation of social and affordable housing that the people of this country need . I call Mark Francois . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and good luck in your new role . it be possible to have successful development , but from experience it have to be something do with people and not to people . this policy be the latter . these pernicious top - down target have the practical effect at ground level of set one town against another , one village against another and one local community against another ; and give the Chancellor ' s statement on public spending yesterday , who will pay for the ten of billion of pound - worth of infrastructure that would be require to make all this work ? all experience show that , on development and house building , the man or woman in Whitehall really do not know well . why then , be the Secretary of State go back to the old , fail way of do it , which will not work ? I be shocked to have to tell the right hon . member that the NPPF be an nppf before we come into government . national target have always be there ; this be not something that I have dream up . the important thing be that our new method be clearly base upon the housing stock , the affordability and the need in an area . that need have create a housing crisis in this country , and that be why the electorate give the Labour Government such a mandate , because we say that we be go to fix the housing crisis that we have inherit . again , this be about local plan . I implore the right hon . member to get with his local authority , to get a local plan , to engage with local people and to listen to those who be wait desperately — probably thousand in his constituency — for a home that they know will never come . my local authority agree its local plan during the general election campaign , and it be the first authority in the country to commit section 106 fund to our local hospital . as its deputy leader , I be very proud to lead on that . I see section 106 funding as the most effective method of mitigate the impact of development and bring in much - need funding for infrastructure . how do the Deputy Prime Minister envision section 106 funding being reform to make it a far more effective method of bring in infrastructure spending ? I congratulate my hon . friend , not just on get to this place but on the work she do previously . I also congratulate her local authority on the work it have do on have a local plan and on make sure that it get what it need out of the section 106 provision . she be absolutely right to say that that be important , because section 106 play a very important role in meet health need — whether it be GP service , hospital , school or whatever the infrastructure — and it need to be strengthen . we talk about that in this House , and we talk about the golden rule that we will apply if grey belt be release , but our Department will be work to ensure that local authority be give the resource they need and the expertise from here , so that they can get the good out of section 106 notice . thousand of new home be plan in King ' s Lynn in my constituency , but that development require transport and other infrastructure , so will the Secretary of State work with the Transport Secretary and the Chancellor to unlock the funding for the A10 - West Winch housing access road so that that development can proceed ? again , there be a challenge that we have inherit . I hope that the hon . member ' s area have a local plan for what be require and can therefore push for that infrastructure as part of its section 106 . I will happily engage , through the Minister , on that particular issue , but I be wonder whether the hon . Member be in the Chamber yesterday and realise what a mess his government leave we in . I call Sarah Owen . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I welcome you to your new place . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for the speed with which she and her fantastic team be tackle the housing crisis . it be welcome news in Luton North , where my surgery have be consistently full of people struggle in overcrowded housing and face skyrocket rent for substandard condition . we also have daily case of people be subject to eviction notice through no fault of their own . do she agree that the Government ' s new plan to build genuinely affordable housing , and for this council house revolution to start , can not come soon enough for town such as mine ? my hon . friend articulate what many member across the House , even Opposition Members , will recognise as challenge that we face . this issue have be duck for 14 year by the Conservatives , and in fact it go backwards because of the change they make to the NPPF last year . that be why we make absolutely no bone about the fact that we mean to deliver . that be why this consultation be so important and why we have put it out there now . I say to hon . member that we intend to move at pace . there be people in temporary accommodation and 150 , 000 child who have nowhere to call their home . I think about that every single night , and there be not a day that we can afford to waste in deal with that situation for they . I promise those people in my hon . friend ' s constituency and in everybody else ' s that I will do everything I can to make sure that they have a home . I welcome the news of a council house revolution , and we all know that the Deputy Prime Minister be a little bit of an expert when it come to council housing , but can she confirm that priority will be give to british family , veteran and pensioner ? we have confirm that people with a local connection will get priority over those home . the hon . Gentleman try to make a quip about the fact that I grow up in a council house , but although people use to talk about my childhood as if I grow up in poverty , there be many kid today who would think they have win the lottery if they get a council house . those child today can not have that , so we will build the home , we will prioritise so that people locally can get they and we will make sure that first - time buyer get first dibs . we be put in place a number of measure to make sure that the home that be build be there for the people who need they . resident in Hethersett , Mulbarton and Loddon have sadly have their finger burn by the old planning policy that be in place under the previous Government . can my right hon . friend give I assurance that section 106 will be strengthen to ensure that public infrastructure will be in place so that our new housing be accessible for everyone and give they the resource they need to live a very happy life ? part of this consultation look at how we can strengthen section 106 , and we want to do that in conjunction with local authority . as I mention in my statement , we be also bring forward , at a later date through this Parliament , measure on strategic planning and the planning and infrastructure Bill . this be the start of the process , but we know there be a lot more to do . I look forward to my hon . friend ' s engagement with that . I be no nimby , but what we be see today be a lurch back to top - down mandatory target that will ride roughshod through local community such as those that I represent across Aldridge - Brownhills , and through local decision making . I do agree with the Deputy Prime Minister , though , when she say that the first port of call must be brownfield land , so will she confirm that she will give full financing to brownfield land remediation and reclamation ? we think we can use brownfield funding well , but this be not about ride roughshod over local decision and what local people want ; have mandatory housing target and plan mean that people will be able to decide . what we be say , and what we say at the general election , be that we will build 1 . 5 million home ; we say that clearly , and we have a mandate to do it . we think that the new method for calculate housing target work well ; we think it will deliver for people , and that include the affordability test . therefore , we will deliver the house that the right hon . Lady ' s constituency need , and I would encourage she to engage in the process with her local authority . rise — Order . I be plan to end the statement at around 20 minute past 2 , so could you please help each other by keep question short ? this have to be the most important statement I have hear since be in the House . York have really suffer from the proliferation of luxury accommodation , second home and short - term holiday let , so I very much welcome this statement . where developer have plan in the system , what step can be take to ensure that we pivot to hit the target for the affordable and social housing that we desperately need right now ? I absolutely agree that we desperately need affordable home . it depend on where my hon . friend ' s local authority be in the process , but we will be set out the target , which be likely to be increase for her area , so that the local authority can engage in the process . the golden rule will allow more affordability where there be restrictive release of grey belt . we will ensure that we provide support on affordability and that there be no gaming of the system , so that we get the good we can out of section 106 . I strongly endorse the sentiment and purpose of the Secretary of State ' s policy statement . she will be aware that , as other have say , the planning system be fuel by greed , rather than need . Cornwall be not nimby — it be one of the fast - grow place in the United Kingdom and have almost treble its housing stock in the last 60 year — yet local people ' s housing problem have get bad , so my question to the Secretary of State be this . house building target be a means to an end , so would it not be far well in place such as Cornwall if those target be set to address the need , rather than simply allow developer to fill their boot ? that be what the new formula do . we be try to assess the need in area , take particular account of their current stock , but also of affordability ; I suspect that Cornwall have a particular challenge with that as well . as part of that process , we hope to strengthen the plan on section 106 , and the new home accelerator task force will help to get site move forward where they already have planning permission . by work across Whitehall , we will also deliver the infrastructure that people want , because that be the other big issue that keep come back . where we have speculative site or the release of green belt , or where there be a large amount of housing in an area , the infrastructure be critical . that be the issue we need to overcome , and we be clear on that as a Government . in my constituency , we be at the sharp end of the housing crisis , and we desperately need more affordable home and more council home , so I really welcome today ' s statement . the conservative party may behave like this be a zero - sum game between build more desperately need home and protect the environment , but Labour Members know that that be not the case . what approach will the new Government take to ensure that we have sustainable development , so that we protect our environment , ensure that we have the necessary infrastructure , include sewage pipe , and prevent flooding , while build the home that my constituent so desperately need ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . she be absolutely right , and her question build on one that I answer previously . we have to protect our green belt , and the proposal we be put forward do that . they also mean that we will have the right type of home and the infrastructure . as part of this process , there will be nature consideration and rule around that . there will also be the infrastructure that people need , as well as access to the countryside and healthy living . my hon . friend can look at a number of part of the consultation that refer to how we be deliver well , green area for people . hopefully , her constituent will be able to get behind that . it be good to see you in that Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be not sure whether the Secretary of State have discuss her proposal with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs or the National Farmers Union , but the answer she give on food production be risible . what she have announce today be effectively a recipe for dispose of the land that will be need to feed our child and grandchild . just before she go ahead with that , will she tell the House how many planning consent that have be grant be sit there unbuilt - out ? should we not use those first ? I say to the right hon . gentleman with absolute respect that he should please read the consultation . we think that we do support our agriculture , which account for just over 10 % of land — the good and most versatile land . I talk before about protect the good - value land , and we will do that . the land we be talk about — grey belt , which we define in the NPPF consultation — be not agricultural land ; it be disuse garage and thing of that nature and not , as the right hon . Gentleman want people to believe , the land we need for food . I welcome the twin ambition the Secretary of State have set out today : to get Britain build in order to provide the home we need , and to make sure that we have the infrastructure require to support they , such as school and GP surgery . those ambition be of equal importance , and we can not have one without the other . on social and affordable housing , will she confirm that the aim of her package be to go net - positive , so that the number of social rent home rise rather than fall , and to achieve that in the first year of this Parliament ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . it will be a challenge , but we be desperate to try to meet that challenge as quickly as we can . that be why we be move at pace with the consultation exercise we have put forward today , which we will do as quickly as we can , so that we can have the affordable and social housing , the green space and the infrastructure that people desperately need . I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I welcome the Secretary of State to her new role . I appreciate that she will not have time today to wax lyrical about her vision of aesthetic or to expand at length on the relationship between truth and beauty . nevertheless , give the welcome reference in her announcement to proportionality and to the link between the exist build environment and the scale of development , will she also take into account the character and style of development ? she may know that I have serve on the Building Better , build Beautiful Commission and in the Office for Place . will she agree to meet the Office for Place to discuss beauty ? she will know that the wealthy can always live in beautiful place and in beautiful home , but people from council house — from where she and I originate — deserve their chance to know , to sense and to see beauty . I absolutely agree with everything the right hon . Gentleman say . the Minister of State , Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , will shortly meet all the stakeholder , and I think he have a meeting in the come day with those the right hon . Gentleman just mention . I would love to work with he to make sure that we build the house that people deserve . whether it be social , affordable or any other housing , it should be beautiful and should have character and style , and we be determined to make that happen . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for the focus she have rightly put on deliver genuinely affordable home , which will provide much need housing security to many of my constituent . recognise some of the immediate homelessness challenge feel by local authority , will she detail how the plan she have announce today will relieve pressure that lead to homelessness , and on temporary accommodation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to talk about homelessness and the pressure that local authority face . this issue feel particularly personal because the number of story that I have hear , not just when I be the shadow Minister but in the role that I be fortunate enough and humble to have now , show that we can not continue with the homelessness crisis . behind every single one of the figure be a human being . like poverty , housing have a significant impact on people ' s life and opportunity . that be why , in my role as Deputy Prime Minister , I will bring leader together at a local , regional and parliamentary level to ensure that we tackle homelessness . we need to do something about the figure . we have inherit a really poor state of affair , but I be determined to ensure that we do something about that . many resident in my constituency of Waveney Valley find themselves price out of live in their community , as be the case in so much of the country , because the home that be be build be not affordable for local people . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s statement on affordable housing , but how many of the 1 . 5 million home that she have pledge to build do she expect to be affordable ? in particular , how many do she expect to be council home ? what action will be take to address the fact that we have a million empty home in this country ? it be difficult to set out the detail at a local level because those type of development be subject to section 106 agreement . that be why local plan be really important , and we support that process . I refer the hon . gentleman to the consultation document on the release of grey belt , which talk about a minimum of 50 % of housing be affordable . again , that figure will depend on local need . we have to try to get the balance right . if local area say , " we need x " , but I say , " well , you be go to have y , " then that be a challenge . we have say that 50 % of housing build on the grey belt must be affordable . local area can then use that figure and say that they want a particular amount of home for social rent . the methodology and the affordability test we be use make thing much well , because they give a figure that reflect the reality for people in an area . I call Alistair Strathern . I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Deputy Prime Minister will be all too aware of the extent to which the planning system be fail community like mine . it be not build the affordable home that people be cry out for , not deliver the infrastructure my grow community need , and not even protect some of the nature - rich part of our countryside . opposition Members might not like to hear this , but under the last government , green - belt approval , often haphazard , increase tenfold , while brownfield approval halve . will the Deputy Prime Minister reassure my constituent that her golden rule will ensure that brownfield and greyfield site be truly prioritise , and that infrastructure and affordability will be prioritise too , so that we finally deliver growth that work for community like mine ? my hon . friend be right to mention the haphazard way in which the green belt have be build upon under the last government , although some of the response that I have have from Opposition Members give the impression that that never happen . I be clear that brownfield should always be the first port of call , which be why we have be make brownfield development easy under the NPPF . we will also take firm action to limit the scope to game the system , and consult on how to stop developer who have pay over the odd for land use that as an excuse for negotiate down their section 106 contribution . a number of measure , include our golden rule , will ensure that we push towards brownfield . the release of grey belt have to be within our golden rule . yesterday , the Secretary of State make the decision to approve the appeal by Envar Composting in relation to a propose medical waste incinerator on the edge of St Ives , despite the initial application be reject by conservative and labour member of Cambridgeshire county council . resident in St Ives , as well as the impact rural village of Somersham , Bluntisham , Colne , Pidley , Woodhurst , Old Hurst and Needingworth , be hugely concerned that their opposition and concern have not be hear by the Secretary of State . give that NHS England ' s 2023 clinical waste strategy state that there be a need to " reduce the use of incineration " , and detail a strategic priority that " require in - house waste processing capability " to be develop , why have the Secretary of State approve a medical waste incinerator against local wish ? will she meet local resident to hear their concern ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution . I have not personally deal with that specific case , but when we make such decision , we weigh up the advice and planning expertise that we have , and decision will be make base on the evidence we have . it be an objective way of make a decision . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s plan to put building home at the heart of our mission to raise living standard , and to ensure that what we build reflect local view . will she give an update on plan to give council great power to tackle the scourge of second home , which put a drag on our community and economy , particularly in Cornwall , so that we can unlock supply through that channel ? I say in my statement , this be the first step but we know there be so much more that we need to do . we have a significant amount of legislation come forward , about which the housing Minister will be able to update the House . the NPPF be about make sure that we get the housing target in place , but I understand the point my hon . friend make . we need to address many more issue that we face in housing , which be why a significant number of measure be announce in the King ' s Speech . an additional 3 , 000 home be currently be build in Maldon and Heybridge in my constituency , and Liberal Democrat - control Chelmsford city council want to build another 3 , 000 at Hammonds Farm in my constituency , yet the local road and health and education service be all under intolerable pressure , so what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that the necessary infrastructure be put in place before the development take place ? the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government be in power for 14 year and could have resolve this issue . one reason why we be consult on the revised NPPF be because we recognise that infrastructure be critical , as I have say to many hon . member today . People often reject housing proposal because they do not see infrastructure . that be why we have the golden rule , why I have ask all the Departments to look at what we can do to ensure that infrastructure be there , and why we will support the strengthening of section 106 to ensure that developer do not try to squeeze out of what they promise as part of the development . as my right hon . friend have say , this have get to be about build community , not just about build home . on too many occasion , resident in my constituency have be leave for too long on incomplete and unadopted estate . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that both the social and physical infrastructure must be deliver at the early opportunity in development , and that developer must be hold to account for their delivery ? I absolutely agree . that go back to the point that far too often people object to development because they do not see the infrastructure , and people see that in some case developer try to wriggle out of their obligation . as I set out in the consultation document we be put forward today , we believe this will strengthen the hand of local authority and we will be able to ensure that we get the infrastructure we desperately need alongside the house . the Deputy Prime Minister have outline the dire need for house building across this great United Kingdom and set out a system to try to achieve that . however , there be the important issue of people try to get mortgage . in the mainland , those who earn £ 75 , 000 a year be have difficulty get a mortgage , but back home in Northern Ireland , those who be earn much less — say , £ 40 , 000 to £ 45 , 000 — have no chance of get a mortgage . what can be do to help people to get mortgage and thereby enable they to buy a home and move forward ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we have to fix the situation not just on the affordability of house , and in the general election campaign we talk about our proposal for a mortgage guarantee scheme . the new deal for work people , which be come forward with legislation in October time , will ensure that we make work pay . the Chancellor announce a pay rise for public sector worker , and we recently write to the Low Pay Commission to expand its remit so that we will make sure that over a million people get a pay rise , because job that pay will also mean people can then afford to have their own home . Lebanon with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on the situation in Lebanon . on 27 July , Hezbollah launch a series of rocket into northern Israel and the occupy Golan Heights . tragically , in Majdal Shams , one strike kill at least 12 civilian — young people , one just 10 - year - old , who be play football . I extend my deep sympathy to their family and to the jewish community as they grieve for their love one . the Government be unequivocal in condemn this horrific attack and call on Hezbollah to cease its rocket strike . this atrocity be a consequence of indiscriminate firing and pay no heed at all to civilian life . this attack be part of an intensifying pattern of fight around the israeli - lebanese border . for month now , we have be teeter on the brink . the risk of further escalation and regional destabilisation be now more acute than ever . at the end of my first week in office I speak to lebanese Prime Minister Mikati , and yesterday I call he again to express my concern at this late incident . I have also visit Israel and discuss the situation with Prime Minister Netanyahu and Foreign Minister Katz . I shall visit Lebanon as soon as the security circumstance allow . we support Israel ' s right to defend itself in line with international humanitarian law . as I have say before , it be in a tough neighbourhood , threaten by those who want to see its annihilation . More than 40 people , include 24 civilian , have now be kill by Hezbollah strike in northern Israel and the Golan Heights , and ten of thousand of Israelis have be displace from the area , while in Lebanon more than 100 civilian have die and almost 100 , 000 be displace . a widening of the conflict be in nobody ' s interest . indeed , the consequence could be catastrophic . that be why we continue to press for a diplomatic solution base on UN Security Council resolution 1701 , which call for a long - term solution base on the disarmament of all armed group in Lebanon , no foreign force in Lebanon without its Government ' s consent , and no armed force , other than the UN and the lebanese Government troop , deploy south of the Litani river , near the border with Israel . it be why , even in the face of serious provocation , our counsel be restraint . we welcome the lebanese Government ' s statement condemn violence against civilian and urge the cessation of all violence . we continue to support the lebanese armed force , and the UK have provide more training and equipment to four of Lebanon ' s land border regiment . we be work intensively with the United Nations and our partner , include the United States and France , to encourage de - escalation . with our partner we will do all we can to prevent the outbreak of full - scale conflict , but the risk be rise . I therefore want to underline the Government ' s advice to british national . we advise against all travel to the north of Israel and the north of the Golan Heights , and against all travel to Lebanon . there be frequent artillery exchange and airstrike . tension be high and the situation could deteriorate rapidly . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister chair a Cobra meeting this morning , and I be work with Foreign Office consular team to make sure that we be prepared for all scenario . however , if the conflict escalate , the Government can not guarantee that we will be able to evacuate everybody immediately . People may be force to shelter in place . history teach we that in a crisis such as this one , it be far safe to leave while commercial flight be still run , rather than run the risk of become trap in a war zone . my message to british national in Lebanon be quite simple : leave . the tension on the israeli - lebanese border be one aspect of a wide crisis in the middle east . across the region we see evidence of malign iranian activity — in their support for Hezbollah , Hamas , Houthis and other group whose action destabilise the region , and who show scant regard for the death and destruction that this cause . this Government be commit to work alongside our partner to counter iranian threat . meanwhile , in Gaza , fighting continue . the scene at the Khadija school — civilian kill and shocking image of injured child — underline the desperate condition endure by civilian . the report of the humanitarian situation remain sobering , with the threat of disease and famine loom ever large . this Government continue to do all they can to provide relief to palestinian civilian . I recently announce new funding for field hospital run by UK - Med , which have treat more than 60 , 000 gazan since the conflict begin . we have restore funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , provide £ 21 million in new fund to the agency that be able to deliver aid at the scale need . what be urgently need be an immediate ceasefire . all the hostage must be free . the fighting must end , and much , much more aid must get into Gaza . a ceasefire would not only alleviate the suffering in Gaza and secure the hostage ' release but reduce tension across the region , help to prevent an escalatory cycle in Lebanon , and it would offer hope of renew peace process between Israel and Palestinians . as I say in my first appearance at this Dispatch Box as Foreign Secretary , we be committed to play a full diplomatic role in effort to secure a just and last peace . our overarching goal be clear : a viable sovereign palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel . we do not want to see more civilian kill or more innocent life cut short , but the risk be clear . we be urge the de - escalation of the current crisis while ensure that we be prepared if diplomatic effort do not succeed , with a clear call today for all british national in Lebanon to leave immediately . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . this be indeed a matter of profound concern and gravity for we all . the tragic and senseless attack in the Golan Heights over the weekend must be meet with full , unequivocal condemnation . child and young people innocently play football , with bright future and the rich tapestry of life ahead of they , have their life cruelly snatch away . my thought , and I be sure the thought of the whole House , be with their parent , sibling and friend , and all those affect by this monstrous act . the risk of further escalation across the blue line be real and the Government be right to take it seriously . we do not want to see a widening of this painful conflict , and the opening of a new front would be in nobody ' s interest . if we be to avoid it , all involve need to show restraint . we should be crystal clear that that include Hezbollah . let nobody forget that this be a proscribe terrorist organisation that have no regard for human life , human dignity or human right . nobody should be in any doubt about Hezbollah ' s intention towards the world ' s only jewish state . and Hezbollah support Hamas , another proscribe terrorist organisation , which have also inflict appalling suffering , with the bad atrocity commit against jewish people since the Holocaust and the second world war . Hezbollah must cease its attack right now . that message must be aim at Tehran , too . the Government must use the communication channel that we have with Iran to be extremely firm with the regime . Iran must use its influence to rein in its proxy and stop destabilise the middle east . beyond stern word , we must use all the tool at our disposal , include tough sanction , to disrupt malign behaviour by Iran and its proxy such as Hezbollah , and to crack down on finance source and flow of weapon . sanction must also demonstrate that terror group leader can not escape the consequence of their action . the Government must rally the international community to collectively reaffirm its commitment to the implementation of UN Security Council resolution 1701 , which be critical for a long - term peace . if I may press the Foreign Secretary on three specific point , what step be he take to amplify the advice that he have already and rightly give so clearly that british national in Lebanon should leave now ? what be he do in - country to get the message across and to make information on how to leave quickly easily accessible ? what step be he take to look after the interest of the Foreign Office staff and other dependant in Lebanon ? secondly , do he have an estimate of how many brit be actually in Lebanon ? thirdly , what discussion have he have with key partner in the region who , like we , wish to see a destabilising escalation avert ? I conclude with a broad point . we be clearly at a critical point in this conflict . we could see Hamas accept the deal on the table , which would see a pause in the fighting , the return of the hostage , a flood of aid and the space create to bring about the condition for a sustainable peace , or we could see the suffering in Gaza grind on and a dangerous escalation along the blue line . this be the time to be put maximum pressure on Hamas , as we have be discuss today , and on Hezbollah . this be also the time to remain in close dialogue with Israel and maintain our position as a trusted partner . that be critical whether for get more aid into Gaza , or for urge restraint by Israel . the Foreign Secretary will have hear concern in recent day about what many of we perceive as a shift in the Government ' s approach to our close ally Israel , include in relation to the International Criminal Court . he give I an answer on that point at oral question early today . we should make it clear that , while recognition of Palestine be important and do not need to come at the end of the process , it equally can not come at the start of the process , where it could be see as a reward for violence and for terror . I hope that the Government will not only continue to work to avoid an escalation along the blue line , but maintain that close relationship with Israel . the trust and friendship that exist between the UK and Israel matter , because they allow we candidly to discuss all aspect of the current conflict with israeli counterpart at the very high level , in addition to use our influence as a member of the United Nations Security Council . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the tone and cross - party nature of his remark . he know well than many in this House how serious it be to be deal with any crisis that might escalate at this time . he be absolutely right to draw out the relationship between Hezbollah , Hamas and the Houthis and Iran . of course we keep our sanction regime under review , but he be right to press the case about the axis and he be absolutely right that of course we keep open all the channel that we have with Iran . he will be pleased to know I speak to Prime Minister Mikati and we talk about the blue line . he will also recall that I be in Lebanon a few month before the election be call and I indicate at oral question early that it be my hope to get to the region once more , while take all the advice that he would expect I to take . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that it have of course be important to communicate our advice to leave Lebanon , and for people who be in the UK at this time not to travel to Lebanon , and to convey that advice across all channel . that have be take place since last night and it will be take place over the come day to communicate that very loudly in - country as well . he will also note we have begin the registration scheme that allow UK national to register their presence in Lebanon so that we know where they be . of course we keep the safety of our consular staff under close review , particularly with the danger that exist with missile be fire in this way on both side . our estimation be that about 16 , 000 UK national be in the region , but ask people to register enable we to know who be there . we urge people to leave on the many commercial flight that be currently available from Lebanon and to make their way to Europe and back home . of course we be work with our international partner ; the right hon . Gentleman will know that the US , Germany and Canada be all up their travel advice along the line that we first begin yesterday . I welcome the statement by the Foreign Secretary . he refer to counter the iranian threat ; in his short time in office , have he make any assessment yet about how successful they have be ? we be clear - eyed about the fact that Iran continue to destabilise the middle east through its military , financial and political support for its proxy and partner , include iranian - align militia group in Iraq and Syria , Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen . we continue to work with international partner to encourage de - escalation and long - term peace and security in the middle east . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and his advice to british national , which seem like a very wise precaution and could prevent our have to evacuate british citizen in the future . I join he in condemn the Hezbollah strike in the Golan Heights , which kill 12 Druze child . our thought go out to their family . however , now we find the region on the precipice that many of we have fear since 7 October last year : the escalation of this dire conflict to another front , with Israel ' s Minister Smotrich warning of an all - out war with Hezbollah . the UN special co - ordinator for the middle east peace process have urge " maximum restraint " and the immediate cessation of rocket fire across the blue line . we welcome that call and urge the UK Government to work closely with regional power to do whatever we can to de - escalate the situation . my question to the Foreign Secretary be this : have he , and have his colleague , engage with the UN special co - ordinator ? if not , will they do so , give the special co - ordinator ' s vital role in moment such as this ? the liberal Democrats welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s call for an immediate bilateral ceasefire to end the humanitarian devastation in Gaza , to get the hostage home and to open the door to a two - state solution . this be a deeply insecure region and that insecurity be feel by everybody who live there : Israelis , Palestinians and other . a two - state solution will deliver the dignity and security they need , and I be reassure to hear that he will be make those call on regional power when he next visit the region . I be very grateful to the Lib Dem spokesman for the tone and manner of his remark . I can reassure he that I have be in touch with the UN special envoy , Amos Hochstein . I have speak to he several time and I intend to speak to he again over the come day . as I have indicate , it be my hope to get to the region if the security situation allow . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that an immediate ceasefire be what we need . we need those hostage out and we need the aid in . if we get that immediate ceasefire , if the Biden plan be adopt , it will allow de - escalation across the region . that be why we need to see that plan adopt by both side as soon as possible . I call David Pinto - Duschinsky . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I take this opportunity to welcome you to the Chair ? I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement on Hezbollah ' s horrific attack and his condemnation of the awful strike in Majdal Shams . what step will he take to put maximum pressure on Hezbollah to cease its rocket attack for good ? we have a long - stand no - contact policy with Hezbollah . however , we of course continue to speak to the Government in Lebanon , as fragile as that Government be . we condemn Hezbollah ' s destabilising activity . we do , obviously , co - ordinate very closely with regional partner , some of whom be in contact with Hezbollah . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place ; he be not technically a right hon . friend , but he have be a personal friend of mine since my original attempt to stop he be elect in Tottenham many year ago . I thank he for his statement today . the right hon . Gentleman know well that there be many moderate and measured voice in Lebanon and in the lebanese diaspora . I be glad that he have emphasise the close relationship between our Government and armed force and the lebanese army . will he agree to meet a small group of people associate with the all - party parliamentary group for Lebanon , which I have chair ? the all - party group be re - form as we speak , but a group of parliamentarian have be part of that one , and it would be very useful for we to meet the right hon . Gentleman to discuss what more can be do across the House to support the effort that he have describe today . over my 24 year in this place , the strange of friendship have be strike up across party line . of course I will meet the right hon . Gentleman and the group , because this be a very serious cross - party issue and I know that all member of this House want to see de - escalation . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . we must deplore the loss of civilian life , particularly of child , on either side of the divide , so I welcome his call for de - escalation in Lebanon and repeat call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . look ahead to long - term peace and to a two - state solution , how do my right hon . friend deal with the comment of the israeli Prime Minister , who say the other day that Samaria and Judea be an integral part of Israel and that they be not occupy the west bank ? in that situation , have the Government not get to get on with recognise a palestinian state , rather than wait for the Israelis to come round to the view that it be acceptable to they ? I be grateful to my very good friend , who have be champion these issue for many , many year . this last period have , of course , be of huge concern to he and his constituent . I be horrify by the degree of expansion that I see in the west bank a few week ago : there have be more in the past year than we have see in 20 year . the violence be unacceptable , and the tone , rhetoric and statement from some member of the Government be very alarming indeed . as my hon . friend would expect , I press these issue with both the israeli Prime Minister and the israeli President , and we keep the situation in the west bank under close review . I thank the Secretary of State for prior sight of his statement and share his deep concern about where the region currently find itself . he will not need remind that , in the immediate aftermath of the Hamas atrocity on 7 October , the international community allow Israel to blur the vital line between legitimate self - defence and a lust for revenge . as a result , Israel have act with impunity , 40 , 000 civilian be dead and Gaza have be reduce to rubble . what discussion have he have with Israel and our international partner to ensure that — heaven forbid — should this conflict escalate far , all those involve know , understand and accept that revenge and legitimate self - defence be not the same thing under international law , so that we avoid have another 40 , 000 civilian casualty in nine month ' time ? it be very important for I to visit the occupy territory and Israel within the first week in office . we say this in opposition and we say it again in government : of course , give the hostage who be still in Gaza , Israel have a right to defend itself , but it be a qualified right — it have always be , within international humanitarian law . the scale of civilian loss of life — the child and the woman who have lose their life , the aid worker who have lose their life — against a backdrop in which journalist be not allow into the country have be a matter of deep concern and worry across the international community , so of course I have raise these issue . it be also important to meet hostage family and to be absolutely clear that we want to see those hostage return . I call Kim Johnson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your appointment . I be sure my right hon . Friend agree that the escalation of violence can be reduce if we look at end the suffering in Gaza . at a briefing that I attend today with Oxfam and Medical Aid for Palestinians , they talk about how Israel be use water as a weapon of war . People have 4 . 7 litre of water per day to wash , clean and cook . that be less than a toilet flush . I welcome the position that we have take — we have move greatly — but do my right hon . friend agree that we need to go much far and much fast ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of water . we have waterborne disease — we now have polio setting in — and of course we have have the famine . the lack of desalination be a very serious issue . that be why it be important to take the decision , in our first day in office , to restore aid to UNRWA , to increase the fund available to UK - Med and to do more to open up field medical site across Gaza . we will continue to press the aid issue in Gaza . I think it be also important that the rafah crossing be open , which would alleviate a lot of suffering . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his call for de - escalation and a ceasefire , which of course should include the release of all hostage , to ensure that we get more humanitarian aid in and a two - state solution , but we also need to look at the flow of arm , training and finance from the iranian regime to the terror proxy of Hezbollah , Hamas and the Houthis , who be work tirelessly to ensure that there be not peace in the region . do he agree that we should be help Israel as much as we can to defend itself from these group and their attack ? my hon . friend be right . when we look at the scale of rocket fire and missile and the damage that they be do , and when we think about these poor people away from their home in northern Israel , who have be board up in hotel for month and month , it be important to have in clear view who be support these proxy and the arm and weaponry that be drive a lot of conflict in the region — include by Hamas , by the way . for all those reason , we keep sanction under review . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . obviously yet more death be a tragedy — every mother and every father grieve for lost child , as do all relative — but there be an issue here : unless the Government and Israel and other accept the International Court of Justice ' s opinion and judgment about the illegal nature of the occupation of the west bank and Gaza , and of course the illegal nature of the occupation of the Golan height , we be in danger of the conflict get much bad . the UN Secretary - General have call for restraint . will the British Government join he in do so ? will they also join he in try to convene some sort of regional peace initiative in order to prevent this whole thing from escalate completely out of control ? finally , do the Government reject the israeli occupation of the Golan height ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who I know have take up these issue over many year in this Parliament . let I be clear : what I see and what I continue to see in the occupy territory be unacceptable . he will know that the community who experience this violence in the Golan height be Druze in background , and that this be occupation of the Golan height — I do recognise that . I want to see de - escalation across the board and a solution along the line of Oslo and 1967 . a two - state solution be what we all want to get to , and we will achieve that if we have an immediate ceasefire and get back to political dialogue and conversation . I call James Asser . I be not down to ask a question , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I always have a question . [ laughter . ] sorry , humour be not what this be about . I apologise for that — I should not have say that . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his calm and measured statement , which encapsulate the temperament and concern of all of we in this Chamber , on both side . the attack at the football pitch in Majdal Shams be deadly and full of complete evil : 12 child and young adult be slaughter . will he outline what step be be take to find the perpetrator and hold they accountable , and to ensure the message be send that these attack will not bring peace , but instead further division ? what step will be take to assist Israel , whose very existence be under threat from Hezbollah ? Hezbollah be terrorist murderer of innocent , and must be neutralise . the hon . Gentleman know a lot about the issue of terrorism , and for that reason he have always use his position on the Back Benches to raise these issue . he be absolutely right : there will be many people in our jewish diaspora in this country look with real fear at the prospect of escalation and worry about their love one . we have update the travel advice in relation to Israel , particularly northern Israel , and of course we continue to work in partnership with our close ally at what be a very challenging moment . illegal israeli settlement be imperille the future viability of a palestinian state . they undermine the two - state solution . will the Secretary of State consider issue a statement say that if Israel continue to expand illegal settlement , the UK will immediately recognise the palestinian state ? I recognise the huge concern in this House and across the world about the nature of both the expansion and the violence . I have also say that recognition be important as a pathway to peace , and no country have a veto on when and how we do that , work with partner . however , I do not think that bring those two thing into proximity be the right way to go about thing diplomatically , and I suspect that if we do , we would struggle to find partner that would support we . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I seek your guidance ? I wish to place on record my severe concern about the Government ' s failure to come formally before the House on their decision to impose vat on independent school . not only have they impose this policy through a write ministerial statement , but they have now say that they will charge vat on any fee that be pay in advance . a WMS be insufficient and purposely prevent the House from debate a policy that affect rural economy — I have 10 independent school in my constituency — but also military and special educational need family and both comprehensive and independent school . Madam Deputy Speaker , how can you help we to resolve this issue , which be incredibly important for so many in the House ? the hon . Lady have place her concern on the record , and I be sure member on the Treasury Bench will have hear they . Budget Responsibility Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I congratulate you and welcome you to your place in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a privilege to open this debate in my first appearance at the Dispatch Box as a Minister in this new Labour Government . at the general election , the british people vote for change , and this new Labour Government begin work immediately to deliver on that mandate . sustained growth be the only route to the improved prosperity that this country need and to improve the living standard of the british people . after 14 year of conservative failure , this work be urgent — it be now our national mission . to deliver on that mission , as my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out day after take office , we must fix the foundation of the economy and restore economic stability . she emphasise that commitment to deliver economic stability by meet with the Office for Budget Responsibility soon after become Chancellor . under the legal framework we inherit from the conservative party , there be no requirement on the Treasury to subject fiscally significant announcement to independent OBR scrutiny . we all experience what happen when huge unfunded fiscal commitment be make without proper scrutiny and key economic institution such as the OBR be sideline . the country can not afford a repeat of the calamitous mini - Budget of September 2022 , when Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng ' s reckless plan unleash economic turmoil that have load hundred of pound on to people ' s mortgage and rent . Conservative Ministers put ideology before sound public money and party before country . this Labour Government be turn the page : we will always put the country first and party second . our commitment to fiscal discipline and sound money will never waver . that be why we be firmly committed to the independence of the OBR , and to the important principle that in normal time , the announcement of a fiscally significant measure should always be accompany by an independent assessment of its economic and fiscal implication , in order to support transparency and accountability . that be why we make a commitment in our manifesto to strengthen the role of the OBR , and it be why we have act quickly to deliver on that commitment today . this action will reinforce credibility and trust by prevent large - scale unfunded commitment that be not subject to an independent fiscal assessment . as Richard Hughes , the chair of the OBR , reiterate in his recent letter to the Chancellor , " it be a good principle of fiscal policymaking that major fiscal decision should be base upon , and present alongside , an up - to - date view of the economic and fiscal outlook " . in line with this , the Chancellor yesterday commission a full forecast to accompany our Budget on 30 October , follow the important principle that significant fiscal policy decision should be make at a fiscal event and accompany by an independent OBR assessment . that fiscal lock be an essential part of our mission to deliver economic stability . it be one of our first step towards fix the foundation of the economy , and it be our guarantee to the british people that this Labour Government be a responsible government who will never play fast and loose with public and family finance , as the conservative party have do before . the Bill set the legal framework for the operation of the fiscal lock . it build on the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 , which establish the OBR . in line with that , the technical detail underpin the fiscal lock will be set out via an upcoming update to the charter for budget responsibility . the charter set out the Government ' s fiscal framework , include guidance on how the OBR perform its duty within that framework . to support scrutiny of the Bill during its passage through Parliament , the Treasury have publish a draft of the relevant charter text , which will make clear exactly how the Government plan to implement the fiscal lock . a full update to the charter will be publish in due course , and member will vote on it in the usual way . the Bill itself do five thing to ensure that proper scrutiny of fiscal plan will take place . first , it require the Treasury , before the Government make any fiscally significant announcement in Parliament , to request that the OBR present an assessment take the announcement into account . this build on the usual process whereby the Chancellor commission the OBR for an economic and fiscal forecast to accompany a fiscal event . it guarantee in law that , from now on , every fiscally significant change to tax and spending will be subject to scrutiny by the independent OBR . secondly , the Bill give the OBR new power to independently decide to produce an assessment if they judge that the fiscal lock have be trigger . if a fiscally significant announcement be make without the Treasury have previously request a forecast from the OBR , the OBR be require to inform the Treasury Committee of its opinion and then prepare an assessment as soon as be practicable . that mean that , come what may , the OBR , through Parliament , will be able to hold the Government to account . thirdly , the Bill define a measure , or combination of measure , as " fiscally significant " if they exceed a specified percentage of gdp , with the charter then set the precise threshold itself . set the threshold in this way provide clarity for both the OBR and external stakeholder about what constitute a " fiscally significant announcement " — that is , when the fiscal lock have be trigger — and it ensure that the Government can set it at the right level go forward , recognise economic condition . the threshold level will be set at announcement of at least 1 % of nominal gdp in the late OBR forecast . as an example , this year the 1 % threshold would be £ 28 billion . this will ensure that we properly capture any announcement that resemble the growth plan of former member Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng in 2022 , with the broad risk to macroeconomic stability that this entail . fourthly , the Bill ensure that the fiscal lock do not apply to government respond to emergency , such as the covid - 19 pandemic . the Bill do so by not apply in respect of measure that be intend to have a temporary effect and which be in response to an emergency . the charter will define " temporary " as any measure that be intend to end within two year . this recognise that it be sometimes reasonable — for example during a pandemic — for the Government to act quickly and decisively without an OBR assessment , if that be need in response to a shock . of course , in emergency it may be appropriate for the Chancellor to commission a forecast from the OBR to follow measure that need to be announce or implement rapidly , and that would happen in the usual way . alongside any such announcement , the Treasury will be require to make it clear why it consider the situation to be an emergency . as set out in the update charter , the OBR will have the discretion to trigger the fiscal lock and prepare a report if it reasonably disagree . fifthly and finally , the Bill require the Government to publish any update to the detail of the fiscal lock — such as the threshold level at which it be trigger — in draft form at least 28 day before the update charter be lay before Parliament . this be an essential safeguard in the Bill , prevent any future Government from choose to ignore the fiscal lock by update the charter without the consent of Parliament . the Minister be set out the stark reality of where we be financially , which it be important that we all understand . give that the financial position of all of we within the United Kingdom could be fairly dramatically change , regionally , it will be important that discussion with the Northern Ireland Assembly , the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Parliament take place early enough for the impact of what might happen to be well understand . I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution . as I be sure he know , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be traditionally the lead Minister in Government for relationship with the Finance Ministers in the devolved government . I have already meet a number of time with counterpart in the Northern Ireland Executive , as well as those in Scotland and Wales . I look forward to meet they in person in Northern Ireland , I hope in September , for further such discussion . to conclude , people across the country be still suffer the consequence of the conservative party ' s economic experiment in 2022 . Conservative Ministers take the most reckless decision without any thought for their real - life impact on the british economy and on family finance . astonishingly , they have still make no apology . with this Labour Government , our commitment to fiscal discipline and sound money be the bedrock of our plan . the Budget Responsibility Bill guarantee in law that , from now on , every fiscally significant change to tax and spending will be subject to scrutiny by the independent OBR . the Bill will reinforce credibility and trust by prevent large - scale unfunded commitment that be not subject to the scrutiny of an OBR fiscal assessment . this deliver on a key manifesto commitment to provide economic stability and sound public finance by strengthen the role of the independent OBR . this be a crucial first step to fix the foundation in our economy , so that we can achieve sustained economic growth and make every part of the country well off . for those reason , I commend the Bill to the House . Madam Deputy Speaker , congratulation on your election . let I take my first opportunity to congratulate the right hon . and hon . member in the new Treasury ministerial team , who have take up some of the good job in government . I love every minute of my time in the Treasury , even when I have to come to this place to face my shadow . I will always be grateful to the official who so ably support I and the team . as the Member of Parliament for Grantham , the home of our country ' s first female Prime Minister , I congratulate our country ' s first female Chancellor . it be right that we highlight that . while the two be not politically align , we can all recognise when a ceiling have be shatter and no matter who be break it , we certainly recognise that on this side of the House . the Bill before we seek to amend the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 — a Bill , introduce by a Conservative Chancellor , that create the Office for Budget Responsibility . the Bill should be understand in that context , build on a previous Bill that replace the system where his Majesty ' s Treasury would produce its own forecast and the Chancellor of the Exchequer would essentially mark their own homework . back then , that be an essential piece of legislation , give what have go on before . between 2000 and 2010 the then Labour Government ' s so - call forecast for growth in the economy be out by an average of £ 13 billion and their forecast for the budget deficit three year ahead be out by an average of £ 40 billion . their forecast therefore lack any credibility at all . it be not just their forecast that lead to the creation of the OBR ; it be their management of the economy . much have already be say by the shadow Chancellor about the high inflation , high deficit and high unemployment that the Conservatives inherit from Labour in 2010 . what be , however , sometimes forget be that total public spending account for almost half the national income when Labour last leave office . welfare spending balloon by a staggering 45 % , and that runaway spending mean that we inherit the large budget deficit of any economy in Europe with the sole exception of Ireland . the idea that Labour have an unblemished record when it come to the public finance be , therefore , plain wrong . we conservative create the OBR , in Parliament , to guard against Labour ' s fiscal unaccountability and recklessness with the public finance . we continue to support the role of the OBR in provide open , fully transparent , independent forecast for all to see , no matter who be in government . it be genuinely good to hear that the Chancellor recognise the importance of the OBR when she say that because of the OBR , in her word , " you don ' t need to win an election to find out the state of public finance . " she be absolutely right about that . that be why yesterday ' s suppose revelation simply win ' t wash . in fact , if she be so supportive of the OBR , I ask a simple question : why be yesterday ' s statement base on internal Treasury analysis , not OBR analysis ? surely if they be very supportive of the OBR they would have ask the OBR to conduct the analysis . the OBR have always say that it would be ready to produce analysis at any time , on short notice . that be yesterday , and today we be here to talk about the Bill before we . while we be supportive of the OBR , we think it be right that the House should consider a number of concern that we have , on which we will seek clarification . first , the Bill will require the Treasury to request , and the OBR to produce , a report on fiscally significant measure announce by the Government , with the exception of temporary , emergency measure . the definition of these term — " fiscally significant " , " temporary " and " emergency " — will be set out in a charter for budget responsibility as the Chief Secretary outline . the draft charter text , publish alongside the Bill , deem measure to be fiscally significant if they cost the equivalent of 1 % of gdp in any financial year . it define as temporary any measure intend to end within two year , and the draft charter text give the OBR discretion to reasonably disagree with the Treasury ' s interpretation of what constitute emergency . despite some of the rhetoric , we note that nowhere in the Bill or the surround document be the OBR empower to prevent a Government from take fiscally significant action of any kind . the effect of this Bill be to ensure that an OBR costing accompany any fiscally significant action the Government take — nothing more , nothing less . the way in which the Chancellor describe this Bill as a so - call lock to prevent certain activity be — to be generous on my first outing — overly ambitious . the Bill be describe as introduce a fiscal lock , which the Chancellor promise will prevent large - scale unfunded commitment , but that be not what it do . there be no fiscal lock , and if anything , it be a forecast lock . the potential impact of the Bill be so limited and specific as to lead some to wonder whether , for all the animate hyperbole of the Chancellor yesterday , this be the prioritisation of gimmick over govern , despite what the Prime Minister say on the King ' s Speech . secondly , and I say this genuinely constructively , the Government need to be well prepared to clarify what be mean by " emergency " . the draft charter give the OBR the power to reasonably disagree with the Government ' s interpretation of what be an emergency , but this raise question about whether the OBR be equip to make such a decision in the first place . what count as an emergency should mostly be clear - cut , but what about instance that be less obvious , or when unforeseen circumstance come down the track ? the OBR would then be stray into political decision making , which would rightly raise constitutional issue . even if it be ultimately for minister to decide on such matter , any result disagreement between the Government and the OBR about whether the circumstance amount to an emergency could undermine the credibility of the Government , the OBR or both . I be genuinely perplex whether the hon . Gentleman be with the former Member for South West Norfolk , who want to see the OBR abolish and not part of any decision making , or feel that the Bill do not go far enough . either way , do he recognise and accept , as thousand of mortgage payer in this country now do , the disaster of the previous conservative Prime Minister ' s Budget , the impact it have have and the need never to go back to those day ? we support the OBR . I have be clear on that . we create the OBR , so to suggest that we do not support it be incorrect . I would just pull the hon . member up on some economic fact . the reason interest rate be so high and mortgage go up be that we face a global challenge , which this Government will now experience . in office , the Government have to deal with event , and what cause inflation around the world be two thing : the war in Ukraine , which push up wholesale gas price to record high ; and the fallout from a once - in - a - century pandemic that the Labour party seem to have forget about . those two factor result in 11 % inflation , which result in the Chancellor and Prime Minister at the time prioritise bring down inflation , which we do , to 2 % . we have now hand this Government 2 % inflation , half the deficit we inherit in 2010 , half the unemployment and the fast growth in the G7 , so it be a little bit rich to suggest that we take lesson from the Labour party on economic performance . our third and final concern — we have other , but I be in keep this short on Second reading — be that , in the event that the lock be trigger , the OBR do not need to produce one of its standard report , even though the Treasury , under the Bill , be require to request such a report to avoid break the lock . the Bill create , therefore , the possibility of an entirely new OBR report , which be not envisage by the original Act . I would be grateful if the Exchequer Secretary explain that and what it mean in practice when he sum up . although standard OBR report must be publish , it be not clear whether that apply to other report that the OBR may prepare . if this requirement do not apply , be the Government happy to give the OBR the power to decide whether its costing be publish ? that be potentially very concern for transparency . the official opposition look forward to more detailed scrutiny of the Bill and its practical implication . be in no doubt : we support the OBR , which we create to bring in much - need transparency to our fiscal framework after year of fiscal folly and false promise by the Labour party . at the same time , let we not pretend that the OBR should be the ultimate judge of good policy , that nothing bad can happen under its watchful eye and that nothing good can happen beyond its gaze . Labour member know this : it be precisely what they argue 15 year ago when we first debate the Bill that lead to the OBR ' s creation . the OBR should not become too political . it should be a referee , not a player , in the fight for fiscal accountability . in the end , we stand by the principle that the british people , through their elect representative , should always have the decide say on public policy . we look forward to debate this far in the month ahead . we will not be vote against this Bill on Second Reading . I look forward to the debate . I feel as though I be almost in Alice in Wonderland world when I listen to the Opposition response to this legislation . I certainly feel concerned that they , with the Cheshire Cat and possibly follow the Queen of Hearts , might have be try to pretend that their previous conservative Prime Minister do not exist , or indeed that the former Member for Spelthorne be never ever the Chancellor . those of we pay for a mortgage — and I declare a direct interest — know all too well that they be in charge and about the damage that they do with their disastrous mini - Budget , which be why this legislation be so important . I would wager that that what their constituent would tell they if they suggest that the economic harm the previous Government do to this country , for which we will all be pay for generation to come , be solely to do with Ukraine or the pandemic . that mini - Budget be a political choice , but bad than that , it be a politically uninformed choice . the Government at the time consciously and purposefully make the decision on ideological ground to press ahead with a Budget that cost 1 % of our gdp , and to hell with the consequence , as we have all see . that be why this legislation be so important . I will always welcome a sinner who repenteth , so I be pleased that the shadow Minister recognise the value of independent scrutiny and , indeed , urge we all to go far . we will always welcome such an approach , because it be right and because our constituent deserve well , because we can see how bad thing be and how break this country be . what this Bill have at its heart be the fund to repair the damage do by the previous Administration . that be why the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be here today with this Bill to be clear with we about why it matter , why we put thing on the book and why sound money be at the heart of it . the market do not react by accident and put up all our mortgage ; they see with terror the damage that bad leadership in the Treasury can do and have accordingly ask we to meet that challenge . frankly , there be nothing progressive about crash the economy , and that be exactly what the previous Government do . by put on the record the need to report independently on fiscally significant measure , we be start with a clean sheet and say that we will not take such a reckless approach with other people ' s money . at the end of the day , that be what this be : the tax revenue that be generate be the money of our constituent , and it be therefore right that we be careful about how we administer they . however , I recognise that there be challenge in this legislation . I be speak today because I hope to hear from the Ministers on the Front Bench further clarity about the concept of " fiscally significant " . as somebody who have always like to be hawkish about public money , I think it be important that we be clear where we be invest , and I very much urge the Treasury to think about invest to save . I see in our break society the damage that be do by poverty , poor public service and the high cost that come with that , so I want we to be clear about the funding we have , where it be come from and why every penny matter . as the hon . Lady know , the new Government have intimate that they may decide to mirror much new EU legislation , which could well have budgetary consequence . she and I have not quite always see eye to eye on Europe , but do she agree , in that context , that it be actually a bad mistake to do what the Government want to do tonight and abolish the European Scrutiny Committee ? the right hon . Member pre - empt many of my concern . there be a very strong story to tell about good fiscal discipline , but it be not possible to do that independently in a modern , global economy , so the scrutiny that we can provide in this place of a whole range of regulation do matter . those include financial regulation — I think particularly about the City and issue around a financial transaction tax , for example . I have not yet convince he of the merit of work more closely with Europe , but I be confident that one day we can do so . I agree with he , however , that this House should be fully part of that , just as I believe in the principle behind the Bill — that disinfectant come from transparency and our ability to see what be go on . that be why the Government be so right to bring this legislation forward . let I move on to some area where it be right to ask what we mean by fiscally significant . the right hon . Member and I might disagree about the deal we do in reset our relationship with Europe , but there can be no doubt that that will have a clear economic impact on this country . I think of the haulier who be consider whether they will give up bring good to the UK because of the Brexit border tax . the previous Government admit that that measure be inflationary and could have a significant impact not just on our food security , but on our economy , push up the cost of living . many of our constituent know that there be still too much month at the end of their money , and we should challenge any measure that make that hard . that will also inflect our tax take . the point I be get to be that if we be talk about measure that be so fiscally significant that they count for 1 % of GDP , a trade deal would easily meet that criterion . we need to be clear in the Bill what we ask of the Office for Budget Responsibility — which , after all , have provide evidence on the impact , for example , of leave the European Union — and whether we consider its role in such matter . if we be go to put everything on the book , let we make sure that the public understand fully the decision that we make and where the information come from . another area in which we as a House need to act be our outgoing , especially when we be be ask to make very difficult choice about some of the most vulnerable in our community , such as people who rely on welfare , or pensioner who rely on the winter fuel payment . we have to be honest : this country be pretty much bankrupt as a result of the previous Administration . if somebody in that dire financial position come into one of our surgery , we would sit with they and talk about a debt relief order . we would look at their cost and particularly at consolidate the debt that they may have . many colleague here will know that for many year I have be concern about legal loan sharking . that be not just in people ' s private life , but in the public sector , and I consider the private finance initiative to be the legal loan sharking of the public sector . if we be talk about fiscally significant measure — measure that meet the test of £ 28 billion — we should consider that we have £ 151 billion of outgoing commit to private finance company in this country , against £ 57 billion - worth of asset . Most people can see that those figure do not add up . local authority spend around £ 18 billion every two to five year on PFI repayment , of which about £ 4 billion be interest cost . that would suggest an average interest rate of around 35 % . if somebody come into a surgery with a loan at a 35 % interest rate , we would encourage they to go to a debt relief order . our country be no different , and this matter because , individually , local authority might not meet that fiscally significant threshold , but collectively , they will for we . we be not go to let hospital and school go bust and go out of business . parkland high school in Liverpool be build under PFI . it be close because there be not a demand for the place , but Liverpool city council be still play £ 12 , 000 a day for that closed school . it have repayment of £ 42 million leave and the company that own it be make a profit of around £ 340 , 000 a year from the scheme . private finance company be on our book , and they should be on our book nationally . they should be consider fiscally significant . we can do thing to consolidate those loan and to reduce the outgoing that will come . my contribution to the Bill and the amendment that I might table , depend on what minister say , will relate to the fact that I think we need to be clear that everything that be fiscally significant — decision that we might not proceed with and one that we do — should be subject to that level of scrutiny . the National Audit Office have give we plenty of information about the poor value for money of private finance initiative . many member who have these school and hospital in their constituency will have see this at first hand . there be evidence from the Department of Health and Social Care about what could be do to consolidate loan that probably would generate saving that would be fiscally significant , when we talk about the sum involve . it would be fantastic to see the Office for Budget Responsibility pick this matter up as part of our know how much we have to pay out as a country ; how much of a contribution we need to make . this money be go to private company that , on the whole , be not pay tax in this country , so it be not generate revenue that can go back into pay for the repair that need to come . the previous Government start to look at these issue and then walk away . I know that this Government , with their commitment to fiscal discipline and fiscal transparency , will want to be open about the benefit , cost and fiscal significance both of the trade deal that we might make and of private finance initiative . I look forward to hear from Ministers about that . this be a very different world — [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister be smile . I be sure that he miss his colleague from Spelthorne , but I know he will not miss the opportunity to say sorry to all our constituent for the mess we have be leave in and the reason why we need this legislation on the discipline of the OBR , and for the failure to tackle the long - term problem that have leave legal loan shark and poor trading opportunity for our constituent , because they be go to pick up the piece for generation to come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ; congratulation on your election . the Liberal Democrats understand the importance of a stable economy to the wellbeing of our nation , and we will support the Bill as it make its way through Parliament . we have see the effect of the chaos and uncertainty work by the previous Conservative Government in their horrendous mismanagement of the economy , and we know that future prosperity can be build only on a firm foundation . the former Member for South West Norfolk may have intervene to prevent official from use the phrase " disastrous " mini - Budget in the King ' s Speech document , but this be a disaster for which many million across the country continue to pay the price . liberal Democrat MPs have be return to this House in great number than ever before , because we understand how much our constituent have suffer from the increase in mortgage payment , high fuel bill and escalate food price that result from the disastrous mini - Budget . we will do all we can to tackle the cost of live crisis be feel by so many , and we welcome the new Government ' s commitment to build a strong platform for economic growth . we welcome the Bill as a symbol of strengthen fiscal responsibility and transparency , which we hope will prevent a repeat of the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - budget under Liz Truss from ever happen again . after the turmoil of the outgoing Conservative Government , we welcome the seriousness of intent from this government as they rebuild trust with the financial market and the business and financial sector as a whole . the financial irresponsibility and unfunded tax cut in the mini - Budget send mortgage rate soar and continue a pattern of low growth , fall living standard and business uncertainty under the Conservatives . million of people across the country continue to see the devastating impact of their disastrous governance in their food and energy bill and to feel its heavy burden in their personal finance . a recent report from the Institute for Fiscal Studies show that 320 , 000 people have be push into poverty because of mortgage interest rate rise cause by the incompetence of the previous Conservative Government . it have be devastating to hear the story of so many household drag into poverty , and to know that so many family be struggle under the bad cost of live crisis in a generation . it be painful to reflect on the thousand of people who be hope to make progress in their life and improve the circumstance of their family , but find themselves pull backwards by the weight of the cost now pile upon they . the IFS report tell we that the number of adult unable to keep their home warm enough increase from 1 . 8 million in 2020 to 4 . 6 million in 2023 . the IFS attribute that increase to the rise in mortgage interest rate during that period . the statistic lay bare in shame detail the enormous and ongoing impact that the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - Budget have on all our life . the positive response that this Bill have evoke from the broad business and finance sector be indicative of the desire for industry stability . we welcome the engagement from economist and industry expert , who advise of the Bill ' s beneficial impact on confidence in public finance . even the former Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , have acknowledge that he be minded to support the Bill . we will carefully scrutinise its detail to ensure that it will achieve its intend aim . in particular , we will look closely at the threshold for fiscally significant measure , set out in the legislation as measure worth at least 1 % of GDP or approximately £ 30 billion , and will consider whether that provision could be circumvent by Government announce major change just below that threshold . the propose term set a substantial threshold that would have to be reach before the OBR could insist on intervene . that raise question about how easy it would be for a government to skirt the rule and avoid scrutiny from the watchdog . we understand that the bar have be set relatively high to prevent a large - scale irresponsible fiscal event , such as the disastrous mini - Budget , but we be aware of the limitation that place on the Bill . in particular , an announcement could have a largely indirect fiscal effect — it could have an impact on the economy , but come at a small up - front cost to the Government — and therefore not trigger the fiscal lock . we therefore ask the Chancellor : can a GDP measure alone adequately capture the impact of a spending or taxation measure on the economy ? should the Government examine the possibility of use additional criterion in establish the threshold ? we must consider the wide context in which the Conservatives ' damage mini - Budget come about to determine whether the measure that we be debate would be sufficient to prevent such a disaster ever happen again . the Conservatives ’ period in government , and the last two Parliaments in particular , be characterise by a distaste for the institution that provide check and balance on power , and effort to actively undermine they . throughout the past few year , we have see attack on the judiciary , the civil service , the BBC , the Bank of England , the EU and any british citizen who dare express the view that the Government ' s botched Brexit deal be do enormous damage to our economy . we have see the provision of international treaty airily discard . conservative Ministers even illegally prorogue Parliament . even now , in the conservative party leadership contest , it seem that the one thing all candidate agree on be a promise that the UK will leave the European Court of Human Rights . the disastrous mini - Budget emerge from the philosophy that the power of central Government , exercise by successive conservative Prime Ministers , can trump that of other vital independent institution , and it be precisely that philosophy that we must never again see from Government . the ongoing failure of the former Member of Parliament for South West Norfolk to apologise for the disastrous mini - Budget underline the fact that she think she be both entitle and correct to unleash it on an unsuspecting country that vote for neither it nor she . truly address the cause of the systemic failure that lead to the disastrous mini - Budget will take a great deal more than this Bill . it require the Government to work alongside institution that exist to support and challenge their decision making . it require the Government to submit their propose measure to parliamentary scrutiny . the Liberal Democrats think that reform devolve power to local body to decentralise decision making would also strengthen our ability to take long - term decision in the national interest . this Bill and other measure be encourage sign of this new Government ' s intention to ensure that those in power act with more integrity and transparency , but ultimately , unless all government be commit to uphold the principle of fiscal responsibility , transparency and sound governance , the risk of future disaster such as the mini - Budget will remain . in our general election manifesto , we set out the need for every fiscal event to be accompany by an independent forecast from the OBR . more broadly , we wish to see the Government foster stability , certainty and confidence by manage the public finance responsibly , get national debt fall as a share of the economy and ensure that day - to - day spending do not exceed the amount raise in taxis . we must make the tax system fair by ask some of the wealthy company in the world to pay their fair share — the big bank , the oil and gas producer and the tech giant — instead of add even more to the burden on hard - work family . to improve stability and growth , we need to fix our break trading relationship with Europe and set up an industrial strategy , help to make Britain one of the most attractive place in the world for business to invest . we must work in partnership with responsible , sustainable business to tackle the climate emergency , and spur the growth that be need for investment in health , social care , education and other essential public service . responsibly manage public finance be essential if we be to have the stability , certainty and confidence that drive economic growth , and they be vital in get mortgage rate under control , too . under the outgoing Conservative Government , we find out just how much pain and damage can come from fiscal irresponsibility . the Liberal Democrats want a thriving british economy that provide job and opportunity and be attractive to business and investor . we welcome this Bill as a useful step in that direction that will help to improve long - term stability and responsible economic management . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . do the point of order relate to the business be discuss right now ? it relate to the business of the day . just for reference — I know that this can be tricky for new mp — point of order must be relevant to the business under way , or be make during the transition between item of business . however , I know that that be not easy for new mp , and I be grateful to the Member for give notice of the point of order , so he may proceed . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be hear a lot about transparency , accountability and scrutiny , but the business of the day , propose by the Leader of the House , include a plan to abolish the European Scrutiny Committee . when this country vote to leave the European Union , we vote to take back control . how can we scrutinise the Government ' s activity and negotiation with the European Union if the Government abolish the European Scrutiny Committee ? surely that be completely in contrast to what the Government propose in their manifesto , and to these discussion about scrutiny . once again , I be grateful to the Member for give we notice of his point of order . it be for the Government to decide what motion should be table and whether there should be consultation . any Select Committee can scrutinise matter within its remit , which may include matter relate to the European Union . the remit of the European Scrutiny Committee , as define in Standing Order no . 143 , be to examine European Union document — broadly speak , proposal for European Union legislation or policy . it be for the House , not for the Speaker , to decide whether the Committee still fulfil a useful function , now that the UK be no long a member of the EU . I call Martin Rhodes . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech during this debate . I move to Glasgow in 1992 , expect to stay for three year . now , over three decade later , I be pleased to say that I make it my home . for more than 30 year , I have live in the north of the city , so it be a great privilege and a great responsibility to have be elect to serve the constituency of Glasgow North . it be a constituency of huge variety and diversity . at its northern boundary , there be farmland north of Summerston , and at its southern boundary , at the River Clyde , there be the Scottish Event Campus , the Hydro venue and the city centre . there be the West of Scotland science park at its western boundary and the Glasgow Tigers speedway track towards the eastern boundary . of course , there be a lot more in between , include Firhill , the home of Partick Thistle ; the Kelvingrove art gallery ; Possil marsh , a site of special scientific interest ; Glasgow Caledonian University ; the University of Glasgow ; the Glasgow School of Art ; the Royal Conservatoire ; the Queen ' s Cross church of Charles Rennie Mackintosh ; the Forth and Clyde canal ; the River Kelvin ; Ruchill , Maryhill and Dawsholm park ; Kelvingrove park ; and the botanic garden . Most of all , and far more important than those key landmark , there be the community that make up Glasgow North , many of which have face and still face significant challenge , and have seek to do what they can to support each other in the face of those challenge . resilience be a thread that run through the diverse community of Glasgow North . it be an area that I be pleased to call home and be now privileged to represent in this place . I wish to recognise the work of my predecessor , Patrick Grady . in his time here , he be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Malawi . he have a long interest in development issue , which I be sure he will continue to pursue outside this place . the boundary of the constituency be different from what they be in previous Parliaments ; the constituency now include part of the city that be previously in Glasgow North East and Glasgow Central . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) will want to recognise the former Member for Glasgow North East , Anne McLaughlin , in her first speech , so with no disrespect to she , I will keep my comment to the former Member for Glasgow Central , Alison Thewliss . as Glasgow Central no long exist , I want to ensure that we as a House do not miss the opportunity to recognise her commitment and work . in her time in this place , and before that , when she be a city councillor in Glasgow , she show her commitment to serve those she represent . there be one other former member for Glasgow North to whom I would like to pay tribute today . Ann McKechin serve in this place from 2001 to 2015 . she have be a friend and a giver of wise advice for many year . in and outside this place , she have show her continue commitment to public service . all of we here want to ensure that we represent the people we be elect to represent . we recognise across the Chamber all Members ' aspiration to serve , but we need to ensure that this mutual recognition do not blind we to the challenge of politic and public service . a number of event not too long ago have add to and encourage distrust not just of politician but of politic itself . the turnout at the general election in my constituency be just over 50 % , and across the country it be only around 60 % . there be many reason for that . certainly , in constituency such as mine , the large amount of student accommodation lie empty because of the summer break count towards low turnout . the fact that the election be hold at the start of the scottish school holiday may have reduce turnout across Scotland , too . however , we should not let those contributory factor hide the clear opinion of many that politic be a self - serve occupation — and people demonstrate their indifference , distrust or disdain for it by not use their vote . for too long , government and politic have often allow themselves to be characterise by posturing and positioning , rather than the serious work of analyse problem , assess solution and deliver change . the empty charade of superficial posturing can initially seem to excite and engage , but the lack of substance , delivery and integrity can so easily tip the balance from excitement to disillusionment and a sense of betrayal . thorough analysis , serious discussion and honest decision making must be the basis of politic if we be to rebuild trust . financial responsibility and transparency be a key part of that . it be our challenge across this Chamber over the course of this Parliament to rebuild trust in political institution and process . we need to show to people out there that politics be act in their service , and that it can make real and positive change to their life and community . that be the challenge for all of we , and one that I hope that I can meet during my time in this place . I be very pleased to follow the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , who just deliver a textbook maiden speech , and negotiate his way around the fairly awkward change to the Glasgow constituency . judge by the unanimous reaction in the Chamber , the two former servant of his constituency that he salute be hard - work representative in this Chamber . I would like to reciprocate . he mention the former Labour Minister in the Scotland Office Ann McKechin , who invite I to her constituency office in Glasgow when I be a mature student around 2010 - 11 . she give I a good hour of her time , which I then think be fairly generous . as an MP , I now realise just how generous that be to someone who be not her constituent and who , within two or three minute , clearly demonstrate sign of a particularly different political outlook . I congratulate the hon . member . I welcome the Bill and commend the Government on introduce it . I be not certain that it be what they say ; I will develop that point in a wee moment . who among we could forget the aftermath of the Truss - Kwarteng debacle , which plunge business and household across these island into chaos ? the pair of they then disappear off into the sunset , leave we here to pick up the piece of their arrogant and economically illiterate fiscal experiment while in government . if anyone have forget , it be not mortgage payer up and down these island , who be still pay the price of that Tory Government misadventure . mortgage rate spike at 6 % after the mini - Budget . figure out last week from moneyfact show that the average rate for a two - year fix deal be still 5 . 79 % . we in the SNP warn at the time that the mini - Budget would lead to economic chaos , so we can only support the measure in the Bill to help ensure that there be never a repeat of that ridiculous performance . an independent assessment by the OBR for major and permanent fiscal intervention be welcome . it be responsible and the SNP support it , but to be clear it be no silver bullet . it will not fix the economy , and nor will it prevent fiscal incompetence from the current or future Chancellors , their official or junior Ministers . it will not fix the credibility of Chancellors who , for example , on take office say they do not know about the £ 20 billion black hole in the previous Government ' s fiscal plan that they be adopt , even though they be warn about it repeatedly and in public by the SNP , the Institute for Fiscal Studies and other . the SNP welcome effort at increase economic transparency , but the truth be that Labour have also be substantially short of honest with the public in this area . the new Government be seek to create a counter - narrative or counter - reality to uphold the belief that the cut and tax hike that Labour will soon visit upon business and community across these island have be do to Labour by the Tories , rather than do to the people by Labour . that be the truth of the matter . if Labour be serious about restore faith in , and the growth of , the economy , much more action be need from the Government . no economy ever cut its way to growth ; rather , growth be a function of investment . in closing , I greatly fear that the new Labour Government be get a bit carry away with their own success and be sail off from reality at some knot . I cite the nauseating " Government of service " hyperbole , the Potemkin energy company that be GB Energy , which be abject nonsense , and now the " fiscal lock " set out in the Bill . an assessment by the OBR be not a lock on anything . it do not enable or prevent anything . it do not confine , nor do it decide anything . Parliament will never allow it to be use as a shield for the Chancellor . from its beginning to its end , it be simply an impartial assessment leave the hand of the Chancellor of the day free to prosecute whatever plan they wish , consistent with the OBR ' s assessment or not . and so it should be , because Parliament be here to hold the Government to account — as be the people across these island , which we have see recently . to be clear , this provision be certainly no replacement for the rigorous parliamentary scrutiny of fiscal policy . that be a core function of this House , which I be sure that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , agree with . in the interest of consensus , will the Minister concede this minor point of detail — that " fiscal report " be far more realistic in term of what it actually mean than " fiscal lock " , for this nevertheless welcome measure ? I call Blair McDougall to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I be be welcome to my place , I welcome you to your place and congratulate you . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) . he speak about the lack of trust in politic ; his eloquent speech and the service he will give to his community will go a long way to help to repair that . can I say how wonderful it be to see he as one of many Labour mp from that great city ? I do not wish to nauseate the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) , but my speech be go to be about public duty . apology for that . yesterday evening , after the Chancellor ' s statement and the discussion afterwards about responsibility , duty and the legacy that people leave in this Chamber , I be stand on the bank of the river , watch the river go by as it have do for countless generation . I think of everyone who have stand on those bank before — about the choice and decision they have make , and how those choice have impact on the life of everyone who follow they . the first and most important duty , and the duty the Bill seek to enshrine , be to take responsible decision that will ensure a rich life for those who follow we — for our child and our grandchild . the failure of our age be that we depart from that purpose . in do so , we have leave people trap in short - term life — life without the opportunity to learn for the future ; life without a permanent home ; life of short - term , precarious work . fall life expectancy , a poison environment and a legacy of debt have be hand down to a generation . time and generation flow , and can change for the well or for the bad . that change happen as a result of political decision and also as a result of personal decision — I will talk about that aspect a little later in my speech — but the hard decision that we make today be what create a well tomorrow . for I the Bill be about we , as political leader , make the kind of decision that my constituent make every single day . pass this Bill will be a promissory note , say that this new Parliament will do well and that this new Labour Government will reclaim the legacy and the future of an abandon generation . the story of intergenerational opportunity be the story of my constituency of East Renfrewshire . I be go to be very brave and not claim that mine be the most beautiful constituency , partly because , have listen to the speech of other hon . member over the last couple of week , I be quite happy for that title to rest until the next maiden speaker stand up . you certainly can find natural beauty in East Renfrewshire if you walk through Greenbank Garden , stroll through Rouken Glen or take a hike to the top of Neilston Pad , but the extraordinary thing about my constituency be not the place but the people . generation after generation have move to East Renfrewshire because it offer hope for the next generation and a well life for their child . first they come for the mill , the work and the quarry — to Neilston , to Busby , to Giffnock and to Thornliebank . in Barrhead they come in great number for job at the old Shanks work , make toilet for the Titanic , for royalty and , indeed , for this place . I must admit that I feel some jealousy when I hear other hon . member talk about the pride they feel when Mr Speaker have choose the whisky that member sip on , or the shortbread for the canteen that member snack on . my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) have tell we that the seat we sit on come from his constituency . I do not want to think about what hon . member do on my constituency ' s most significant product , but I hope the relief it provide enhance the quality of debate in the Chamber . those industrial worker be follow south out of Glasgow by the irish and jewish community , then by muslim family , and in turn by Hindus and Sikhs . more recently we have be join by Ukrainians and Hongkongers , who be look not just for opportunity but for liberty . because East Renfrewshire be somewhere people aspire to live . parent sacrifice and strive to make the dream of live there real , drive on by the love of their family , because in East Renfrewshire we have extraordinary school — the good school in Scotland — with remarkable teacher who open wide the future for our child . I want to make special mention of the very remarkable Isobel Mair school , where every child with additional special need be value and celebrate . sacrifice and strive for the next generation do not stop at the school gate in my constituency ; it go far beyond that . volunteer at NellyBoxes , the include I 2 Club and back to SchoolBank work to ensure that disadvantage and disability be no barrier to a childhood of opportunity , discovery and fun . St Cadoc ' s football team be typical of the sport club that offer our kid the confidence and comradery that come with competition — start in 1987 by the school janny , it now have thousand of kid play football — but I could just as easily have tell the story of Giffnock Soccer Centre , Barrhead Youth football club , Neilston Wasps , GHA and Whitecraigs rugby club , or our East Renfrewshire cricket club . I could go on , and as this be my maiden speech I will : Harlequin Youth Theatre give kid the thrill of performance , and our flourish girl guide , scout and boy ' and girl ' brigade , and our Maccabi , offer young people adventure and a taste of leadership . East Renfrewshire be , to borrow a phrase from someone else , a constituency of joiner . that be a wonderful thing — unless you happen to be their Member of Parliament . I know from speak to my predecessor that East Renfrewshire be not always the easy place in the world to represent . three different hon . member from three different party have win and lose my constituency in the last decade . my immediate predecessor , Kirsten Oswald , deserve enormous praise for the service she give to the constituency , which be typify by the fact that when she lose at one general election , she come back , fight again and win . I hope that be not something that be repeat , but it be typical of how much she love the constituency . both she and Paul Masterton , my conservative predecessor , have be a source of constant support and advice , and I thank they for that . I pay special tribute to my former hon . friend — he be now just my friend — Jim Murphy , who serve the constituency for 18 year . I know from my time knock door in the election how fondly he be remember in the constituency , and it have be wonderful to talk to more long - stand hon . member and find out that he be still as fondly remember in this place . prior to the election , I spend most of the last decade work with democrats and against dictator around the world , but not all of my predecessor have such a frosty relationship with authoritarian . in 1941 , Rudolph Hess bail out of his Messerschmitt over the field outside Eaglesham in my constituency , and parachute to the ground . the Deputy F ü hrer of the Nazi party be seek to negotiate with Douglas Douglas - Hamilton , a former Member of Parliament for East Renfrewshire , who Hess believe — perhaps unfairly — to be a Nazi sympathiser . Hess be swiftly capture by a local farmer at pitchfork , and then take to Busby scout hall , apparently by an inebriated member of the national guard at pistol point . he be then take to the Tower of London , which sit alongside the river that flow outside here . time may have pass , but I can tell you that my constituent , inform by event in Ukraine and elsewhere , still have as little tolerance for dictator as they do back in the 1940 . my argument today be that we should think more long term in this House , but I make it in the knowledge that my own place here will only ever be temporary . I will close by say why I feel that so acutely . my root be in East Renfrewshire , where I be bear and bring up , but my ancestor hail from much close to this Chamber . my grandfather be bear across the river , in Lambeth . he be one of seven child scatter to different orphanage and foster home when his parent die . he go to his grave believe that his mother have be take by consumption and then his father have succumb to old wound from the great war . but that story be a lie . it be a lie tell to a boy to protect he from a horrible truth that be discover when we research our family tree . the truth be that my great - grandfather , overwhelm by grief and overcome by poverty , decide that his child would have a well future without he — that their life would be well if he end his . so he walk to Lambeth pier and throw himself into the freezing water that run past this Parliament . as the once famous Newton Mearns poet Robert Pollock write : " Sorrows remember sweeten present joy . " today , if you stand at the place where my great - grandfather ' s story end , you can look across the river to where his great - grandson just give his maiden speech as a Member of Parliament — watch from the Gallery by his own child . however long I serve on the bank of this river , I will always have an eye on the water fly by and my mind on the responsibility we have to our child and grandchild . I have no doubt that the hon . Gentleman will do his family very proud — but for I , comfort break will never be the same . I call Bobby Dean to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) on that heartfelt speech . it be gracious of he to say that his be not the most beautiful of constituency , but I think he be at least in the top 600 and possibly even high after one or two whisky . I also congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) on his maiden speech . the point he make about engage with the public and make sure that we restore trust in this place be really important . I be not go to speak about Scotland in my maiden speech . I be go to start by talk about where I come from . my parent be in the Gallery and I promise to stay ground , so this be the place I want to start . I grow up on a council estate as the eld of three boy . my dad work long hour as a scaffolder and my mum work two job , one in Burton ' s by day and one as a cleaner at night . thing be not always easy , and time get so tough at one point that , as a young teenager , I move into the care of my grandparent . I have find out in recent year that this be call kinship care . it be a pretty formal - sound name , but it be basically where family agree to take on family . I be very grateful to my Nan and Pops for help I back on to the right path , and I know that they would have be very proud of I if they have get to see this day . of course , it be not just family that get I here . I have have encouraging teacher , supportive friend , guide therapist , a campaign wife and a totally unreasonable bunch of people call activist who volunteer a silly amount of time to the cause . to all those that have be involve in my messy pathway to now , and especially to the people of Carshalton and Wallington who have put their faith in I : thank you . I be utterly humble to be here and I do not take this responsibility lightly . I have plan on describe my constituency of Carshalton and Wallington as a hidden gem , but since I start in this place a few week ago , I have keep bump into staff that live there , so it be clearly a popular place . for those that do not know , Carshalton and Wallington be on the south London border with Surrey — or in Surrey , depend on who you speak to . I describe it as hide because , despite be a London borough , you will not find we on the tube map . there be no London underground or London overground service in our borough , and this be an issue that I will return to at a later date . but my constituency be a gem . I be not go to say it be the most beautiful , but it be pretty beautiful . it have beautiful pond and many award - win park , and we have the historic River Wandle and so many good pub that it be really difficult to avoid they at the weekend . I would like to take this moment to recognise my predecessor , Elliot Colburn . this House will remember when he bravely speak out about his own struggle with mental health . I have great respect for his willingness and openness to share his story , and I be certain that his bravery will give courage to other to speak up and seek help , too . I would also like to put on record my recognition of another predecessor , Tom Brake , who serve my community of Carshalton and Wallington for over 22 year . he be a true local champion , and he be still speak about fondly on the doorstep . the House will probably be aware of his tireless campaign for St Helier hospital , and I plan to take up that issue at a later date , too . there be much more I would like to share about my constituency over time but , unlike the hon . member for East Renfrewshire , I will not take up that time now because I be keen to get involve in today ' s debate as well . I want to start by join my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) in welcome the thrust of the Government ' s proposal to give more power to the Office for Budget Responsibility to scrutinise major fiscal announcement . the inappropriately name mini - Budget send shockwave across the country , with mortgage soar , pension on the brink of collapse and market confidence damage so badly that I feel we will be deal with the trust issue cause by that disruption for quite some time . yet the state of our country ' s finance be not just down to one fiscal event . the populism that infect everything that the last Government do be lay bare by the Chancellor yesterday , and I be so angry about the mess that have be leave behind . it be always the most vulnerable that suffer the most when the Government get thing so drastically wrong , and we must never let such reckless gamble be take with our country ' s finance ever again . while I be optimistic that the fiscal lock will provide the public and market with some reassurance on this , I do hope that the Government do not feel lock into one particular model of fiscal management . the key lesson to take from the disastrous mini - Budget should be not that there be only one way to run the economy , but that , whatever choice the Government make , they should be inform by good information and stand up to rigorous analysis . it will be my intention from these Benches to encourage the Government to take seriously the call from many respected economist to ensure that fiscal responsibility go hand in hand with maximise the growth potential of the country over the long term . this be particularly relevant to major capital investment such as the rebuilding of St Helier hospital in my constituency . our local NHS trust face huge cost every year try to maintain an unfit building . we must not forget that there be a cost to not invest , too . when talk about growth , let we remember that it have not only a rate but a direction , and that necessarily involve political choice and can not be leave to expert analysis alone . while the OBR can rightly describe what action will increase growth and by how much , we in this House still have a crucial role to play in select what action will meet all of society ' s goal . a purpose - drive industrial strategy , as propose by the Liberal Democrats , will ensure that we deliver the right sort of growth , not least in relation to green industry . the Chancellor be right to reiterate that the Government should not commit to any unfunded spending pledge , but there be many way to fund the investment we so desperately need in our public service , and we do not have to increase tax on ordinary worker to do so . if the Chancellor be stick for idea , I would invite she to have a read of the liberal Democrat manifesto , which include idea such as raise capital gain tax and reverse the Tories ' cut for bank . there be fair way of raise the revenue we need , and we should look at they seriously . it be at this point that I look back up to the Gallery , and I have some regret that my maiden speech be on the intricacy of fiscal responsibility . if member would indulge I for a moment , before I close , I would like to make a brief translation by put my point into footballe term — Dad , this be mainly for you . the former manager play six up front and get hammer , but that do not mean that the new manager have to revert to a defensive five at the back . there be many different style of play out there , and I think some will have big reward . so let we get the balance right and get our country win again . no doubt your mum and dad enjoy that up in the Gallery . we now have another maiden speech — I call David Burton - Sampson . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant I the opportunity to give my maiden speech today , and especially during the first few week of this new Labour Government . I welcome you to your new place , and I thank the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) for his maiden speech — well do — and my hon . friend for their maiden speech . it be truly the honour of my life to stand here today as the first ever Labour MP for Southend West and Leigh . I be excited to take on the challenge ahead , and I be delighted to represent such a wonderful constituency . I would like to start by give my recognition and thank to Anna Firth , my predecessor . Anna be a good constituency MP and should be recognise for her work in stand up for her resident , for champion the fight against knife crime and , of course , for her private Member ' s Bill on pet abduction , which she be so passionate about and which gain royal assent just before the Dissolution of the last Parliament — it be a Bill that I wholeheartedly support . of course , it would be remiss of I to stand here today and not recognise Anna Firth ' s predecessor , Sir David Amess . for however long my constituent choose to keep I in this place , I will always be draw to the shield behind I remember Sir David . his murder send shockwave not only through this place but through the whole country . Sir David and I , while not agree politically , share many common trait — none more so than our passion for community and the people we serve . I look across this Chamber and see the shield dedicate to Jo Cox — another wonderful MP whose life be cut short too soon . I be honour to work closely with Jo ' s sister , now my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , as she establish the Jo Cox Foundation in Jo ' s memory . Jo ' s word about have " more in common than that which divide we " — [ Official Report , 3 June 2015 ; Vol . 596 , c . 675 . ] always hold true for I . it be time for much more civility in politic , and the driver of that civility start here , with all of we . Southend West and Leigh have a wonderful , diverse community spirit , from Eastwood to St Laurence , Prittlewell to Westborough , and Belfairs to Blenheim and St Luke ' s resident , who have just be welcome into our constituency . so many resident care deeply about their community , but , like many other across the country , opportunity and life chance depend on their circumstance . my constituency be home to some of the most beautiful seaside property — it be a beautiful place — but there be still 12 . 1 % of child live in poverty . grassroots organisation , such as the one Love Project , Trust link and the now famous Music Man Project , which recently perform at the Royal Albert Hall with Michael Ball and the Bands of his Majesty ' s Royal Marines , do amazing work to help bridge the gap . I be pleased that , with this new Labour Government in the service of our country , we will start the work of bridge the gap of opportunity for all . my constituency have some of the most impressive coastline . on a sunny day , a bit like today , if you stand overlook the estuary in Leigh - on - Sea , Chalkwell or Westcliff , your imagination could take you away to some exotic clime . and we be bless to be the seventh sunniest place in the UK , accord to recent datum , with 1 , 884 hour of sunshine a year . there be nothing more tranquil than find a quiet spot to sit , reflect and watch the world go by while gaze out to sea . from Leigh - on - Sea right up to Shoebury , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , we be incredibly fortunate to have the most amazing place and vista . we also have a buoyant fishing industry , with many business base themselves in our historic fishing town of Old Leigh , with cockling be particularly popular . many visitor and resident alike enjoy the delight of some freshly catch seafood from one of our local fishery . I be look forward to work with the Thames Estuary Fishermen ' s Association , which be part of the Leigh Port Partnership , to ensure that this industry continue to grow and thrive . we be fortunate to have a grow international airport . many remark on what a wonderful experience it be to fly to and from Southend airport , and you can often find yourself move from the plane , bag collect and into your car or on the train home less than 15 minute after land — try it sometime . of course , be by the sea , Southend have a popular tourist industry . with connection from London spread over two separate train line , we be often see as a seaside magnet for day tripper . we have several group and individual who enjoy cold water swimming , such as the Blue Tits Chill Swimmers , who be determined to get I out for an early morning swim . I just hope that rubber ring and arm band be acceptable . I be delighted that our Government be bring forward the water special measure Bill , as I know many of my constituent care greatly about the quality of the water in which they bathe . football club be a focal point of any community and in Southend we be fortunate enough to have Southend United , know locally as the Shrimpers . for some , their football club be a lifeline , give they the one opportunity to get out of the house at the weekend for the home game . our club be a community asset , but over recent year it have be sadly under threat . this insecurity have create much worry in the community . however , just over a week ago , we get the news everyone have be wait for : the club have be save by a consortium of new owner . I congratulate Councillor Daniel Cowan , the leader of Southend city council , his council officer and the Custodians of Southend United consortium for work with the previous owner to get this complex deal over the line . and , of course , thank go to the dedicated Shrimpers Trust for stand up for the fan . the situation with Southend United , as we have also sadly see with other club around the country , highlight the need for the football governance Bill , which I be pleased to see include in the recent King ' s Speech . I have be tell many time in my life that I would never achieve my dream . I be the boy from a single - parent family , bring up in social housing . I be the boy who look different from all the other kid in school and be often harshly remind of that fact . often , it feel like I be on an uphill struggle . I feel like I be fight so much hard than those around I to achieve my goal : from be the first person in my family to go to university through build my professional career and more recently , of course , my political career . I want to thank those mentor I have in my life who believe in I and help I smash through that elusive glass ceiling . they all know who they be . I hope that I can now be an example and a mentor to other , and that they will see that anything be possible , no matter who you be . I want to finish by pay tribute to my close family and friend , who have always have faith in I . I especially thank my husband , Mark , who be here today , for his unwavering support for I over the year . he continue to stand alongside I as we enter this new phase in our life . I be immensely proud to represent the 103 , 000 resident in my constituency , and I look forward to give they the support they need to live a happy , healthy and fair life , drive by our mission - lead Government focus on economic growth — a Government who have learn from the mistake of the past and will ensure that they never happen again . I welcome the Budget Responsibility Bill , which will bring great fiscal accountability and economic stability . my constituent , like so many other , will benefit directly from this Government ' s exciting programme of change , as lay out in the recent King ' s Speech , and I look forward to play my part in it . Sir David Amess be a mentor of mine , so thank you for mention he . he be very sorely miss . I call Jess Brown - Fuller to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be wonderful to see you take your place in the Chair . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , who speak passionately about his constituency and about embrace all that we have in common rather than that which divide we . it be interesting to hear that he live in the seventh sunniest place . I look forward to come back to that point later in my speech . it be an honour to address the Chamber as the newly elect Member of Parliament for the beautiful Chichester constituency . the constituency undergo some boundary change for this general election , so I would like to start by thank the two predecessor who represent the resident I now serve . Gillian Keegan be the MP for Chichester from 2017 , and be the first female MP to represent the constituency . she serve as Secretary of State for Education and proudly champion apprenticeship , and the opportunity that her own apprenticeship afford she , after grow up in Knowsley in Liverpool and leave school at 16 . she be well like by the Conservative party and across the House , and , although our politic be different , I wish she well in her future endeavour . I also wish to pay tribute to Nick Gibb , the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton from 1997 . both Bersted and Pagham resident mention to I on the doorstep during the last few month that he be a popular mp who have serve his constituent well , which no doubt add to their frustration when they realise that they be move to be part of the Chichester constituency , when their heart belong with Bognor Regis . I would like to take this opportunity to reassure those resident that my love for the area in which I have grow up know no bound . I say to resident from Bersted to Bosham , Selsey to Southbourne , Westbourne to the Witterings , Fishbourne to Funtington , and all the other area that do not fit within my poor attempt at alliteration : I will champion you all . Madam Deputy Speaker , today be the final day in the Chamber before recess . I have no doubt that mps will be rush back to their constituency to spend every possible moment there , but if they do manage to steal away for a long weekend , then I relish the opportunity to be a tour guide for a brief moment and tell they why a weekend in Chichester be a weekend well spend . although my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) have already lay claim to the glory of represent the sunny town in the UK , Chichester boast the high accolade of be the sunny city , with just under 2 , 000 hour of sunshine per year — and that be not the only way in which this glorious city punch above its weight . hon . member will not be short of thing to do , with beautiful coastline , sailing opportunity at Bosham , Dell Quay , Itchenor and Birdham and the sandy beach of West Wittering , as well as a plethora of cultural offering , from the internationally renowned Chichester Festival theatre to the Pallant House and Oxmarket gallery , the Novium museum and Fishbourne Roman palace , and even a spot of racing — both car and horse — at the Goodwood racecourse . they could easily spend an afternoon soak up the history of the city surround by roman wall , immerse in nature at Pagham harbour or Medmerry reserve , or follow the River Lavant , a precious chalk stream . I would not be forgive , especially by the head of department , if I do not mention the excellent University of Chichester , where I have the pleasure of obtain my degree . we be also the birthplace of notable figure such as the astronaut Tim Peake and the singer - songwriter Tom Odell , and we be home to Kate Winslet and author Greg and Kate Mosse . you can understand , Madam Deputy Speaker , why my very special constituency be a desirable location for those look to relocate . it be an area with so much to offer . however , with the majority of the district sit within the South Downs national park , 100 % of the housing allocation be build on only 20 % of the land , with a lack of infrastructure surround those development and resident report a real struggle to get a doctor ' s appointment , sign up with an NHS dentist , find school place that can meet their child ' s need or simply travel from a to b through the traffic on the A27 . as we be a low - lie coastal plain , many community be also subject to relentless flooding follow development on floodplain and a lack of maintenance on the rife . I be sure that those in the Chamber will appreciate how important water quality be to many industry , include tourism , fishing , water sport and sailing . it therefore pain I to say that some of the most active storm overflow be in my constituency and that Chichester harbour , which be a site of special scientific interest , have be downgrade to an unfavourable decline condition . the River Lavant have warn sign along its bed , encourage resident to wash their hand if they come into contact with the water , and those who enjoy cold water swimming in our water be weigh up its health benefit against how regularly they become ill from do so . trust in our water company and the regulator be at an all - time low . the Liberal Democrats have call for measure to address an issue that be a blight on constituency such as mine . the average house price in Chichester be an eye - watering £ 455 , 000 , and resident regularly express dismay at their increase rent and mortgage after the disastrous mini - Budget . they be try to make progress in their life , but be be pull back under the immense strain of increase cost pressure . I welcome the Budget Responsibility Bill , which commit to responsible economic governance to go towards ensure that what we see in the last Parliament never happen again . finally , I pay tribute to those who support I to be here , stand in this Chamber address my colleague . I thank my wonderful husband Dean , my son Oliver and my daughter Bethany for their understanding and support , which have span far long than this campaign . they be my inspiration , and I be fight for their future as well as that of every child in this country . I also thank my mum , who join we in the Gallery — I be not go to look at she ; I have just realise I can not . she have be so look forward to retire in May this year , only to be thrust day later into a general election campaign , knock on door with I , deliver leaflet and be my childcare . she be fully behind I in try to achieve the unachievable , because Chichester have have a Conservative MP since 1868 , except for a brief spell in 1923 when it flirt with Liberalism for just 12 month . on 4 July , resident go to the polling station and vote for change , whether they be traditional conservative voter or Labour and Green voter lend I their support . we make political history that night . I recognise the weight of responsibility on my shoulder to do every single one of those people proud and to represent the area in which I have the pleasure of grow up . it be a privilege and an honour . I will fight for my special patch of our great country every day . I call Andrew Pakes to make his maiden speech . it be a privilege to make my maiden speech while you be in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for the opportunity to follow such wonderful maiden speech , particularly that of the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) ; I pay tribute to she and to her mother . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , the first ever Labour Member for his constituency . I thank my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for bow out of the competition with Peterborough over which constituency be the most beautiful . I can think of no more important debate in which to make my maiden speech than one about secure our economic stability for my city and this country to flourish . as the gateway to the fen , the home of food and farming , Peterborough be willing to play its part in rebuild our country . I be the fifth MP for Peterborough in seven year — we have three in 2019 alone — so I hope to bring to my tenure as a local MP the much - herald stability that my party ' s Front Benchers talk about . I pay tribute to my predecessor , who all care deeply about our city and work hard to be a voice for our need on the national stage . it turn out that I have some illustrious predecessor . I feel I may be let my constituent down : it be fitting , during the Olympics , to pay tribute to David Cecil , who enter Parliament have already win a gold medal at the 1928 Olympics . I look forward to talk about my egg - and - spoon race at school . I would also like to thank my immediate predecessor Paul Bristow and his staff for their incredible hard work look after resident in need in our city . I be proud to be part of the large intake of Co - operative mps in Parliament ' s history . co - operative and community value run deep in Peterborough . I be the second Labour and Co - operative MP to serve our city ; the first be Stanley Tiffany , who be elect in another significant change election in 1945 . I note that Tiffany ' s first question in the House , in August 1945 , be to the then Minister of Health , Nye Bevan , on affordable and rural housing . the answer be that housing be a priority for the incoming Labour Government of 1945 . almost 80 year later , that challenge remain . I be pleased to see that affordable housing will be one of the priority of the Labour Government come into power in 2024 . tiffany ' s root be in the Peterborough and District Co - operative Society . I be incredibly proud to have be elect alongside Labour colleague on a pledge to double the size of the co - operative economy — a pledge that Tiffany could be proud of . just a few week ago , I meet staff at the Co - op store in Eye in Peterborough to hear about the rise in shoplifting and the abuse that too many of they face . abuse should never be part of the job . I put on record my thank to the retail worker in Peterborough and around the country who serve we every day . I pledge to work tirelessly with my good friend in the co - operative movement , the trade union and this House to give retail worker the dignity and protection at work that they need . we be also home to the wonderful English Mustard Growers co - operative , which be form in 2009 to keep mustard production alive in the UK after the disastrous harvest of 2007 . many people here will know our crop as Colman ' s mustard . today , there be over 40 grow member , include our very own Michael Sly , who be base at Park Farm in Thorney . in Peterborough , we really do cut the mustard . Peterborough have welcome people from across the country and the world for generation as a city , and even more so when we become a new town . I be one of those people who have choose to make Peterborough my home . the new town promise of a decent home , a good job and a great place to live remain as important today as ever , but it be a promise that have fray over the past 14 year . Peterborough be a work city with a rich history ; we work hard , care for our community and love our country . we be deeply rooted in an industrial heritage of food , farming and engineering . we be home to a breathtaking cathedral , majestic mosque , and urban landscape surround by the fen and poet John Clare ' s country . we exemplify Clare ' s word : " I find the poem in the field and only write they down " . we be at the heart of sugar beet country and the home of British Sugar . we show how urban and rural can live successfully side by side . we have a rich history and a bright future for food and farming , and I thank the farming community and my good friend in the National Farmers Union for their advice and friendship . in my time in this House , I will always be a champion for food security and for grow more food in this country . we draw on our engineering heritage of Perkins Engines , Caterpillar and Peter Brotherhood , and can use that heritage to create new , high - skilled job and apprenticeship for the future . we be home to a new and grow university campus in the form of Anglia Ruskin University Peterborough , and to a new centre for green technology at Peterborough college , work to transition blue - collar opportunity to green - collar one in hydrogen , electric vehicle and sustainable construction . we be also home to a rich diversity of community , language and tradition , from the Italians who arrive after the second world war to eastern Europeans and a large Kashmiri and pakistani community . visit Azad Kashmir last year with friend from Peterborough remain a highlight of my life . the beauty of that land and of its people impress upon I the need to speak up on Kashmir in this House . however , we also face challenge . nearly half the child in my constituency be grow up in poverty , and in some area , that figure be even high . for working - class parent such as mine , the promise be that by work hard , their child could get on . the great nobility I have know be work - class pride : the pride in good work , see your child succeed , and the ability to get on in life . that social contract have be break , and we be all the poor for it . I put on record my love and gratitude to my parent for instill that pride in I and for push I to do more . I believe they be watch I on telly today , unless I be up against Tom Daley in the diving . I also thank the trade union movement I have grow up in and be part of for my whole life for give I the skill , opportunity and confidence to stand for election , and now to stand in this House make this speech . over the past few year , I have have the immense privilege to serve as deputy general secretary of Prospect and Bectu , and to serve internationally as one of the trade union delegate to the OECD ' s AI expert panel , add my voice on international issue . the trade union movement make Britain a well place : every day , the contribution of thousand of workplace volunteer keep people safe at work , help people get on at work , and add to our economic wealth . I be proud to be union make . I will finish with this point : one of the thing that drive I to stand for election this time be the sad passing of my brother in 2016 . Richard ' s sudden pass from an accident follow by sepsis be tragic , but it also bring home to I that my family be only able to get through it with the help and care of NHS staff , who look after my brother and my family . sepsis be something this House have learn more about recently due to the bravery of the former Member for South Thanet , who I pay tribute to . the NHS and our public servant be the good of we , and I give this commitment in the House today : that I will use whatever time I have in this place to champion the NHS , but also to champion awareness of the danger and terror of sepsis and what it do to people and their family . Peterborough stand ready to play our part in rebuild our country . we have drive , dedication and purpose , and with a Government on our side , we look forward to drive opportunity in Peterborough and around the country . I look forward to see the hon . Gentleman ' s campaign on behalf of his brother Richard . we now have another maiden speech , from Joshua Reynolds . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to be call to make my maiden speech as Member of Parliament for Maidenhead , a place I have always be proud to call home . I recognise the fantastic maiden speech make by the hon . member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) : his passion for his constituency be clear from his speech , and I know he will be a fantastic representative of his constituent . next time I be put mustard on one of my ham sandwich , I will be think of he and his constituency , although maybe not of the pun he make . as a new MP , I be send a very early email by the fantastic team at the House of Commons Library with maiden speech from my predecessor , to get an idea about what I might like to say . but consider that since its inception in 1997 my constituency , Maidenhead , have only have one prior MP , there be not a lot to go on . I must start , therefore , by pay tribute to that predecessor , Theresa May , who represent the Maidenhead constituency for 27 year . during her time on the front Benches and in no . 10 she make sure that she put Maidenhead first . once , famously , have spend a week of late night in negotiation in the EU , she get off the plane in London and head straight for a school carol concert in the town centre . although I disagree with she on many thing , her dedication to the people of Maidenhead be something that I admire and hope to emulate . Hers be big — often very much report on by the medium — shoe to fill . unlike my namesake , Sir Joshua Reynolds , I can not paint to save my life ; but fortunately for I and my constituent , the village of Cookham in my constituency have give we Stanley Spencer , whose work be memorialise in the Stanley Spencer Gallery on the high street . we be lucky to still have a thriving art scene around Maidenhead and all our village . Maidenhead be a special place ; it have a rich history . it be where Charles I meet his child for the last time , in the Greyhound inn , now home to the NatWest bank , before his execution in 1649 . fortunately , visitor to Maidenhead today would discover a fantastic array of place to eat . the village of Bray have no less than seven Michelin star to its name , but to find fantastic food in Maidenhead you need not go to a restaurant approve by the Michelin man . you can go to Bakedd , ToMo , Sauce and Flour , the Borough or Seasonality — just some of the fantastic place to eat that Maidenhead have to offer . any time you fancy a trip down the Elizabeth line , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will be more than happy to take you to any of they . part of Maidenhead ' s history have always be the bridge over the Thames . soon after the first bridge be put up , in 1280 , the town start to build . the current incarnation of Maidenhead bridge have be stand since the mid - 1700s . the toll on Maidenhead bridge be remove on the night of 31 October 1903 , in a move that , have it be do today , probably would not have be worthy of attention from the Office for Budget Responsibility . however , it be so significant to resident of Maidenhead that they gather by the bridge and , as the clock strike midnight , take apart the toll gate and throw they into the river . another part of our history — famous for bridge — be the Brunel - design Maidenhead railway bridge , otherwise know as the " sound arch " , which open in 1839 , attract significant attention for its innovative low - rise arch design . sceptical boss at the Great Western Railway insist that he leave the scaffolding in place because they do not believe it to be safe . Rumour have it , though , that Brunel comply with their request . know that it be not necessary , he decide not to attach the scaffolding to the bridge . sure enough , the wooden structure be soon blow away by a storm , and Brunel ' s bridge have stand the test of time ever since . Maidenhead be also home to the late Sir Nicholas Winton , who be remember in the Nicholas Winton memorial garden in Oaken Grove park and in a statue on platform 3 of Maidenhead station . Sir Nicholas , dub by the press the " British Schindler " , help to save the life of 669 child who be evacuate from Czechoslovakia to Britain as part of the Kindertransport in 1939 . Sir Nicholas leave we in 2015 , have reach the grand age of 106 ; but his life and legacy as one of the great humanitarian be remember in the town . it be fair to say that the Palace of Westminster be slightly large than Maidenhead town hall , where I be recently a cabinet member for community and leisure . however , what the town hall lack in grandeur , statue and stain - glass window , it make up for in its television claim to fame . I be of course talk about the fact that it be use as the location for " carry on Doctor " . when I be work in the town hall , I often see an excited fan run up to the building to take photo , only to look slightly disappointed , know that they have travel so far to see a 1960 office block . last but not least on today ' s Maidenhead history tour , I can not fail to mention that the Spice Girls once famously share a house in Maidenhead before they burst on to the music scene in 1996 . I say that even if it be three year before I be bear ! maidenhead be so much more than just the town . I have already mention Cookham , which have be part of the constituency since it be establish in 1997 , and I have mention Bray , which move into Maidenhead from the Windsor constituency , bring those Michelin star along with it . it be , however , also home to Binfield , Warfield and Winkfield , which move into the constituency at this election . they may be the new part of the constituency , but they be just as important as the rest of it , and I look forward to spend time in each of they over the next few week as we head into recess . I must pay tribute to Maidenhead ' s fantastic primary and secondary school . they work to give pupil from all walk of life and all ability the good start that they can have . I be hugely grateful to my teacher at Alwyn , Courthouse and Furze Platts Senior school for the work and the help they give I . without it , I would not be speak in the House today . it would be remiss of I , however , not to talk about the challenge that we face locally . a significant number of resident in my community live in poverty , and homelessness be on the rise along with reliance on food bank . our local baby bank , found by local resident Rebecca and Councillor Amy Tisi , be see increase demand for its service . we must take action on fuel poverty , extend free school meal and restore the basic standard of live that vulnerable resident need the most . health service be patchy in Maidenhead , with GP surgery under phenomenal pressure and the near general hospital be in Slough . I be determined to see the walk - in centre reopen at St Mark ' s hospital after it be close down as a temporary measure at the beginning of covid lockdown . I want to see the site expand to cope with all the new home and development that be be build and propose for the area . my promise to resident be that I will not let up in my effort to close the health gap in Maidenhead . Maidenhead be a beautiful constituency , but if we be not careful its waterway , from Binfield cut in the south to the Thames in the north , will become open sewer . I have pledge to resident in Cookham , Hurley , the Walthams , Bray , Binfield , Warfield , Winkfield and North Ascot that I will fight tirelessly to clean up their river . I look forward to work with every single one of my colleague in this House over the next few year to help make that happen . to make his maiden speech , I call James Asser . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech , and may I congratulate you on your election ? I also congratulate all those who have speak for the first time today and over the last two week . the speech we have hear have be an incredible guide to the UK , and should make we all proud of the country we collectively represent . I offer my congratulation to the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) on his contribution , and wish he well in his time in the House . may I say , as an MP at the other end of the Elizabeth line and a " Carry on " fan , that I accept his invitation to dinner ? may I first pay tribute to my two immediate predecessor ? first , there be my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , now represent a small version of that seat . he mark 30 year as an MP this year , and I know he be well respected in this House . he be a well - know figure to local people and be recognise as a diligent constituency MP . indeed , canvass the area I gain from he , the most common question be , " where ' s Stephen ? " as a former councillor in his constituency , I want to thank he for his support . I also follow on from Lyn Brown , who retire at the election after 19 year ' service in this House and an impressive 36 year total elect service to the borough of Newham . I know Lyn make a big impact in Parliament and leave a strong legacy . I want to thank she for all her support in the last few year , especially during the election . her support and advice have be invaluable , and I know that support other Members be part of her record in this place . West Ham and Beckton have a long history , but this be a new seat make up of the southern half of the old West Ham and the Beckton and dock area of the large East Ham seat . the area have have multiple constituency over the year , include at one point Ernest Bevin ' s old south London seat of Woolwich East , which take in North Woolwich , the part of Kent that be north of the Thames — a curious but often forget bit of history , with a completely baffle county border . other who have represent part of this area in recent time include Jim Fitzpatrick and the irrepressible Tony Banks , but the first Labour MP to represent here be the original Keir — Keir Hardie , the found father of the Labour party , who be first elect to Parliament in West Ham South in 1892 . in 1906 , will Thorne , the founder of the union that be today GMB , which be found in Canning Town in the heart of my constituency , be elect to the same seat . when he be elect , there be just 29 labour mp . thing have move on somewhat since then . in fact , I be tell that more mp be member of the GMB than be member of the conservative party ; I thank they for demonstrate that so beautifully this afternoon . I say this not to be controversial , but mainly to drum up some canvass support for the next election . this be a big legacy to take on , because West Ham and Beckton have be at the heart of the Labour movement ' s history for over a century . it be also at the heart of this country ' s economic history . it contain the Royal Docks , which be the centre of much of the country ' s shipping and trade until their decline and closure in the early 1980 . the area be also a hub for manufacturing and infrastructure , much of which , but not all , have since go . Beckton gas work may now be primarily remember for its spoil heap , which become Beckton alp , and its one - time ski slope open by Princess Diana , or as a film location for many movie and music video , most notably " full Metal Jacket " . Beckton be , however , still the site of Europe ' s large sewage treatment plant . he be not here any more , but I be hope that might reassure my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) a little bit . it be a key part of Bazalgette ' s work to clean up London in the victorian era and today be part of the Thames tideway tunnel . sadly , river pollution be still a topical issue , two century on , as be so eloquently outline by the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) . many industry have go , and shipbuilde at Harland & Wolff and the Thames ironwork be just a memory — although the local football team the ironwork , which start in West Ham , be do all right — but company in some traditional industry , include Britvic and Tate & Lyle , still have big local factory at the heart of the community , and that be . the constituency be also a key element of London ' s economic future . the ExCel exhibition centre bring in 4 million visitor every year . London city airport be London ' s most central airport and be important to the City of London . we be also the new home of London City Hall and have London ' s only enterprise zone , which aim to create 35 , 000 new job and ten of thousand of new home on brownfield site . education be also thrive , include at the University of East London and the London Design & Engineering university technical college . locally , we like to celebrate our heritage , and you will find many park , building and road name after local hero from the art , sport , politic and public life , such as local boxer and footballer , the speedway star of the ' 30 , ' 40s and ' 50 who use to thrill on the racetrack at the old West Ham stadium in Custom House , and local factory worker and suffragette leader Minnie Baldock , who found the first London branch of the Women ' s Social and Political Union . the same go for momentous event in London ' s history ; the meeting in 1931 of Mahatma Gandhi and Charlie Chaplin be mark by the Gandhi Chaplin memorial garden , which be on the site of the house where they meet . most recently , to mark the move of City Hall , we honour Sri Lankan first world war veteran and pioneer race relation campaigner Kamal Chunchie , who fight for well life for the local black and asian community , and who , in 1926 , found the Coloured Men ' s Institute , where City Hall now stand , to far that aim . he speak to the diversity of my constituency . we be one of the most diverse place in the country , with community from every part of the world work and live alongside one another . it be what make the area such a great place to live and to represent . each community that arrive add to the mix , but also join in those long - stand east London tradition of hard work , community spirit and plain speak . Kamal Chunchie also remind we that while much focus be place on the change that have happen since 1945 , there have be diversity much long . in the 1920 , Canning Town have the large black community in London . Migration have be a fact of east London life for century . german immigration into east London in the victorian era be part of my family history . the debate around those who choose to make the UK their home be frequently too narrow , and too often drive by populist voice . we forget our history at our peril , but east London be a testament to its vibrancy . my constituent do not lack ambition , aspiration or talent — they have it in inspirational quantity — but too often , they lack opportunity . poverty be a real issue and , in recent year , have become much bad . locally , we have see child go to event in the hope of get food because they be hungry ; parent sleep in shift on mattress on the floor because there be not enough room for the whole family to have bed ; and child force to do their homework in the bathroom because there be no other space for they to do it . this Government be elect on a mandate for change . for many of my constituent , that be not an aspiration ; it be a necessity . my early Labour predecessor be send here to represent those who have no voice , those who need to be lift out of poverty and those who deserve a well life . I be under no illusion ; more than a century on , that demand be still real . I have be send here to support change , and to fight to improve life . it be my great regret that my father be no long alive to see I elect . it would have mean a lot to he . his advice to I be , " make sure you always do your good , because no one can ask more of you . " in my election acceptance speech , I promise my good to my constituent , and I repeat that promise today . I will do the good I can for everyone in West Ham and Beckton , and I will give my good to this House , too . I believe that together we can achieve the absolute good for our country and the people of my constituency . the people of West Ham and Beckton deserve no less . I call Llinos Medi to make her maiden speech . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . before I begin , I extend my deep condolence on behalf of Plaid Cymru to all the family affect by the horrific attack on innocent child in Southport . I congratulate the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) on his maiden speech . his constituency have some similarity with mine , which be be a place of hard work , community spirit and plain speak . we will get along well . it be an honour to deliver my maiden speech . I be deeply humble by the fact that the people of Ynys M ô n , my home island that I love so dearly , have put their faith in I as their MP , and I will work hard to be worthy of that trust . Ynys M ô n be know for its political unpredictability . we have be represent by four different party since the 1950 , make election here quite the spectacle — a treat for political anorak , but nerve - rack for candidate . the people of Ynys M ô n keep their representative on their toe , and I thank they for that . it remind I that in every decision and every debate , they come first . reflect on my constituency ' s rich political history , I first mention Megan Lloyd George , the first female MP for a Welsh constituency and a pioneer for woman in politic . she serve Ynys M ô n as a Liberal and an advocate of home rule for Wales . her legacy pave the way for great female representation in this House . she be follow by labour ' s Cledwyn Hughes , whose parliamentary career of 28 year include his tenure at the Welsh Office , during which the Welsh Language Act reach the statute book in 1967 . that be a significant milestone in the history of our language . Cledwyn Hughes be follow by a Conservative , Keith Best , until 1987 , when Ynys M ô n make history by elect its first - ever Plaid Cymru MP . I owe Ieuan Wyn Jones a huge debt of gratitude , and I be honour to follow in his footstep . his legacy remain unmatched , and I thank he for his continued support and guidance . labour ' s Albert Owen take the rein in 2001 . Albert serve our island diligently for 18 year , always ready to work across party line to serve the people of Ynys M ô n . the constituency turn blue again in 2019 . I pay tribute to Virginia Crosbie , whose work ethic I greatly admire . now Ynys M ô n be Plaid Cymru green again . it be yet again very close ; there be 637 vote in it . yes , Ynys M ô n be the gift that keep on give on election night , but I be very aware that this nail - bitingly close result make it my duty to work even hard to earn the trust of the people in all community on Ynys M ô n , whether they vote for I or another party , or even choose not to vote . budget responsibility be the topic of today ' s debate , which offer I an opportunity to reflect on my professional background . from 2017 until my recent election , I be the leader of Ynys M ô n county council . during that time , I witness at first hand the human consequence of the austerity measure impose by successive government . those decision force we to make cut to essential service — decision make not by choice , but by necessity , due to the reckless fiscal policy set in Westminster . I recognise the important principle of budget responsibility behind this Bill . it be a sensible step to ensure that the Government ' s plan be independently assess by the Office for Budget Responsibility before implementation . that oversight be important to prevent the fiscal mismanagement that lead to the previous Government ' s disastrous mini - Budget , which include the large package of tax cut in 50 year without any effort to make the public finance number add up . such a situation must never be allow to occur again . however , I have a niggle concern that the Government might use the chaos of their predecessor as an excuse to shy away from take bold economic decision . child poverty in Ynys M ô n stand at a staggering 35 % . we need bold measure , such as the abolition of the two - child cap on benefit , and real investment in our service and infrastructure to tackle the press issue . I fear that tinker around the edge will not be enough to drive growth in our economy . we need real investment to attract well - pay job and bring some dynamism back into our economy . just today , we see the Secretary of State for Wales refuse to commit to the electrification of the north Wales main line . we recognise the fiscal difficulty face the government , but investment in the economy should not simply be see as a cost to be cut . I urge the Government not to let the shock of the mini - Budget deter they from make the necessary investment in our community . as council leader , I see how the previous Conservative Government undermine our plan for the Wylfa nuclear site . we have plan to create high - quality , long - term job and build skill and supply - chain opportunity . our effort also focus on ensure that any development would respect our island ' s unique environment and culture and the Welsh language . sadly , the Conservative Government pull the plug in 2019 . now more than ever , we need clarity and commitment from the new Government . like many area , Ynys M ô n be bleed young people , who leave in search of well opportunity . we need high - skilled , well - pay job to sustain our community and ensure that they flourish . my journey into politic be not typical . as a farmer ' s daughter , I grow up understand the value of hard work , watch my father , a first - generation farmer , establish a farm alongside my mother . I leave school at 16 and undertake a care course . by the age of 18 , I be work as a carer in our care home . I have be a carer , a teaching assistant and a youth worker . I have also have several other role , include sell egg and milk recording on milk farm . in 2013 , I enter politic , stand as a county councillor . like many woman , I initially lack the confidence to step forward — I be force into it — but by 2015 I have become the leader of the opposition , and in 2017 I become the first female leader of Ynys M ô n council . my personal journey have not be typical , either . in 2015 , I find myself homeless with my two child . it be tough , but now I be the MP for Ynys M ô n . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] as for the most important lesson from my experience , I want to inspire other woman to believe that " if she can do it , I can do it . " I aim to bring woman along on this journey , regardless of their starting point . I will always be fill with pride when woman come up to I to say , " thank you . I ' ve go for it because of you . " I be not here for myself . I want people in Ynys M ô n who might also have be through a tough time to see my work here and be inspire to put themselves forward . Ynys M ô n be know as Gwlad y medra , which translate to the land of the can - do . that attitude have always guide my approach to politic , and will continue to do so in my work here . I look forward to crack on with the job . I will work with colleague from across the House with a can - do attitude to secure a bright future for the people of Ynys M ô n . I thank my two child , Elliw and Twm , for their continue support , which have ensure that their mother be stand here as the MP for Ynys M ô n . Diolch yn fawr iawn . I call Rosie wrighting to make her maiden speech . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your elevation . it be a privilege to follow such amazing maiden speech this afternoon , include from the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) , whom I admire for take woman along her journey with she . I have the privilege of meet the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) last week ; it be an honour to share this House with other young member on both side . I share the concern of my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) about the pollution in our river and thank he for bring that issue to the House . nothing prepare you for the pride you feel represent the area that you be bear and raise in , and the pride that I feel address this House as the Member for Kett ' ring — or , for those who be not from there , Kettering . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Philip Hollobone . Philip be an assiduous Parliamentarian who attend this House as often as possible and speak here frequently to raise issue of concern to the people of Kettering . despite our political difference , Philip have show I kindness in recent week . on the line of Philips who have represent Kettering , I also thank Phil Sawford , Kettering ' s last Labour Member , who make his maiden speech in this House on 28 July 1997 — coincidentally , also the day I be bear . Phil ' s impact as a Labour MP in Kettering be evident throughout the campaign , as his work be reference on countless doorstep . I owe a continued debt of gratitude to the Sawford family . Andy Sawford , the former Member for the Corby constituency — part of which have move into the Kettering constituency , with Little Stanion , Cottingham and Middleton — play a crucial role in the campaign . during his time in this House , he ensure that north Northamptonshire ' s voice be hear . he provide I with guidance and an unwavering belief from the outset that we could bring the necessary change for Kettering . the Kettering constituency be locate in the heart of England , although I be not sure it be as sunny as some of the constituency represent here . it be home to natural beauty , from the Weekley Hall wood to the River Nene , and the people of Kettering have achieve amazing thing , such as establish the local wellbeing cafe Johnny ' s Happy Place , and host a cheerleading team that have win world title . and we even have James Acaster . Kettering be proud of its stamp on history . the town play a significant role in the abolitionist movement , particularly through the effort of William Knibb , an influential critic of slavery . Kettering have a rich art heritage , with notable figure such as novelist J . l . Carr and painter Alfred East . the constituent of Kettering be pleased by and grateful for the contribution of Dame Sarah Gilbert , a scientist bear in Kettering who play a key role in develop the first vaccine during the pandemic . Kettering be know for its industrial link to shoe and boot manufacturing , so it be no wonder that I go on to have a career in the fashion industry . there be semi - rural area , and the urban town of Kettering alongside the small town of Rothwell — more commonly know as Rowell — and Desborough , which be know for its co - operative heritage and be home to the last shoe and boot manufacturer , Cheaney . Burton Latimer be where Weetabix be make — the scent of Weetabix can often be smell in the air . my own village , Geddington , be famous for its historic Queen Eleanor cross and its strong sense of community . we have unique community across the town and village in the constituency . you may not have be to Kettering , but you most likely have sit on a swing make by Wicksteed . member on this side of the House have almost certainly distribute leaflet that be print in the constituency in recent month . grow up in Kettering have its challenge , despite all the good thing it offer . I be raise in a single - parent family . my mum , who be a local youth worker , make significant sacrifice to demonstrate to I and my brother Joe that , despite the odd be against we at time , we could still strive for great thing if we want to . today , I come into this Chamber as the young woman here — a young woman who have not come from privilege and the first woman to represent Kettering . under the last government , my generation face significant hardship . there be a lot of talk about gen Z , but many in my generation have have challenging experience , such as education be move to our live room ; grow up on social medium and experience the dark place that it can be , especially during the campaign ; fear of a climate crisis in our lifetime ; rent in insecure housing , with the idea of home ownership only a distant dream ; and try to build a career in the midst of a cost of living crisis . it be this that have lead to my generation ' s trust in politician be so low . I be here today have campaign and join the Labour party because I believe in the upcoming change , not just for my generation but for all generation . in my constituency , the need for change could not be more apparent . the maternity ward of Kettering general hospital , where I be bear eight week early and care for as a premature baby , now have RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — and a floor be close off . after unfunded promise of a new hospital from the previous Government , I will fight for the people of Kettering to get the healthcare they deserve . Kettering currently have the high crime rate in Northamptonshire . predominantly , violent and sexual offence be report . but with Labour , we can see a shift towards community police and increase support for youth service , to prevent young people from take part in county line gang . I know that every day in my constituency people be struggle with the cost of living crisis . that be why this Bill be so important . we must work to get a stable economy and low energy bill with the launch of great British Energy . I will never forget the trust that people across the Kettering constituency have put in I . Kettering , a community with vast potential , require a supportive Government to achieve incredible thing , and that be what it now have . thank you for the warm welcome , Madam Deputy Speaker , from the House staff and mps on both side . I intend to work hard here in Parliament and in my constituency for all the resident of the town and village . I look forward to the honour of represent Kettering in the year ahead . the hon . Lady may be the young woman here but she definitely pack a punch . member , please refrain from use " you " or " your " , because you be talk through the Chair and I do not think you mean I . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) . I wish she well in her new role . she bring youth with she , but also experience of how life be . that be important when it come to represent people here . it be lovely to see you in your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish you well in your new role — well do . we have be incredibly bless today with all the maiden speech we have hear . each Member show their talent , skill and clear love of their constituency . we be all greatly encourage . as I say to the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) , we have see mp who will bring a lot to the debate we have in this Chamber , whether on the Department for Work and Pensions , road , farming , fishing , big issue such as human right around the world , or whatever it might be . each MP will bring their expertise and their point of view , which will enrich this House and encourage we , so I be pleased to have hear those speech . it be a real pleasure and a privilege for I to sit and hear they . I commend the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) . I love the wee thing she say at the end about her can - do attitude . every one of we can do in this House . the hon . Lady have tell we we can do , so I think we can do from now on . I look forward to work with everyone on the thing we can agree on . the issue for many of we in this House be not our difference . I suppose I maybe look at thing in a slightly different way , but I do not often see the politic ; I see the person . if we do that , we can see the goodness that we can all bring to the debate here . I be very pleased that you have allow I the opportunity to speak briefly about the Bill , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will not take too long . I be pleased to see the additional brake or fiscal lock , as it be clear that government should take cognisance of high - level support and opinion . I believe the Bill will secure just that . the Minister and the Labour Government be bring the Bill forward for the good reason , which be welcome , and I be very pleased to see it . however , I do believe that advice should be consider here . it be the role of government to do what be right , with a total vision for the country , and we must always ensure that the decision be make in this House by elect representative and not by unelected Members behind closed door . I know that our Government and our Minister will be aware of the need to strike a balance between take reason opinion and take instruction , and I know the Minister will take that on board . he have always speak in a reason way in the House and I know that he will not be find want today when he give his reasoned opinion at the end of the debate . I firmly believe in the need for the OBR ' s opinion . the reason for that will be clear when we consider the political motivation that seek to force the Government to spend more than £ 300 million on Casement Park in Northern Ireland , which could plainly necessitate tax increase because no part of the budget will allow the money to be allocate . I hope the Government will not pursue the project , and want to put that on the record . as I say yesterday follow the Chancellor ' s statement , I welcome the news that junior doctor will receive their much - need pay rise . I do not think anyone in this nation will not be encourage to know that they will receive the increase that we all think they should have . the Government have make that money available , and hopefully it will go in the right direction . the junior doctor ' pay rise be a necessity , and the change that will be necessary to generate it can be easily understand . not one of we do not owe our NHS a vast thank you for all it have do . when we be live through covid , many of we lose family member and love one , and we will be eternally grateful for the role that the NHS play . what be not so easily understand be why the tax pay by the average person in Warrington or Wrexham may be increase to fund a Gaelic Athletic Association project — I be refer , again , to Casement Park — which will generate income for a private sporting body , to the exclusion of other sport . I leave that comment on the record . the drive for this be political , not practical , and I hope that the OBR would express the reasoned view that raise taxis for such purpose do not instil confidence in the financial future of the nation . I hope the Bill will remind member that every project we undertake must be pay for from the public purse , in these time when the average person be struggle to lead his or her life , in contrast to the position five year ago . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) speak early about poverty across this great United Kingdom . in my constituency poverty level have rise dramatically , especially among child . I can honestly say , for the record , that I confidently believe that the Labour Government and the Minister will address these issue throughout this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the child in my constituency who be experience level of poverty that they have never experience before , and the adult who struggle to pay their bill — every Member have bring an illustration of that to the debate — so I be encourage to see the Labour party in the role it now have . we have hole in the economy in Northern Ireland as a result of under - investment . our pay structure need to be revamp and our education sector need improvement to deal with the change need of our child . I be think in particular of those with special educational need and disability . I remember have meeting about that with a Minister back home in Northern Ireland , and I be hopeful that some of the change that we talk about have be implement , but I be see demand on SEND education that I have never see before in all my year as an elect representative — as a councillor , and as a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly . our health sector need an overhaul as well , and all this will take central funding , but we also need a change in the way that happen . we do not need massively high level of middle management , and we do not need agency staff when we could give our nurse a 10 % pay increase that would be cheap than employ those staff . these be thing that we need to change . early , in an intervention , I ask the Minister about the Northern Ireland Assembly , the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Parliament . the Minister kindly confirm that he would have a role involve integration and interaction with the regional Administrations . I be particularly encouraged that he will be visit Northern Ireland , and the Assembly , in September this year . that show I that the Minister — my Minister here , through the Labour Government — say what he mean and will carry it out , which be good news — I welcome that . culture and heritage be also important , but they can never take precedence over heart operation or chemotherapy . no debate on budget responsibility can overlook this foundational aspect . I hope that this will serve as a timely reminder to we all that we have responsibility in this House that outweigh party politic . that must always be the first decision that we make in this House . I call Matthew Patrick to make his maiden speech . thank you for the opportunity to deliver my maiden speech in this important debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . the matter of budget responsibility be important to my constituent in Wirral West , because they know the cost of get it wrong — the cost to public finance , public service and public trust . I know they will support the measure we be introduce . may I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) , my many hon . friend and hon . member on make their maiden speech today ? they have be beautiful , tell story of constituency and personal journey . I think there be a theme to many of they — a theme about civility in public life , about ambition for everybody , and about the number of hour of sunshine that each of the various constituency receive . I will no doubt look that one up . I will focus my remark today on the place and the people who have bring I here . in so do , I hope to explain why I believe in the power of argument , disagreement and nuance . hon . member will know that my constituency be in the Wirral peninsula . what the House might not have realise be that we be quite particular about how you refer to the Wirral — it be never " Wirral " but " the Wirral " , and you be rarely " in it " but , rather , " on it " . the rich history of Wirral West — one of Vikings , James Bond and a Prime Minister — would not be out of place in a Hollywood blockbuster . the Vikings come to the Wirral in 900 ad , and they bring with they their own Parliament , which they call " thing " . that be how one of the most beautiful village we enjoy , Thingwall , be name . hon . member will probably be grateful that I be go to skip forward a few century of history to bring we close to the present day . Daniel Craig — the most recent James Bond and , in my view , the good 007 — be bring up , play rugby and go to school in West Kirby and Hoylake , and former Prime Minister Harold Wilson , who do so much for lifelong learning with the Open University and introduce important social reform , live in Spital . our past may be worthy of Hollywood , but our present and beautiful natural environment would not be out of place in a David Attenborough documentary . its physical beauty have be capture by many of the fine photographer , but even they will tell you that there be no substitute for see it for yourself — from walk to Hilbre Island and watch as the seal swim through the River Dee , to admire our golf course , which be famous for host the Open . those people lucky enough to call Wirral West their home be part of what make it so special . they bring passion to everything they do , and they carry that passion with a warm welcome and great dignity . that passion run through each of the town and village . it be passion for one another and for our area , help to expand opportunity to everyone . I can not imagine another place with as many community group , church and business that work so hard to do such good , include scout and guide group , the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , our school and hospital , and community hub such as the Hoole Road hub — so many group that support all people , whatever the difficulty they face . it be community spirit that have power we through some difficult time , and I hope that this new Government can help to bring back some hope so that we can look forward to well day . Wirral West , with its expand boundary , have be most recently serve by two people : Margaret Greenwood and my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) . Margaret Greenwood be deeply passionate about our NHS and our environment , and those be two passion that I share . as an MP , Margaret know that get our NHS back on its foot be vital so that it can deliver world - lead care . we be fortunate in Wirral West to have two hospital : Arrowe Park and Clatterbridge . I know the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be particularly fond of the latter , give the support it give to his family . I think back to the conversation I have in the election campaign , to the people wait sometimes year for crucial operation and the stress that that waiting add to their daily life . I will be think of those people as we do the work to turn the NHS around . as Margaret often remind we , there be no escape the threat that be climate change . it come up often on the doorstep . People on the Wirral , from teacher to scientist and from environmentalist to parent be worried , like so many , about the threat of climate change . they know that it do not respond to strong rhetoric , border or weapon . it be only action , join up with our partner around the world , that will help we to tackle climate change and save the environment . when I see the wind farm off our Wirral shore , I be proud that we can be a home of green energy and green job , deliver the bold action that be desperately need . my other predecessor , who now serve Birkenhead , have a deep impact on my own journey — ambitious for I personally and many people like I , from working - class community ; ambitious for all of we , encourage we , believe that we too can stand tall in place , even one as grand as this . I grow up in Birkenhead . it be a wonderful place , but it be not without its struggle . stand here now be a testament to my hon . friend and to her encouragement and ambition for people like I . she will know that , as proud as we rightly be , some people from ordinary background can fulfil their ambition , but it be still only some people , and there be much more that we must do . I will not rest until some people have opportunity become everybody have opportunity . the enormity of that task be match only by its importance . it would be daunt , but for the fact that I know I be not alone in that mission . I be proud to stand alongside my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead and all of my hon . friend in this great task . the Wirral have have many politician who have make an important contribution to public life . they include my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) and her championing of woman and the LGBT community , and Baron Hunt of Wirral , although member will realise that I think it should be Baron Hunt of the Wirral , but I will come back to that . he come from a different tradition from I but he have serve people in this country with bravery and distinction . and of course , there be Frank Field , who we sadly lose early this year . Frank be a dear friend of mine , and I miss he terribly . he be the first MP I meet . he be interested in what everyone have to say , and as hon . member across the House may know from personal experience , he be quite interested in disagreement , too . he be fascinate when what you have to say differ from his own view , and it be Frank who teach I that disagreement do not need to be tolerate in politic but rather to be seek out and embrace . he teach I that , if you believe in something , you should feel free to say it , and that as long as you do so with reason , respect and humility , you should enjoy the consideration of other . because we can not reward the absolutist . those who know everything with total certainty be , I think , the people we should most fear . I be conscious , stand here , of the responsibility place on I to represent the interest and people of Wirral West , and I will do that fiercely . I be deeply aware that representation be as much about listen as it be about speak . the most interesting and informative conversation that I have on the election campaign be with people who disagree with I . I learn much from they . in this House , while I bring from my career expertise in local government and economic policy , which I hope will benefit other , I intend to tap into the accumulate knowledge of hon . member from all side of the House . there have not be enough listen in our politic of late , and I believe that , if we be to restore faith in this House , which I believe we must , listen to our constituent and to one another be a vital step . Frank and I speak often about a whole range of issue and , even towards the end of his extraordinary life , he maintain a fascination with politic , with what it could do for people and with the disagreement that lie at its heart . a small part of his enormous legacy will be these three commitment that I make to this House . my commitment be to listen in good faith to argument make in good faith . my commitment be to change my mind when it be right to do so . and my commitment be to stand up for the thing that I believe in , so that other might do the same . that be what Frank would have expect , it be what the people of Wirral West rightly expect and it be what this House and our politic deserve . so it be " the Wirral " or " on the Wirral " — that be definitely note . we now have Luke Charters . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your elevation to the Chair . I be proud to stand here as part of a change Labour party that win the public ' s trust on the economy . I be so glad that we do , because we would otherwise still be at the behest of those on the Opposition Benches , who do so much to damage the public ' s finance . my constituent pay the economic price for their economic incompetence — the £ 22 billion black hole uncover yesterday be just one example . ultimately , that be why the opposition pay the price at the ballot box . the people of York Outer and this country resoundingly send a message at the general election : never again ! if anyone need remind why , they should take themselves back to 23 September 2022 , when we have £ 45 billion of unfunded tax cut , with no consultation with the OBR . the pound fall below $ 1 . 09 for the first time since 1985 . the central bank have to undertake emergency liquidity operation by purchase long - date gilt . bank and building society enter into a chaotic spin , with fix - rate mortgage product be pull — at one point , over 1 , 000 product be withdraw in a single day . as the former Member for South West Norfolk once say , that be a disgrace . amidst all the chaos , there be a simple point : the mini - Budget do not meet the need of the british people . let we take some of the business that close in the die ember of the last government . a music shop believe to be the old in the UK close only a few month after the mini - Budget . Banks Musicroom have be in York since 1756 , but ultimately market condition see it shut down in early 2023 . the stationery company Thomas Dick , in Clifton Moor , which close early this year , have be open 90 year but face chaos and supply chain issue that leave it no long viable . the decision we make in this place have real consequence , and the impact we can have on people be very real . before my election to this new role , my friend the Mayor of York and North Yorkshire run a small business on our high street . I remember he talk just before the mini - Budget about what the impact might be ; he warn just how dangerous the mini - Budget would be , and he be right . but it be not just about the impact on business . last weekend , I visit Hoping Street Kitchen , a fantastic volunteer - run project that help homeless people and those face poverty across York . I be deeply inspire by its volunteer , sense of community and unwavere commitment to improve the life of other . a volunteer tell I first hand how crumble public service , a lack of affordable housing and long mental health list have create an unimaginable crisis . the project have go from provide 30 to 40 meal a week during 2021 to provide 100 a week in 2024 . that be why it be critical that we implement our national mission to rebuild public service , build more home and offer more nhs appointment . but it be also why I be speak in this debate : this Bill be so important because it be the only way we can grow those public service with a stable economy . we see yesterday just how difficult that challenge will be , which be why we must protect our economy now . the Bill respect our institution , rather than undermine they , and a prime example be how it give real oversight to the Office for Budget Responsibility . it also include provision for the Treasury Committee to have a great say in key fiscal moment . however , with the heighten responsibility that the Bill give the OBR , we need to think about the most effective way in which the OBR could be properly scrutinise by Parliament , and the Bill could make more specific provision on the Treasury Committee ' s scrutiny role of the OBR . this week , I meet the team from the Institute for Government that author a report early this year on how Select Committees can well hold regulator to account . I commend that report , and I would welcome a debate on how this place good scrutinise the OBR . what the Bill really protect against , however , be knee - jerk reaction and fantasy Budgets . if we be to get the growth we so badly need , we must behave like an establish economy , not an emerge one that come out of the mini - Budget . that be why the Chancellor ' s presence at the G20 over the weekend and her warm word about Britain be open for business be so important . if we can fix the lamentable legacy that the conservative party leave , we will have real cause for optimism . I be pleased that the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) commend the work of the OBR in his first speech as shadow Chancellor , but it feel somewhat jarring for he to flippantly suggest : " we all understand the politic of a Bill that allow the Government to make endless reference to the mini Budget " . — [ Official Report , 22 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 408 . ] George Orwell once say : " the secret of rulership be to combine a belief in one ' s own infallibility with a power to learn from past mistake . " the conservative party clearly have some way to go in that regard , but under this Government the green shoot of economic recovery be already start to show . we may have inherit a particularly difficult situation , but the evidence of stable market and an increase in the pound show the confidence in the security that this Government bring . after all , I make it clear in my maiden speech how welcome it be that the country have some good Yorkshire representation in No . 11 , embody the value of frugality . we know there be tough decision to make , and we be not hide that from the british people : just take yesterday as a prime example of our approach . this Bill seek only to offer great transparency over decision making and it treat taxpayer ' money with respect . that be why I be proud to sit on the Government Benches , and it be why the people of York Outer can be confident that this be a Government that will serve they well . I call Yuan Yang to make her maiden speech . first , I would like to congratulate my fellow member on their wonderful maiden speech . my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) make remark about budget scrutiny that I agree with . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) speak cinematically of his peninsula and about the role of reason in political debate . my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) and I seem to share a birthday week , and I very much welcome the diversity of generation we see across the Chamber . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) speak powerfully about her experience of homelessness ; I be glad to hear such testimony in the House today . I share a predecessor with the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) ; he display an exemplary knowledge of railway bridge , and we share concern about Sonning bridge and the congestion on it . I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker , and thank you for call I in this debate on budget responsibility . during the Minister ' s remark , I strain to find a joke to make about national account , but I deem that it would be too much of a liability . I then consider make a joke about fiscal take , but I think that be too tax . I assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be no more joke about economic in my speech . joke aside , I first become engaged in politic while study economic 16 year ago , and I very much welcome a change in the way that we manage our economy . I be proud to stand before Members today represent my home constituency of Earley and Woodley , a new seat on the east and south of reading . Most of the household in my constituency have never be part of a labour seat , so for many resident I be their first Labour MP in history . I will work hard continuously to earn the trust of every one of my constituent , although it may be some time before I win over the former Member for Maidenhead , Theresa May . I want to thank four of my predecessor . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) be well love by his former constituent in my seat . his hard work , alongside the work of his predecessor and our Labour group on Reading borough council , connect the Elizabeth line to read . my other predecessor have retire from the House of Commons . for Theresa May , that retirement be extremely well earn . she step up to lead our country at a time of crisis , prove the maxim that it take a woman to clean up the mess the man have leave behind . even at the height of her national responsibility , she be always present and well respected in her constituency . John Redwood , the former Member for Wokingham , be a man of conviction and authenticity . I respect that very much in a politician , even though I do not share many of his conviction . finally , Alok Sharma , the former Member for Reading West , display international leadership , convene crucial climate talk as the President of COP . for the first time in history , we now have three constituency in Reading and , what be more , three Labour mps . Earley and Woodley have become a new constituency because of the family who have choose to settle there , move out from central reading , London , the rest of the UK and , indeed , the rest of the world . it be a success story for house building as well as for multiculturalism . it be a beautiful area , stretch from Sonning , on the bank of the Thames , to Shinfield , on the bank of the Loddon . in Earley , my family and I live within dog - walk distance of four lake and woodland . I want to ensure that future generation have access to nature and to affordable housing , because both have be under threat for too long . sonning have a long history , feature in the Domesday Book , but most of the area in my constituency have be build more recently . after the first world war , Reading contribute to the national campaign to house return soldier , by build home in Whitley and Whitley Wood . the area be now home to read football club . there be high - fly history in Woodley , too , which produce aircraft during the second world war . Most of the house in Earley , include my own , be build from the 1960 onwards . at one point in the 1980 , the area be the large housing development in Europe . Shinfield parish , which cover Spencers Wood , Three Mile Cross and Grazely , have have the most recent development . alongside Shinfield Studios , the large new film studio in the UK , we have the Shinfield Players , a community theatre . however , our constituency be not without its challenge . in many part of the constituency , the building of infrastructure have not keep pace with the need of resident , and we need a new Royal Berkshire hospital . we need to ensure that new investment benefit local people . we face deprivation , too , and I will support our grassroots community organisation to work alongside local authority on regeneration . for those live in our new build , reform of the leasehold system be much need , and I look forward to work on all these point with our new Government . at the heart of my constituency be the University of Reading , which do world - lead research into climate science and meteorology . we be also home to the European Centre for Medium - Range Weather Forecasts . now , there have be much competition in the debate this afternoon about who have the sunny constituency . although my constituency may not enter that competition , it surely hold the power to adjudicate the winner . the research prowess of the University of Reading , as well as the Thames valley cluster of science and technology giant , have make our area prosperous as well as diverse . we be proud of our diversity ; our diversity make we strong . yet there be those who seek to divide we and to weaponise our country ' s problem to turn we against ourselves . it be clear that we face many problem and that the politic of the past have fail to deliver , and in conversation with resident I have hear again and again the despair that have creep into our democracy , but I fundamentally believe that our democracy be worth fight for . I be bear in 1990 in China , a country without the right to vote . three decade later , another crackdown on democracy have lead to hundred of thousand of Hongkongers seek refuge in the UK . it be never easy to leave your home or to move country . I come here with my parent as a four - year - old and it take they many year to find stable work . I still remember my mother , the evening before I start secondary school , tell I , " Don ' t compare yourself to the other kid . their family have money and connection . we don ' t and we don ' t know anyone in this country . " as a 10 - year - old , I do not know what have connection mean , but I do learn not to compare myself to the other kid , and I think that my mother ' s advice have stand I in good stead . I thank my parent very much for support I throughout my campaign , and I feel lucky that we call Earley and Woodley our home . to all those family arrive here , wherever they be from and wherever they start off in life , I want to say that wealth or connection should not be a prerequisite for your child ' s success . I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who will do our utmost to break down the barrier to opportunity . I join the Labour party after university , because I see opportunity dry up for my generation . I study economic during the financial crisis and graduate during the onset of austerity . while study my master in economic , I realise how much economic debate have become detach from the real - world crisis around we . with fellow student , I set up rethink Economics , a charity that campaign for well economic education . I have spend most of my career try to make economic and business news engage and accessible , start at the Economist and then spend eight year at the Financial Times , where my colleague teach I so much and support I so well . I will miss they , but in the word of Cynthia Freeland : " I fully understand that I be now no long part of the pack , but part of the prey . " and so it should be in a democracy with media freedom — although less bloodlust would be welcome across this House , I be sure . I have work in place without medium freedom . I have interview labour activist , protester and fellow journalist who give up their own freedom for their cause . some be still in jail today . when I stand for election , some of my friend tell I I be brave , give the abuse and violence against woman and girl in our society and in politic , which I have suffer and which we must address , but I think I would be lucky to have a fraction of the bravery of some of my former interviewee . their determination make I even more determined to defend and improve our democracy , which have to be constantly renew through our action . our democracy have to be renew through reform — through empower our community , widen participation in democracy and end the corrupting influence of money in politic . our democracy also have to be renew through delivery — through build a fair economy that can support people . it be my great honour to be part of a government that will do both . I call Euan Stainbank to make his maiden speech . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , especially for her commitment in her career before come to this place to economic education and journalism , a noble profession and one that be critical in today ' s world . I thank all hon . member across the Chamber who have give their excellent maiden speech , and I pay tribute to the parliamentary staff and the Speaker ' s Office , who have be utterly exemplary in introduce new member to our role over the last few week . it be the honour of my life to be elect for the Falkirk constituency . Falkirk be my home : it be where I be bear , where I grow up and where I have spend the vast majority of my adult work life . the name for those from Falkirk be " Bairns " , or " the Bairns " , and the historical understanding be that true Falkirk Bairns be those bear within the boundary of the old borough of Falkirk , as I be — and here I will beat my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) and the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) — 27 day into the new millennium . as my partner Innes tell I on the night after the election , if it turn out I do not get here early enough to be the Baby of the House , I can be proud enough to be the Bairn of the House . I pay tribute to my predecessor John Mc Nally for his nine year of service to the people the people of Falkirk and to his office staff . I also thank John for his 10 year prior to that serve the people of Herbertshire and Denny and Dunipace on Falkirk council . I first speak to John last month , when he pop by an event host by the Forth Valley Sensory Centre and the Royal National Institute of Blind People Scotland on the very important topic of town centre accessibility with all the candidate vie for the Falkirk seat . the story I have hear about John from those in the Forth Valley Sensory Centre , as well as throughout the community , show he as a caring and passionate representative , always ready to lend a hand to anybody in need . I wish he well in future . accessibility be a cause that I be passionate about . how accessible our street be can often be the difference between somebody be force to stay home or be able to access their community . I encourage all hon . member , especially Scottish Members , to read the RNIB report " Street Credibility : make Scotland ' s street accessible for people with sight loss " , an excellent guide to how we can use our role to make street safe and easy to access for everyone . I would like to take hon . member through my constituency and the town , village and estate that make it up . we start with the Braes village where my grandfather John and my late grandmother Janet be from , Limerigg and Slamannan . across the Braes there be also Avonbridge , Standburn , California , Shieldhill and Whitecross . as we travel north down the Braes we get to Maddiston , Brightons , Rumford , Redding , Reddingmuirhead , Wallacestone and Polmont . as we go through Westquarter and Laurieston , the top of the Callendar Park high flat peek out as we enter the town of Falkirk and the Falkirk South ward that I be honour to represent for the last two year . surround the town be the estate of Hallglen and Lionthron , Bantaskin , where my mum Susan be raise , and Tamfourhill , where she first live . up north , past the stadium and the Kelpies , we find Middlefield , New Carron , Bainsford and Langlees . to the west , we pass through Camelon , where the Union and Forth & Clyde canal bisect at the famous Falkirk wheel , towards Bonnybridge , Dennyloanhead , Head of Muir , Greenhill and the Carron valley , where we find the town of Denny and the village of Dunipace , Banknock , Longcroft and Haggs . as my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) state in his maiden speech today , and as many other in the Chamber have say , it be our people who make our community . those wonderful community host most of my family and friend . when my dad Duncan make Scotland his home in 1992 — I know my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) say in his maiden speech that he move in the same year — both he and my mum Susan , a Falkirk native , want a community that I and my brother David would feel we could call our home for life . I be proud to represent my constituent in this place , but even prouder that I be represent my neighbour . we will all be well off under a government who seek to unite and serve , rather than a government who seek to divide . I know that this Labour Government will serve the people of my constituency well than we be serve before . prior to politic , my experience of service be earn in the hospitality sector : from the age of 16 , I be pour pint and serve table at hotel and restaurant ; even early than that , I be run a match - day kiosk at Parkhead . I swiftly move on from the latter job — the only place to be at 3 pm on a Saturday be the Falkirk stadium , the home of the Invincibles . this year , Falkirk football club become the first non - glaswegian man ' s team to go unbeaten for an entire league season in Scotland since the 19th century . I be look forward to welcome the sizeable number of Jambos in the Scottish parliamentary Labour party to our league cup fixture on 17 August , when I be hope we can bring back memory of when we end their invincible tilt in January 2015 . [ Laughter . ] it be a bit niche , that one . not everybody have recognise the value of my experience in the hospitality industry , as a recent online comment from a detractor illustrate : " Euan can ' t be the MP , that ' s the boy who use to work at that tapas place . " I humbly thank the people of Falkirk for elect the boy , who — prior to my entry into politic two year ago — do indeed work at Christie ' s Scottish Tapas in Falkirk , the well - deserve winner of the scottish restaurant of the year award in 2024 . I go back to Christie ' s on the day after the election to celebrate in the good way possible , in the heart of Falkirk ' s town centre . if any member be plan a visit to the stunning Kelpies in Helix Park , the one - of - a - kind Falkirk wheel , the historic Callendar House estate or the newly restore rosebank distillery — and I suggest they do all four — I strongly recommend a subsequent refreshing trip to one of Falkirk ' s incredible caf é s , restaurant and bar . among the highlight be Christie ' s Scottish Tapas , behind the Wall , the Sanam Tandoori , Finnegans caf é and the Wheatsheaf Inn , which be even hard to avoid than the restaurant in Carshalton and Wallington . both my trip to my old bit on the day after the election , and my online detractor declare my electoral incompatibility base on my pint - pour past , remind I that the service provide by those work in hospitality be not properly value by all of we who use it . if our foot be still sore from canvass , I know at first hand that that be nothing in comparison to the shift people put in cooking , clean and serve , day in , day out . if anybody in this Chamber think it be all just so easy , I recommend that they fasten their apron , get behind the cooker and get ready for the lunch rush . on behalf of hospitality worker , the most important message that I can pass on be " make sure we be pay properly . " the experience of hospitality worker , who often deal with low pay and insecure work despite their work ethic , display the fundamental reason why labour ' s new deal for work people , manifest in the forthcoming employment right Bill , matter so much . despite service the essential element of our economy and our community , substantial part of our work population be be tell , when they look at their payslip , that their work do not matter . the same impression be feel acutely by those work in the public sector — our teacher and school staff , NHS and social care worker , refuse collection worker and now especially college lecturer and staff , such as those at Forth Valley college in my constituency . I welcome the significant pay offer that this Labour Government announce yesterday ; I encourage the Scottish Government to use any consequential funding that will flow from it to settle the disruptive and long - stand dispute and give scottish public sector worker the pay rise that they deserve . for far too long , age - discriminatory band have indicate to young worker that their time be worth less than anybody else ' s . we have have a relatively stagnant minimum wage that do not reflect the spiral cost of living ; zero - hour contract , which I have work on ; and fire - and - rehire practice that prevent worker from have control over their life . those be all thing that this Labour Government will change emphatically for the well . as one of the first Members to be bear in this millennium , I share and echo the concern set out in other member ' maiden speech about the low turnout across the country , but especially the consistently low turnout among young people . many young people have speak to I on the doorstep about how they feel alienated from politic and be lose trust in politic as a route to positive outcome . this disconnect should not exist . as a councillor , I speak to so many passionate young people with bold and exciting idea about how to change their community for the well . I want especially to mention the young people at the Falkirk Youth Voice forum , the Scottish Youth Parliament Members for the constituency of Falkirk East and Falkirk West , and the Falkirk Champs Board , all of whom I have work closely beside . I be honour to be invite to participate in a panel discussion last Tuesday that be host by the Duke of Edinburgh scheme ; I draw hon . member ' attention to its Youth Voices 2024 study , which explore the issue that matter most to 3 , 000 young people from across the UK . work like this can be a road map to use our time here to make young people believe in politic as a force for good again . the start place to mend this bridge be have representative who listen to young people and work with they for well outcome . vote at 16 will be a substantial step in the right direction : I look forward to their be introduce in due course by this Labour Government . we must also make young people ' s prioritie our priority and clearly show ambition for our future when tackle issue such as the cost of housing , the cost of living , mental health , the climate crisis , the moral stain of child poverty , and the NHS . while many young people understand that we must efficiently progress our progressive economic agenda , they deserve to see substantial progress by the end of this Parliament . I look forward to far credible plan be put forward by this Labour Government to make sure we can tackle those issue . I be especially look forward to the first Labour Budget in the autumn , when I will work tirelessly on behalf of the people of Falkirk , advocate to see we permanently and sustainably end the cruell policy enact during the past 14 year . as the people of Falkirk demand change at this election , the young people of Falkirk , Scotland and the United Kingdom demand that they now see change . I will use my seat and my voice to champion they . we now come to the Front - Bench contribution . I begin , Madam Deputy Speaker , by congratulate you on your election and wish you well in the Chair , as well as congratulate the new ministerial team , who I hope will enjoy their time at the Treasury as much as I do . I also congratulate all hon . member across the House who make their maiden speech in today ' s debate : the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) , for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) , for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) , for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) , for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) , for Kettering ( Rosie Wrighting ) , for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) . all speak very well , with eloquence and passion , and we on the conservative Benches wish they well for the rest of their time in this House . in contrast to those positive , uplift maiden speech , we have also hear Labour Ministers talk the country down , claim to have inherit the bad set of circumstance since the second world war . frankly , Labour ' s approach be more OTT than OBR . to prove Labour wrong , we do not have to go as far back as 1945 : we only have to revisit 2010 . when we take over from Labour , unemployment be at 8 % ; the Conservatives nearly halve it to 4 . 4 % . in 2010 , the deficit be 10 . 3 % of gdp , thank to labour ' s reckless borrowing ; it be now 4 . 4 % , and be forecast to fall to 1 . 2 % in the come year . in 2010 , inflation be 3 . 4 % ; today , it be back at 2 % , the Bank of England ' s target . let we not forget that the final year of the last Labour Government see Britain experience the deep recession since quarterly datum start be publish — in fact , Labour Britain be in recession for long than any other G7 country at the time , and we be the last to exit . that be why in 2010 , Labour leave we with that infamous note say , " there ' s no money leave " . in contrast , this month we leave Labour with the fast - grow economy in the G7 , low inflation , low unemployment and 12 month of consecutive wage growth . we conservative believe in sound public finance , fiscal responsibility and independent forecast as the foundation of economic stability . that be why it be a Conservative Government who create the OBR in the first place , and it be why we be keen to safeguard its reputation for independence and focus . in that context , this Labour Bill feel more like gimmickry than government . it be clear that the Bill be really design for one purpose and one purpose alone : to distract everyone ahead of labour ' s tax rise in the autumn Budget . be it any wonder that the IFS say that Labour ' s fiscal lock proposal be " largely performative " , or that even the Resolution Foundation describe the policy ' s impact as " relatively small " ? when the Conservatives create the OBR , our legislation recognise that for it to be effective and respected , it have to maintain a delicate balance between independence and accountability . independent forecast , free from Treasury interference , would give the public more confidence in they , avoid the scenario that happen under the last Labour Government where their growth forecast be out by as much as £ 13 billion on average . at the same time , elect politician accountable to this House would retain control over fiscal decision , because those be ultimately political judgment that should not be delegate to unelecte body . however , today ' s Bill challenge the delicate balance that we leave in place . in fact , the most recent independent review of the OBR , carry out by the OECD , specifically warn against what it describe as " mission creep " . presciently , the OECD say that attempt to expand the OBR ' s current remit risk draw the organisation into area where it do not currently have sufficient capacity or expertise , create confusion about its role , and dilute its effectiveness . we on the conservative Benches agree : the OBR should not be drag into make actual or perceive political judgment , give unelected official the ability to essentially veto or shape decision that be in substance political . quite frankly , the Bill and Labour ' s proposal be full of unanswered question , which need answer today and throughout the Bill ' s passage . for example , be the OBR really equip to decide what count as a spending emergency ? should the OBR really be empower to reasonably disagree with Ministers , who be elect , ignore their opinion and strike out on its own ? the Bill give the OBR more power ; but what measure will the Government introduce to make the OBR more accountable to the House and its member ? can the Government explain why their fiscal lock completely ignore policy with large , indirect fiscal impact but whose up - front cost do not reach the GDP threshold , such as Labour ' s new open - door immigration policy , or their watering down of law that protect we from french - style strike ? why have the Chancellor announce over £ 25 billon of spending in 25 day without an OBR forecast ? despite claim a black hole in the public finance , Labour have already spend £ 8 . 3 billion of taxpayer ' money on a public energy company , £ 7 . 3 billion on a national wealth fund and around £ 10 billion on inflation - bust public sector pay deal without ask for any improvement in productivity in return . do they have a forecast for any of that spending , or have the fag packet be throw away ? when the Minister get to his foot , can he confirm that there will be no more tax rise beyond those already include in Labour ' s manifesto ? have already take away the winter fuel allowance from million of pensioner , will he rule out tax rise on people ' s pension , capital gain and council tax ? it be a Conservative Government who create the OBR to end labour ' s culture of inaccurate , politicise forecast . the OBR have establish itself as a fixture of the economic and political landscape , and we support it . but we have significant concern about the Bill , and believe it will benefit from further scrutiny and improvement by the whole House at its next stage , so we do not oppose that additional scrutiny . the Bill reveal the true fear and underlying motive of this Labour Government . it be an admission , and a confirmation , that one of the first law they bring forward , after 14 year in opposition , be design to save Ministers from their own Back Benchers ' spend demand , and stop themselves from crash the economy , as they have do on so many occasion before . the Bill show that they have finally realise what everyone else already know : this country can never trust Labour with our economy . I welcome your election to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a privilege to close this debate on the Budget Responsibility Bill on behalf of the Government . I thank all hon . member for their contribution ; in a moment I will address many of the point that they have raise . let I start by remind the House why the Bill be so important and what it be design to achieve . at the general election early this month , the british people vote for change . they vote to turn the page on 14 year of economic failure . People across Britain vote to remove the Conservatives from power . they vote to remove the party that crash the economy , and whose Ministers we now know be reckless with the public finance right till the very end . People vote to give Labour the chance to serve . with that honour afford to we , we have get to work straightaway in fix the mess the previous Government leave and get our economy grow . that economic growth be at the heart of our national mission as a Government . that growth underpin our plan in government to make people in every part of the UK well off and to get public service back on their foot in a sustainable way . we know that a crucial foundation for sustained growth be economic stability and fiscal responsibility . we have bring that stability and fiscal responsibility back into the heart of government . our fiscal rule be non - negotiable . as the Chancellor set out yesterday , meet they be a principle on which this new , Labour Government be elect , and that will guide she at October ' s Budget . but we want to go far in restore the trust that be so badly damage by the Conservatives during their time in office , by embed fiscal responsibility not just into our country ' s government but also into its law . that be why one of the first Bills to be present to the House of Commons by our new Government be the Budget Responsibility Bill whose second read we be debate today . the Bill will hardwire fiscal responsibility into significant financial decision of any future government , and it will prevent any party ever again be able to play fast and loose with the public finance . we see under the previous Government what happen when politician fail to show respect for taxpayer ' money . People across Britain be still feel the impact of Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng ' s recklessness nearly two year on from the economic disaster they create . the Conservatives ' recklessness in 2022 show just how much damage unfunded spending commitment can cause . minister at the time unleash economic turbulence that push up people ' s mortgage and rent and make people across Britain bad off , though it hit the least well - off the hard . we must never let that happen again . budget responsibility must never be optional . that be why Labour will hardwire this responsibility into Government through our fiscal lock , which will mean that all significant fiscal announcement in future will be guarantee independent scrutiny from the Office for Budget Responsibility . this Bill empower the OBR to independently produce an assessment of a Government ' s fiscal plan if it judge that the fiscal lock have be trigger . that will make sure that there be always proper scrutiny of a Government ' s fiscal plan , and guard against large - scale unfunded commitment and disaster such as the Conservatives ' so - call mini - Budget ever happen again . this Bill be a crucial step in fix the foundation of what we have inherit . I will take a pause from focus on the substance of the Bill to thank so many hon . member for their truly excellent maiden speech . we have a real tour around Britain , and I feel I have get to know place in all corner of our country through their passionate speech about the place and people they be all so proud to represent . we begin with my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , who speak about Kelvingrove park , which I go to when I visit Glasgow . he speak about the serious work of Government , and the importance of delivery and rebuild trust in politic . my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) say that the hard decision we make today be what create a well tomorrow . there be no well summary of the position we find ourselves in today . he speak passionately about the history of his constituency and the importance of a well future for the next generation . the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) speak movingly about his upbringing and how it have influence his politic . he also speak about his anger at the previous Government ' s recklessness . I have to say that while I enjoy go to the pub when there be big game on , I do not know that much about football , so I actually understand the fiscal bit of his speech more than the football analogy . shame ! I be just be honest — honesty in politic ! my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) make a very important point that we should all heed about civility in politic . he speak about the diverse community spirit in his area , but I be not go to even begin to compete with he on how impressive the coastline be in my landlocked suburban constituency . the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) speak about how special and sunny her constituency be . she begin a new competition ; now it be not only who have the most beautiful constituency , but the sunny . I be very touch by her recognition of the importance of family for both inspiration and practical support in politic . my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) speak about his Co - operative and trade union value , which I think many of we Labour Members share . I do not know until he speak about the connection between Peterborough and mustard , so that be something I have learn today . I think that his focus on the promise of new town really sum up our sense of optimism for the future . there be the idea of be proud of one ' s heritage , and honest about the challenge that we face , but he be also ready to achieve more in the future with a Government who support he . I wish he great stability in his seat . the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) give a particularly rich history of his constituency , which go from bridge to " carry on " movie , and he also mention the Spice Girls . I think a Spice Girls CD be the first I ever buy , but he may not know what a cd be . that sum up the different perspective we come from . my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) speak about the Royal Docks , where I spend much time in a previous role work at City Hall ; I see the great potential that that area of the capital city have . he eloquently set out the combination of heritage and diversity , past and present , that make his constituency such a lively and wonderful place to represent . I make he an offer : when he be jump on the Elizabeth line to visit the hon . member for Maidenhead , he can stop off at West Ealing to say hello to I . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) speak honestly about the importance of keep people in this place on their toe . that be right ; the electorate do keep we on our toe , and one of the great benefit of our system be the way in which we be bring down to earth every time we go back to our constituency on Thursdays or Fridays . however great and important the debate in this place be , when we knock on that door or sit down in our surgery , we be bring right back down to earth . it be a great feature of our political system , and she be right to draw attention to it . my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) speak about how proud she be of the history of the place that she now represent and where she grow up . I be very move to hear she speak about her mum ' s role as a local youth worker , and how that inspire she to do what she be do in life . I wish she well as one of the young mps in this place . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) speak about the natural beauty of his constituency — he be not the first Member to do so today — and the passion of the people there . his comment about politic be as much about listen as speak be particularly thoughtful . we should all bear that in mind in this place . he make an important point about learn from those with whom we disagree , or maybe only appear to disagree , and about break down barrier through listen and have conversation . my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) speak about business and voluntary project in his constituency . he underscore how important it be that taxpayer ' money be treat with respect . I know that the resident of York Outer will be very well serve by the excellent new MP we hear from today . my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , whom I enjoy campaign with during the general election , manage to inject some humour into economic , which be quite an achievement for a maiden speech . I be not even go to begin to try to replicate that in my comment just now , but she speak passionately about the importance to those in her constituency of have access to nature and affordable housing . I know from what she say , particularly about her personal experience , that she will be a true champion for break down barrier to opportunity . finally , we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , and it be worth the wait to hear his wonderful speech . he give a fantastic whistle - stop tour of his constituency , and make many excellent recommendation of where to eat and drink next time we be in the area . what really come across be how connected he be to the community he represent , through his neighbour , his friend and his family . he use a phrase that sum up well what I and other Government Members want to do : unite and serve . those be all the maiden speech we have today . it be a truly excellent tour of not just the country , but the talent we have in this place follow the general election . I wish all hon . member very well for however many year they spend in this place . we hear from other member about the substance of the Bill , include the shadow Ministers . they both seem a bit confused about whether they support the OBR and the Bill . I be glad that they confirm that they support the Bill and will not vote against it , but at one point the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) seem to defend Liz Truss over her handling of the economy . he must be pretty much the last person in the country willing to do so ; it be certainly brave of he . we Government member be clear on why the OBR be so important and what its role should be . the Bill set out to strengthen that . the hon . Gentleman ask what the purpose of the fiscal lock might be . the fiscal lock will prevent the sidelining of the OBR by give it the power to start an assessment if the Government announce fiscally significant policy without one . I remind he that the current shadow Chancellor say , at the time of the disastrous mini - Budget , that some of the difficulty be cause by the lack of a forecast , so this be something that the opposition agree with . the shadow Minister also ask about the definition of an emergency . we be very clear that in emergency — for instance , during the pandemic — it may be necessary for the Government to take rapid action . in those case , it would not be appropriate to hold back the response to the emergency until a forecast could be produce . finally , he ask whether the OBR report trigger by the fiscal lock will be publish . I can answer he simply : they will . that be set out in section 8 of the original Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 . I welcome the support from the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , for the Bill . she ask about the definition of " significant " , a point also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . the threshold set out in the draft charter for budget responsibility , which we have on the gov . uk website , be 1 % of gdp in any single financial year . the purpose of the legislation be to prevent large irresponsible fiscal announcement that could undermine economic stability , and that require a threshold target at fiscally significant announcement . that be why we have choose that figure in the draft legislation and the draft text publish on gov . uk . let I mention two other member who speak in the debate . I welcome the support of the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) for the Bill . I think that his only criticism be one word in the terminology , and we can probably live with that . he say that he be nauseous from hear we talk about be a Government of service , but he may have to get use to feel nauseous , because we will proudly be a Government of service every day that we have the honour to serve . finally , I be glad that this be not an exceptional debate in which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) do not make an intervention . I welcome his support for the Bill , and for the Government ' s wide action in resolve the junior doctor ’ industrial dispute . I reassure he that , like my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , I recognise the importance of work with political representative from all nation in the UK . as my right hon . Friend say at the beginning of this debate , a crucial first step to achieve sustain economic growth be deliver economic stability . this Bill will help provide that stability and ensure that fiscal responsibility be not only embed in our approach to government , but lock into how government work from this point on . it will make sure that there be always proper scrutiny of the Government ' s fiscal plan , reinforce credibility and trust , and make sure that no government can ever again play fast and loose with the public finance . the Bill be a key step in fix the foundation of our country as we set out to get the economy grow and to make family across Britain more secure and well off . we now know that the Conservatives call the election to run away from the problem that they have cover up , rather than take the tough decision to fix they . while they may have run away from the problem that they create , they can not run away from their record in office . People in Britain will not forget the last government ' s recklessness in 2022 , which show just how much damage unfunded spending commitment can cause . budget responsibility will never be optional under Labour , as it be under the Conservatives . we have bring fiscal responsibility back into the heart of government , and we will hardwire it into law through our fiscal lock . that be what this Bill will achieve . this Bill will draw a line under the economic recklessness of recent year and make it clear that it must never be allow to happen again . budget responsibility underpin our national mission to make people across Britain more secure and well off . for that reason and other , I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Budget Responsibility Bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Budget Responsibility Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion five hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . Budget Responsibility Bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Budget Responsibility Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur by the Treasury in consequence of the Act . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . business of the House ( today ) order , that at today ' s sit , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 122B , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of the Prime Minister , Rishi Sunak and Ed Davey relate to Select Committees not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) business without Debate Select Committees order , that , ( 1 ) the table in paragraph 2 of Standing Order no . 152 ( Select Committees relate to Government Departments ) be amend by leave out item 12 , level up , Housing and Communities , and insert in the appropriate place : housing , Communities and Local Government Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government 11 ( 2 ) pursuant to Standing Order no . 122B ( Election of Committee chair ) , the chair of those select committee subject to the Standing Order be allocate as indicate in the following Tables : Business and Trade Labour Culture , Media and Sport Conservative Defence Labour Education Labour Energy Security and Net Zero Labour Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Liberal Democrat Foreign Affairs Labour Health and Social Care Liberal Democrat Home Affairs Conservative Housing , Communities and Local Government Labour International Development Labour Justice Labour Northern Ireland Affairs Labour Science , Innovation and Technology Labour Scottish Affairs Labour Transport Labour Treasury Labour Welsh Affairs Labour Women and Equalities Labour Work and Pensions Labour Environmental Audit Labour Petitions Liberal Democrat Procedure Labour Public Accounts Conservative Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Conservative Standards Conservative — ( Lucy Powell . ) now that the House have agree to the allocation of Select Committee Chairs , I can announce that Mr Speaker have decide that the election of Chairs will take place on Wednesday 11 September between 10 am and 4 pm . nomination will close at 4 pm on Monday 9 September . the election of the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee will take place to the same timetable . nomination form and a briefing note with more information be available from the Vote Office . European Scrutiny Committee Motion make , and question propose , that Standing Order no . 143 ( European Scrutiny Committee ) be rescind . — ( Lucy Powell . ) it be important to have a debate on this motion . we have hear all afternoon splendid speech and maiden speech , have we not ? but the thrust of this afternoon have be scrutiny , accountability and responsibility . it seem extraordinary to I that while the other House have a Committee to scrutinise our relation with the European Union — indeed , today it have proudly announce that it have be reform — and the Government want to reform the House of Lords , we could have a situation in which there be only a Committee to scrutinise relation with the European Union in the other place . we have talk about scrutiny all afternoon . of the 27 Committees refer to on the Order Paper , the European Scrutiny Committee be the only one that include the word " scrutiny " , yet it be the one Committee that the Leader of the House want to do away with . I find that extraordinary . we have hear from the Government before the election , during the election and since the election about the importance of our relation with our friend in the European Union and how negotiation may take place on a whole raft of important issue . do hon . member remember the slogan , " take back control of our border , our money and our law " ? surely the whole point of our debate about our relationship with the European Union be that this be the place where we debate and legislate for law on behalf of the people , so if we be to take back control of our law , surely those law and the negotiation propose by the Government on behalf of the people should be scrutinise in detail and earnest , as have be propose all afternoon with regard to other matter . I suggest to the Leader of the House , the Government and the whip that we need to reflect on that . I urge the Leader of the House to withdraw the motion , reflect on it from the sedentary position of our sunbed over the next month and bring it back to the House in September . those of we who will be not on a sunbed but in our constituency do recognise that point . the hon . Gentleman and I will take a different view on the benefit of what the Government be do to reset our relationship with Europe now that we have leave the European Union so that we can finally get the trading benefit sort and sort out the border tax mess leave by the last Government . do he recognise that there be now a lacuna where people may question where such a debate will happen and what role parliamentarian may play in it , and that perhaps one fruitful thing would be to clarify what will happen to the European Statutory Instruments Committee , which seem to have be dissolve yet be look at the european law that we be transpose into UK law ? there be a number of question that may not be for this evening but be for the future of this Parliament . give what the hon . Gentleman be express , he and I might disagree on the outcome , but we agree that they be important question , and we would like to understand what will happen next . I thank the hon . Lady for her constructive and positive contribution . the reality be that it be incumbent on we , on behalf of million of people who believe in democracy in this country and want to take back control , to scrutinise the negotiation that the newly elect Government will have in multiple area with the European Union in Brussels and the european nation . it seem extraordinary to take away the ability to look at that in detail — I be not sure how million of people will understand it . I have listen to the hon . Member and the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , and I guess I be the third way because I do not agree with either of they . the hon . Gentleman have a significant point . as the relationship with the European Union evolve over the next five or 10 year , it be important that the Government maintain the trust of the british people . if this mechanism do not exist , I would like the Leader of the House to say what mechanism will replace it . will there be a duty on different Select Committees to report on their part of it ? or will there be some other mechanism to keep everyone on board with the journey that the Government be take we on ? I thank the right hon . member for his most helpful contribution . he reinforce the point : where be the scrutiny that our citizen rely on we all to exercise on the government ? however well intentione the Government ' s negotiation be , we have a role to play to avoid unintended consequence . it be splendid that the other place have its own scrutiny Committee — [ interruption . ] I have not be invite over there . I reinforce the point that this be the democratically elect House . we be charge with scrutinise the Government ' s negotiation with partner all around the world . it be incumbent on the Leader of the House and the Government to continue the European Scrutiny Committee , which have do good work and be surely well place to continue that focus . I serve on the European Scrutiny Committee for the entirety of the last Parliament . its work evolve from simply scrutinise the document that come from the European Union and have direct effect on our law , to take over much of the function of the Exiting the European Union Committee after it be disband . the Committee be do critical cross - Government scrutiny on thing such as retain EU law , the negotiation on the Gibraltar border and the continue operation of the trade and co - operation agreement . as a Select Committee it be not departmental in its outlook but entirely cross - cutting across all of Government . I thank the hon . member for that most helpful contribution , which reinforce the value of the Committee , its focus and its determination to get the law right for our million of citizen . I therefore urge the Leader of the House , again , to withdraw the motion and to reflect on these contribution . let we come back in September , have a debate on it and find the right way to proceed . the motion should be withdraw . I thank the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) for his contribution . I look forward to watch he race with his towel to the sun lounger — I be sure he will be beat by many other Europeans . I be a little confused by the hon . member ' s plea to keep a Select Committee that be a function of our membership of the European Union , since he have spend his life and all his effort get we to leave it , which we have now do . therefore the principal job of the Committee — to examine the document produce by the EU institution that the Government would automatically take on board — be no long require . in fact , I understand that he and his party wish this Parliament , other Departments and therefore other Select Committees to take on that job of consider all such issue in detail , because we be no long member of the European Union and be therefore no long require to automatically take on those document . I listen to what he say but be confuse by it . rise — I be not go to give way , because we be all at the end of a long day and many of we be look forward to our european holiday . I know that that be where the hon . Gentleman will be go straight away from here , to spend his euro on tapas and european beer . I will not take up his offer of withdraw the motion . I have hear what he say , but perhaps he can reflect a little , over that tapas and a beer on his sun lounger , on the confusion he have display tonight . question put and agree to . Southport Incident before the Home Secretary make a statement , I must advise the House that although the matter be not yet sub judice , for the purpose of the House rule member should exercise care in what they say about a major live criminal investigation . member should take care not to say anything in this House that might prejudice a criminal trial . while the Home Secretary may wish to make factual statement for the record , I urge member to avoid speculate about the guilt or innocence of any person , the identity of the person who have be arrest , or the motive for the attack . member may ask about the emergency service , the response to the attack , the support for victim ' family and other connected matter , but I urge the utmost caution in avoid any remark that might prejudice a future trial . I would like to make a statement about the devastating attack that take place in Southport yesterday morning . it be difficult to comprehend or to put into word the horror of what happen . these be young child dance to Taylor Swift and celebrate the start of the school holiday . what should have be a joyful start to the summer turn into an unspeakable tragedy . three young child have lose their life : Bebe King , age 6 ; Elsie Dot Stancombe , aged 7 ; and Alice Dasilva Aguiar , age 9 . the police have release some word that Alice ' s family have say : " keep smile and dance like you love to do , our princess . " six other child and two adult be still be treat for their injury in hospital . the whole House , and the whole country , be unite in shock and in grief . together , we send our thought , prayer and deep condolence to everybody who have be affect by these terrible event . this morning I join the Merseyside chief constable , chief fire officer , police and crime commissioner and my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) to lay flower on the street of the attack , and the Prime Minister be in Southport with the Mayor of the Liverpool city region this afternoon . I also meet this morning with some of the first responder — the merseyside police , North West Ambulance Service and Merseyside Fire and Rescue — who arrive at an unimaginably distressing scene yesterday and who respond with heroic professionalism . they be aid by passersby — NHS worker and off - duty emergency worker — who hear the call of distress and run to help . as the police officer say to I when we speak , they do these job know that they can be call upon in the tough of time , but nothing , still , can prepare you for an attack on little child . I want to recognise the toll that can take . those emergency worker be back at work yesterday . they live locally . some of they have be to the dance centre in the past with their own child or relative . they want to be out in their own community , continue to serve and support the people of Southport . that be public service at its very good . I also offer my sincere thank to everyone in the NHS — hospital across the region be tend to the victim and support their family right now — and to Sefton council and Merseyside police family liaison officer , who be already work to provide extensive support to the victim ' family and to the community . this morning I meet staff from Victim Care and the Samaritans , and local youth worker , who be also already provide local support to those who need it . the Home Office and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government stand ready to support they and work with they as they deal with the distressing aftermath of this terrible attack . merseyside police be now lead an extremely serious criminal investigation , and they be be support by counter - terrorism police . so far , Merseyside police have confirm that just before noon yesterday morning they be call to the dance studio , where 13 people have be attack — 11 child and two adult who try to prevent the attack . they arrest a 17 - year - old male at the scene . the police have say that they be not look for anyone else in connection with the attack and they do not believe that there be an ongoing threat . as you have rightly remind the House , Mr Speaker , this be an ongoing investigation , and it must not be impede or compromise in any way . that mean that all of we have a responsibility not to do or say anything to cut across or prejudice the criminal investigation . we must let the police do their job , and they have my full backing in that task . More than that , we must show respect for the family . when there be update , merseyside police work hard to try to provide information first to the family , although that be not always easy or possible . likewise , it be extremely important that people do not spread damaging misinformation online . false information have already be extensively share in the last 24 hour . those who do this for their own purpose risk undermine a crucial criminal investigation . I ask everyone to show some respect for the community in Southport , and for family who be grieve and in trauma . in these dark and difficult moment the police must be able to get on with their work , and community must be give the time and space to grieve and to heal without outside voice seek to use event to stir up division or advance their own view . there will be other question that flow as the investigation develop . we will doubtless in the day ahead discuss terrible violence and its cause . the investigation will of course pursue any contact that the suspect may or may not have have with different agency before the incident take place . Southport will no doubt be in our mind when we debate Martyn ' s law , which be part of the King ' s Speech . but for today , the most important focus of all must be the injured child , the grieve and traumatise family , and the people of Southport , who be in shock at what have happen . tonight , people from across Southport be gather for a community vigil . when I visit this morning , many people be gather at Southport football club , which have throw its door open for the community , and where youth worker tell I that they be determined to keep support Southport child with event this summer . I hope that everyone will recognise the sense of community and solidarity among the people of Southport , who have come together to support each other in the most terrible of time . the word of one paramedic have stay with I . he describe how terrible it be when he arrive and how despairing he feel , but also how proud he be of his colleague and passer - by who pull together to help . he say that while face the very bad of time , he also could see around he in his colleague and passer - by who be work together to save life the very good of humanity . that be what we keep in our heart as we think of Southport , and as we think of the grieve family . Most of all , our thought be with the little child , and we keep they in our prayer tonight . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Secretary of State for an advance copy of her statement . this be a heinous attack on innocent child and those care for they at the start of the summer holiday . it have no doubt leave family break and a community scar . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for come to the House to update we on the situation , and I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for allow flexibility on the Order Paper so that this event could be discuss . the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister have , of course , do the right thing by go to Southport today to offer the Government ' s condolence , and I echo their sentiment . all our thought be with the victim of this appalling attack , their family and the people of Southport at this incredibly difficult time . our thought be especially with those who have lose their life and those who be currently be treat in hospital , some of whom be in a critical condition . we think of their family at this time . I want to thank our emergency service who respond to this horrific attack . we should never take the bravery of the people who serve we for grant , and it be a reminder that when they run towards danger and unknown circumstance , we be duty - bind to give they our support so that they can act decisively and with confidence , and do everything they can to save life . of course , our ongoing thank go to the staff of the national health service who be currently care for the victim who be receive hospital treatment . particular thank go to the member of the public who intervene to help , despite the significant danger to they . their bravery can not be overstate . we still know little about the detail of what happen yesterday , and the right hon . Lady be absolutely right to say that we should give the police the time to do a proper and thorough investigation . she be also right to highlight the impact of misinformation and disinformation online ; enough people be already distressed without their distress be amplify by speculation and gossip online . I would ask that she follow up on the conversation that I have in the United States of America with the social media platform about their responsibility in this regard . this be also a reminder to all of we that we have a personal responsibility to check before we share , and that we should not feel the need to get involve in the grief of other . there will , of course , be a time when we must ask how this happen , so that we can take the right step to ensure that no child , no family and no community have to face the anguish that the people of Southport be feel today . it be too early for we to know the full picture , but an attack on innocent child enjoy their summer holiday strike to the heart of we all . no matter what drive this individual to commit this appalling crime , we stand together in solidarity with the people of Southport today . I want to finish by say that our heart go out to the three young girl who have lose their life : Bebe , Elsie and Alice . we can not imagine what their family be go through now , and I know the whole House will join the Home Secretary and I in express our condolence to they . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his word , and for his support for the family and whole community in Southport . I particularly thank he for his tribute to the emergency service worker . he will know from all his past experience the heroism they show , but that be strain beyond anything we could have imagine by what they have to deal with yesterday . I also thank he for his recognition of the bravery of the passer - by who come forward to help . I agree with the shadow Home Secretary about the responsibility on every one of we ; the police need to be able to pursue their investigation . there will be wide question for other day , but the most important thing be that every one of we support the police in their investigation . I also agree with he about the responsibility on social medium company ; we need to recognise that thing be take place on social medium that go against their term and condition and their commitment . they need to take some responsibility for that . above all , this be about young child and their family , who will be grieve , and there will be many other child who be involve yesterday who will be face great trauma as well . this be a moment when it be not just the people of Southport who will be desperately want to come together to support their own ; this be about all of we , not just across this House but across the whole country , be there for the people of Southport and the family who have lose love one . the hon . member for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) be in the constituency , so I be go to call the most immediate neighbouring MP , Bill Esterson . thank you , Mr Speaker . my hon . friend the Member for Southport be at the vigil that be take place as we gather here . I be sure that he and his constituent be grateful for the visit of the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary early today . he and they will also be grateful to the Home Secretary and the shadow Home Secretary for what they have say this evening . this be about Bebe , it be about Elsie and it be about Alice . it be about three young child who be murder . the Prime Minister talk about a collective trauma for the people of Merseyside , and I think that be exactly what be go on . my constituent be reflect that , as be the people in Southport . I want to pass on the thank of my constituent to the emergency service for their response , and for the fact that they be back at work today , as the Home Secretary say . I also want to thank those local people who intervene , as the shadow Home Secretary mention . I want to add to what the Home Secretary say about the importance of the responsibility of everyone here and everyone more widely , and to the concern that she and the shadow Home Secretary express about what have be say on social medium . I think the good way to respond to it be to look at the overwhelming sense of love and support that be see at the vigil , and in the many message that have be leave in the floral tribute and online from the vast majority of people , not just in Southport but across the country . that be the appropriate way to support those victim and their grieve love one this evening . I thank my hon . friend for his word . I know how much he and his constituent , as close neighbour of Southport , will be feel this now . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Southport , who I speak to today . he set off back home the moment he hear about this horrific attack yesterday , to be there in the community . he be show such leadership with the local resident in the community and at Southport football club , where so many people have come together today . this be just immensely hard for community , as all of we will know have feel our own community face pressure , but it be still so hard to imagine just what the community will be go through . I know that they will very much welcome everyone ' s support . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats extend our heartfelt condolence to those affect by the horrific event that have unfold in Southport . I can not begin to imagine the profound grief of the family of Elsie , Bebe and Alice , or the sense of cling that the family of those child still in hospital must be feel right now , know that they would do anything to keep those beautiful baby alive . we echo the deep gratitude for our emergency service and the courage and professionalism that they will have show , as well as for the adult in the room who be clearly try to protect the other who be there . the community have endure the unimaginable : young life lose in an act of such senseless violence . I pay tribute , along with the Home Secretary , to the outreach worker , the council and the police . she will know that council be under a lot of strain right now . be there extra funding that they will be able to access , so that they can address not just the scar that be happen now but the scar that be likely to emerge ? finally , the Home Secretary be right to point out that this be not the time for " what if " — we need the investigation to happen first . I also echo her plea to everyone to think before they post on this matter . however , will she commit to come back to the House , because at some point there will be lesson that need to be learn ? I hope that , collectively as a Parliament , we can say to this grieve community that , whatever lesson may be learn , we will make sure they be also enact . I welcome the hon . member ' s word and her support for Southport — the community , the family and the emergency worker . she be right to recognise the impact that deal with something as awful as this can have on emergency worker — on those who have to respond — and it be right that we should recognise that and show our support ; we owe those worker our support and thank for what they have to face and the way they respond . but , most of all , everybody will want to support the grieve family and the victim — those who have be most affect and who will have see huge trauma as a result . Victim Care Merseyside be already work closely to provide support . the Merseyside family liaison officer do an incredible job ; I have meet they in difficult circumstance in the past , and I know they will continue to do so . the Home Office and other Government Departments stand ready to work with they and to support they to make sure that the community get the support it need . may I draw the attention of the House and the wide public who may be watch to the fact that the Sky News feed have a link to the JustGiving website to raise money for the bereaved family , with all the cost that will be associate with their bereavement ? that be a practical way in which people can contribute . may I also briefly draw attention to the fact that when these situation arise , some of the most heroic participant be woman on the scene ? I have never understand why the courageous woman who go to help Lee Rigby confront his murderer never receive a bravery award . I also still do not understand why Grace o ' Malley - Kumar , who instead of run away from her murderer seek to fight the killer of her friend Barnaby , have not be honour although it be not too late . let we try to draw the inspiration we can even from the dark of deed such as this . I welcome the right hon . member ' s tribute to the bravery of those who be there — not only at the incident in Southport yesterday but at previous horrific attack . they be call on to show great bravery in the most difficult circumstance , and we should recognise that . we should all recognise that there be adult there yesterday who do everything they could to protect child who be be attack , and who face awful circumstance themselves as a result . all of they will be in our heart and in the heart of people right across the country . on behalf of myself and the DUP , I extend my deep condolence to the bereaved , the devastated family and , importantly , those in hospital who be fight for their life . I also put on record my thank to all the emergency service — the police and the ambulance service — and to those adult who make themselves available with no thought to their own safety . I think the message be clear for all the family : we grieve with you , our heart ache with you and all of we in this great nation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have all of you in our prayer . parent — mum and dad — want to know that their child be safe , so do the Home Secretary agree that that must be the goal ? perhaps she can outline just how that can be achieve ? all of we will share the hon . member ' s emotion , whether as a parent , grandparent , aunt or uncle , when we think about little child be affect in this way and just how devastating all of this be . it make every parent want to hug their child a little close when we see something as truly appalling as this happen . have be in Southport today at the football club , the youth worker be really keen to say to I that they be go to continue to support Southport child all summer and continue to organise event for they . they be do so this morning and they have child play football . little boy and girl be out play football at the Southport football club today , and the youth worker and their family be support they . there be a real determination to come together to support family and child , to never let a horrific incident like this stop all of we support our child , and for they to be out in the sun this summer holiday . on behalf of myself and Reform UK , I offer my heartfelt condolence to the family and friend of the child involve . I commend the Home Secretary : she have carry herself with great dignity today , so I thank she for that . I be just look at the three name of the child — it be absolutely heartbreaking to see the name of these little child . I kindly ask the Home Secretary , what more can we do as a House to support these family and the emergency worker up in Southport ? please send they our love . I thank the hon . member for his support for the people of Southport and all the family . this be heartbreaking for the family of Bebe , Alice and Elsie . this be a moment for everyone to send they our love and support , and to do the same for the whole community in Southport , because this affect everyone . everyone there know someone who maybe once go to that dance class , be a neighbour , or be deeply affect by what have happen . this be our opportunity to support they , the police , who be carry out this crucial investigation , and all the local group and organisation who be come together to support each other at this very difficult time . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement about this utterly horrific incident and for the way she make it . in memory of those who have already lose their life and those who be still suffer in hospital , can we challenge the whole knife culture that exist on the street of many of our community and constituency , where people believe that somehow or other carry a knife be a good and cool thing to do ? young people have lose their life . a horrific incident have take place . People be traumatise by it . that message need to go to everybody who think that carry a knife be somehow a good or cool thing to do . I thank the hon . member for his support for the family who be affect and for the people in Southport . he make a wide point about the issue around knife and knife crime . this have to be a moral mission for all of we . there be wide debate that we will have on other day about some of those issue . for today , this be still about Bebe , Elsie and Alice . this be still about the family who be wait by the bedside of their little child tonight , and those across the community who will be think of they . I join the Home Secretary in express my deep and heartfelt condolence to the family of Alice , Bebe and Elsie . word can not express the sorrow they must be feel after experience the bad nightmare of every parent . indeed , heartfelt prayer be with all those child and elder who be still in the hospital , and solidarity with the entire community of Southport . will there be additional support mechanism put in place for all the emergency worker who attend the scene , to ensure their wellbeing be a priority ? again , I welcome the support for the family and for all those who be not just grieve , but deal with trauma today . it be important , as I think I say early , that we think of the emergency service worker , who have to deal with the most difficult of circumstance on our behalf . they have do so to keep the rest of we safe . let we be clear : they save life yesterday . they show bravery when they arrive on the scene and they save life , and they will have endure the most difficult of circumstance to do so . I raise this with the chief constable of Merseyside and also with the chief fire officer , to ensure that those who be there , include the paramedic , get the proper support that they need . I can assure the House that I be tell that that support be already be put in place and that the merseyside police be already get the additional support . Petition - Mill Field Housing Development Proposals in Market Deeping I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent , just shy of 2 , 000 of whom have sign a petition call on the House of Commons to protect market Deeping ' s much love Mill Field . market Deeping have little over 6 , 300 people live in it , so almost a third of the town have sign . Mill Field be an area of 11 hectare of green field , border by mature hedgerow and tree . on one side there be Milford Road , the last rural lane in Market Deeping . the site have be use by the community for a variety purpose over many year , from the 19th century onwards . it should be a designate green space , but , sadly , it have be earmark for development . this be despite opposition from the local community and from Market Deeping town council . the development be be impose on a community that do not want it , and it threaten unspoile grassland use by family for generation . this petition be due to the tireless work of Pamela Steel and the Friends of Mill Field and I present it on their behalf this evening . follow be the full text of the petition . [ the petition of resident of South Holland and the Deepings , Declares that South Kesteven District Council should reconsider its plan to develop Mill Field , one of the few remain green field within the parish of Market Deeping , give that Lincolnshire County Council , which own the field , have put it forward as suitable for large housing development ; note that Mill Field be an intrinsic part of the rural character of the local area , and should be protect give its historical use for community event and so it can continue to provide resident with space for informal recreation ; further note that planning policy be clear that local community should not have unwanted development force upon they . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge South Kesteven District Council to protect Mill Field from development and remove Mill Field from their draft local plan and designate it as a Local Green Space , so protect it for future generation in perpetuity . and the petitioner remain , etc ] . [ p003004 ] Petition - Dental Health Care it be a pleasure to see you in your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . I rise to present a petition on dental healthcare on behalf of my constituent in York Central and other . York have a significant NHS dental crisis : less than 40 % of adult have access NHS dentistry in the past two year , and 1 , 707 resident have therefore sign the petition to call for a new approach to oral health , with a focus on prevention , support child , old people and those with co - morbidity , and address the workforce shortage , include with a dental school at the university of York and Hull combine . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to discontinue the current unworkable NHS dental contract and instead bring dental service fully back into the NHS through a National Dental Service . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the current NHS dental contract have fail and that UDAs ( unit of Dental Activity ) do not match the time require for dentist to provide dental care to their patient ; far that in England only £ 35 be spend per person on dental care , compare to £ 47 in Wales , £ 55 in Scotland and £ 56 in Northern Ireland , make funding and the system unviable for most dentist undertake nhs work ; far that patient must deal with extremely long waiting list to see a dentist ; far that in order to reduce waiting time , more dentist need to be train up in the UK to meet future shortage through commission a number of new dental school , include the joint university of York and Hull in other location , to run alongside their outstanding medical school ; far that there be need to address the workforce challenge within a dental workforce plan ; far that preventative dental care through fluoridation should be accelerate , as well as a school check - up service and supervised brushing programme ; and far that everyone over the age of 60 should be prioritise since poor dental health can lead to malnutrition and other comorbiditie . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to discontinue the current unworkable NHS dental contract and instead bring dental service fully back into the NHS through a National Dental Service . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003005 ] Food Security Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) Pope Benedict say that " food security be an authentically human requirement . guarantee it for present and future generation also mean safeguard ourselves against the uncontrolled exploitation of natural resource . " it will not have escape your notice , Madam Deputy Speaker , or that of other member of the House , that I represent a rural constituency with a preponderance of agricultural employment . many of my constituent be employ in agriculture , horticulture , the food industry and related job . Lincolnshire boast some of the well grow land in the country . unsurprisingly , therefore , Lincolnshire be responsible for 30 % of the nation ' s vegetable , produce 19 % of its poultry and 20 % of its sugar beet , not to mention 90 % of its ornamental and flower . I mention that last section because horticulture — the ornamental sector — be an important employer in my constituency . by the way , Lincolnshire , as hon . friend from further north in the county will know , also process 70 % of the UK ' s fish . Horticulture and potato crop use 6 % of the farm area in great Lincolnshire , and Lincolnshire have a total agricultural output of more than £ 2 billion , represent 12 % of England ' s total agricultural output . the critical point in all this be the quality of the land . again , it will not have escape the notice of the House that much of that land be alluvial . the silt , and the peat far inland , make it prime grow land . Grade 1 , 2 or 3a land predominate in the Fens . other Lincolnshire colleague in the House tonight will recognise why that matter so much not only to the local economy and to local society , but to the national interest . food security be not merely an indulgence ; it be critically important to the common good . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for secure this important debate and for be such an eloquent champion on the issue of food security . my constituency , like his , have a large rural community , and when I speak to farmer it be clear that food security be national security . the previous Government do a great deal on this issue , from the farm to fork summit to the food security index . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to see more from this Government on food security — for instance , legally bind food security target ? with the perception for which my hon . friend be already become know in the House , she anticipate the next part of my peroration . she represent an area that I know well ; it be glorious , and I know now too that it have a glorious new Member of Parliament . the point she highlight be that over recent event , particularly the pandemic and the war in Europe , food security have go from be a marginal matter — one that people like I raise regularly , but that be see as rather self - indulgent , because people know I represent an area of the kind I describe and they feel I be merely champion those domestic interest — to a matter that go well beyond the domestic to one of profound national importance . recent event have show we the salience of economic resilience . we need to be sure that not only in time of crisis , but in other time , we can withstand the shock that be the inevitable consequence of human circumstance and human frailty . make our country more resilient in those circumstance have become a national imperative . I be delighted to say that , in what I hope we can all agree be a post - liberal age , the issue of food security , far from be marginal , have become mainstream . the Minister be an old parliamentary friend , have shadow I — with great style , if I may say so — when I be a Transport Minister . I happen to know that he share my view about salience ; I therefore anticipate his response with enthusiasm border on glee . will my right hon . friend undertake to continue to share his insight into food security with the Labour party , which have no particular history in that respect ? indeed , its Front - Bench team consist of a Secretary of State from Croydon , a Minister of State from Cambridge and a couple of other from Hull and Coventry . they know little of country way ; they know little of the importance of food security . I hope that my right hon . friend , in his charming and constructive way , will ensure that the Labour party , and particularly its Ministers , learn from his great knowledge . I will hear nothing negative say about Cambridge , give my connection with King ' s College ; I have never knowingly be to Croydon , so I can not comment on it . what be certainly true be that this go beyond party politic . my right hon . friend be right to emphasise that any responsible Government would recognise that the salience of the matter have change , as I have set out . we have be through some difficult time in recent year , and they have concentrate mind in a way that might not otherwise have happen . rise — I will happily give way so that the hon . Gentleman can make one of his rare intervention in the House . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on secure the debate . the issue that he have outline also apply in my constituency , where agriculture be really important : it create some 3 , 500 job in the factory . I live on a farm — I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers ' Union — and I well understand farming issue . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that the strategy that he hope to see here at Westminster must encompass all the region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? if we work together with Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , we can make a food strategy that work for we all . do he agree that that be the good way forward ? this be a kingdom - wide priority , as I have make clear , so the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the issue in his part of our United Kingdom . however , I will return to Lincolnshire , if I may . over 90 % of fen farmland be grade 1 or 2 quality . that be interesting in itself , give that grade 1 and 2 cover about 21 % of all farmland nationally , while grade 3a cover a further 21 % . disturbingly , since 2010 my region have lose 3 , 232 hectare of good and most versatile farmland — the great absolute loss within a single region . worse still , the county that I represent be be target for large - scale development , which be invidious in the light of my point that the common good and the national interest be serve by protect our food security . in Lincolnshire alone there be currently application for large - scale solar development equivalent to the size of 62 Hyde Parks , total 9 , 109 hectare or 1 . 3 % of the total land across the county . rise — I know that some of those propose development be in the constituency of my hon . friend , to whom I be happy to give way . in set out our concern , my right hon . friend speak not just for South Holland and the Deepings , but for the whole of Lincolnshire . just before the general election , a write ministerial statement set out several provision and thought about the problem that he describe . it specifically mention Lincolnshire and the issue of geographical clustering . do he share my disappointment that the new Labour Government have not commit to those provision and those statement ? I anticipate disappointment , but I would not go so far as to say I share it . my hon . friend have be a resolute champion for his constituent in respect of both food security and resisting development that they simply do not want . if we believe in the devolution of power and in empower community to have a great say in their future , we can not simultaneously snuff they out when they disagree with Government priority — ignore they and disregard their perfectly proper concern . that be something that my hon . friend would never do . where I disagree with he be that I have hope . there be those who will say that the new Minister be not up to the job , but I do not agree : I have work with he previously , and I know that he be a diligent and decent man who will take these matter very seriously . I would not want to entirely write off the prospect that we will make an argument that be sufficiently persuasive to affect Government policy , even if we can not change it entirely . do my right hon . friend agree that in a situation where there be compete priority between environmental stewardship , food production and house building , there need to be clarity from the Government about how they evaluate and prioritise the relative distribution of the high - quality land that my right hon . friend have speak about ? without some real tooth around what food security mean through national security legislation , there be a wide range of interpretation that leave the cause he be speak to in a vulnerable position . this be why the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) be so powerful , because , as my right hon . friend have just say , there be compete imperative . energy security and food security must not be allow to contradict one another ; both can be pursue with the right approach and with a sensitive treatment of where different application be locate . my argument tonight be that that sensitivity — that precision — be not currently prevail . indeed , the scale of the application we be talk about in Lincolnshire alone be over 2 , 000 acre in some case , eat up vast swathe of highly productive agricultural land . once that land be eat up , one suspect it will never return to agricultural production . there be a myth about wind turbine . those who have be in this House for a long time and those who follow my career even before they become member of this House , as I know many do , will remember that I have be campaign against onshore wind since the time I get to this place . that be not only because of the aesthetic of onshore wind — as all man and woman of taste would acknowledge , they be grim — but because the concrete use to anchor the wind turbine will never leave the ground , even when they have cease to serve their purpose . nobody seriously believe that there will be a commercial interest in remove that concrete , which will fill valuable grow land — spoil the soil , if I can turn a phrase that might last and make an impression on you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and on other too . the issue be the Government take forward their priority in a way that be consistent but , as I say before , also sensitive to the imperative of food security alongside that of energy security . there be 14 solar application in Lincolnshire constituency that be nationally significant infrastructure project — by definition , those be large project . in other word , more than 50 % of nationally propose solar plant be in Lincolnshire , Leicestershire or Rutland , which can not be sensible . of course we should be pursue renewable technology , but surely solar belong on building . every large commercial building , every warehouse — they be spring up everywhere — every office block and many more house could accommodate solar panel and deliver solar power , yet we be allow developer to make application on the well grow land in our country , often for no well reason than their own self - interest . I can not accept that this Minister believe in that , or that he be go to allow it . when he respond , I hope he will say that he will not . there be another threat face my constituency , and it have an effect on food security too . that be the immense number of pylon that be propose — 87 mile - worth of huge pylon , along the whole of the east coast , neither want nor need by local people . I say " not want " for self - evident reason , but they be not need , either , because there be well way of transmit power . as Lincolnshire county council have argue , the offshore grid be a much more suitable way of transmit power . pylon be yesterday ' s technology , yet we face the prospect of they fill the big sky of Lincolnshire . we either care about the glory of our landscape or we be careless of it . rise — I know that my hon . friend care about it deeply . on pylon , my right hon . friend will perhaps recall that on the final day before the election , I hold an Adjournment debate on National Grid ' s Grimsby to Walpole proposal , and the then Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , Justin Tomlinson , say he would like to see a review . do my right hon . friend share my hope that the new Government will follow that decision and instigate a review ? I be in the Chamber when my hon . friend hold that debate ; I rush there when I see his name on the screen , as I so often do . he be right to highlight the National Grid decision - make process , and to play his part in that discussion , as have I and other member , include my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne . I be more hopeful than many that we can persuade National Grid and Ministers to look at other option . undergrounding be a possibility in the fen , for example , where tall structure have a disproportionate impact on the landscape , but as I say , I think the offshore grid propose by the county council be perhaps the good way forward . the last government publish for the first time in 2021 a UK food security report ; I hope that this Government will take forward that type of work on a non - partisan basis . they commit to assess our food security at least every three year , and host the Farm to fork summit in 2023 . I hope that this Government will continue in that vein . the public procurement of UK food be also a press priority . I have never really think that any Government of any colour — and I have be in quite a number of they — really get the issue of public procurement right . I be always tell not to say this with civil servant in earshot , because it be like speak in front of the child , in a way , and it be rather rude , and I have some very good civil servant , but I always feel that civil servant be put impediment in the way of our use procurement as a tool to deliver national priority . procurement could be use more intelligently to bring about well end ; food procurement be a really good example of that . why on earth be public body not prioritise british food ? why be it that any number of public sector organisation , from the health service to the prison , from school to this place and local authority , be not buy british ? surely we should be buy British to support our country and the job that go with food production . I do hope that my " Backing Britain , buy british " campaign will gain support across the Chamber , and when I produce the badge , which will be come out shortly , I will ask the Minister to wear one with pride . rise — I see that the hon . Gentleman be gag for a bite already . I give way to he . last week I be privileged to attend the Royal Welsh show in my constituency of Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe , one of the big constituency in England and Wales . I speak to many farmer , and top of their list of concern be the power imbalance between producer and retailer . will the right hon . Gentleman agree with the Lib Dem manifesto , which call for a strengthening of the Groceries Code Adjudicator to ensure fairness in the supply chain , thereby protect producer and guarantee food security ? I do not make a habit of say kind thing about liberal of any description , but I be go to say something quite kind to the hon . gentleman because he be right to draw attention to that code . when I be a Minister in the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy , as it be , I be instrumental in argue the case for the Groceries Code Adjudicator . I meet the first adjudicator and bring the second , the current incumbent , to my constituency to meet a group of farmer and grower during the last Parliament . the hon . Gentleman be right about the strength of that role , which just prove something that not everyone here will know : even Liberal Democrats sometimes get it right . in summary , I believe that now be the time for food security . now be the time , build on the last government ' s begin — it be a belate beginning — to make food security a central tenet of the new Government ' s priority . I know the Minister enjoy good relation with farmer and grower during his period as a shadow Minister — that have be report to I by my constituent and other — and he will have hear this argument make by they , and not only by we representative in this place . it be really of vital importance , in the national interest and for the common good that we no long allow our valuable agricultural land to be use for all kind of other purpose , and so compromise this country ' s food security , make we more dependent on import , more vulnerable , increase emission , increase food mile and damage local economy . that be not the way forward . let we make food security matter . I call the Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and it be very good to see you in your place . I thank the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) not only for his very kind word and warm welcome , but for his customarily thoughtful speech , and not least his very comprehensive account of his wonderful county of Lincolnshire and the huge contribution that it make to our food production . I also thank the other hon . member who make very thoughtful contribution to the debate . I can not tell the House how delighted I be to stand at the Dispatch Box on the Government side of the Chamber for the first time as Minister for food security and rural affair . the very title be a clear statement of this Government ' s commitment to rural area , and as have be say , this Government absolutely recognise that food security be national security . that be why we need a resilient , secure and healthy food system that work with nature , but also support british farmer . this Government be offer a new deal for farmer to boost rural economic growth and strengthen Britain ' s food security , and we will set out more detail in due course . frankly , climate change be one of the most significant threat to our food security . we have see it this year in the extreme weather event that farmer be have to deal with . it be absolutely the case that take the difficult decision now to address climate change will enhance , rather than threaten , our food security . we have to face up to the challenge of an energy transition to achieve that , and in do so must plan how we will use land in this country to ensure a proper balance between food security , restore and preserving nature , and clean energy . I be interested to hear the observation from Opposition Members after their 14 year of opportunity to do the thing that they be now keen to do , but we will pick up on many of their suggestion . certainly one of the key one will be to publish a land use framework ; that be promise by the previous Government , but there be many delay , and we be now pick that up . it will work in tandem with our spatial energy plan . I can assure the House that community will quite rightly continue to have a say on proposal for their area . it be important for this Government that where community host clean energy infrastructure , they should directly benefit from it . however , we will not get into a position where the clean energy that we need do not get build and the british people end up pay the price . credible external estimate suggest that ground - mount solar use just 0 . 1 % of our land in 2022 . the big threat to nature , food security and our rural community be not solar panel or onshore wind ; it be the major climate crisis , which itself threaten our good farmland , food production and , indeed , the livelihood of farmer . the Government will absolutely proceed on the basis not of hearsay and conjecture , but of evidence . one of the Government ' s five mission , which I be sure people have hear much about , be our commitment to make Britain a clean energy superpower . that be part of a wide ambition to deliver on exist net zero emission target . farming have a big role to play in contribute to net zero ; 70 % or so of UK land be use for agriculture , and farmer be custodian of the natural environment . they absolutely work hard to manage their land responsibly while provide the food we all need . I be glad that there be now consensus around the need for farmer to produce food . there be a curious period a few year ago when it seem as though food production have somehow be forget . I can see the right hon . member for South Holland and the deeping nod wisely because he know to what I refer , and I be pleased that we have all move on and can agree on the notion that food production be so important . the previous Government , albeit belatedly , change plan guidance to give additional protection to grade 1 , 2 and 3a land of the kind that I describe . furthermore , they say that when an energy developer express an interest in develop a site — of solar panel , for example — any assessment of the soil should be entirely independent . those seem to be perfectly reasonable policy — reasonable enough for a reasonable man to accept . the right hon . member tempt I into a level of detail that I be afraid I be not prepared to go into this evening . we be examine all these issue and will come to a consider position . we want to get the balance right and that be what we will do , because the transition to more climate - friendly practice do not need to come at the expense of food production or farm profitability . in our view , net zero can absolutely support economic growth , include by accelerate the uptake of innovative technology to increase productivity and efficiency in the agriculture sector . that , in turn , will support net zero food production , the efficient use of land and nature recovery . our intention be to work closely on that necessary transition with not just the farming industry , but all stakeholder involve . we will work with farmer to ensure that we avoid impose unnecessary cost , and — this , I hope , will be welcome to many in the sector — we absolutely guarantee that we will protect farmer from be undercut in trade deal . the right hon . member , as I rather anticipate , mention solar in particular . as with all major infrastructure project , there be a rigorous application process , and food production be rightly consider in it . I point hon . member to the decision letter on these solar project , which be available on the Planning Inspectorate website . that be the normal procedure in planning decision . all the documentation will be find there , not just the final decision letter . I hope that make it clear that all objection , relevant evidence and point raise throughout the planning inquiry be address and give weight in come to a planning decision . I appreciate that the decision letter be a long , complex document , as indeed it should be , give the important issue raise . there be a limit to what I can say , as I be bind by the planning propriety guidance , which be clear that during the legal challenge period , plan Ministers and official can not comment on the decision , summarise it or interpret it . do the Minister see any merit in legislate for a food security target ? that be under consideration , and we will come back to that in due course . I note that , where appropriate , solar project can be design to enable continue livestock grazing . there be also a science of agrivoltaic develop , in which solar be integrate with arable farming in innovative way . solar energy can be an important way for farmer to increase their revenue from land less suited to high - value crop production . there be also evidence that solar can improve biodiversity . we recognise that , sadly , confidence among farmer be at a record low , but this Government want to change that . we look forward to work closely with farmer to strengthen food security , progress the energy transition and boost rural economic growth . I thank everyone who have contribute to an interesting and informed debate . as ever , most importantly , I thank the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings , and not just for secure the debate today . I be sure the debate will continue , and I look forward to conduct it in the same constructive manner in which we have start it tonight . question put and agree to . House adjourn .