Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Vaccine Damage Payment Scheme what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the vaccine damage payment scheme . I reiterate my deep sympathy to all those who have experience harm follow vaccination and to their family . I recognise many of the concern that campaigner have raise regard the vaccine damage payment scheme . their input will shape our ongoing consideration of reform to the scheme and I will keep Parliament update as appropriate . my constituent Kelly Hatfield sadly lose her father Ken Purnell as a result of the covid - 19 vaccination . the family receive a vaccine damage payment , yet the sum , which have not increase since 2007 , fall short of the loss , trauma and long - term financial impact on these family . will the Minister explain why that one - off payment have not be inflation - adjust and will she commit to review its adequacy and fairness ? the vaccine damage payment scheme be not a compensation scheme but a one - off payment . it be important to state that . as I have say , we recognise that there be concern , which campaigner have raise , and their input be shape our ongoing consideration of reform to the scheme . all vaccine in the UK be authorise by the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , which be an independent body recognise globally for its high safety standard . this Labour Government base our decision on scientific fact , unlike Reform , which have still not apologise for platforme dangerous anti - vax conspiracy theory . I can only assume that it be less interested in protect people than it be in alarm folk for political advantage . NHS trust : performance what step he be take to help improve the performance of the most underperforming NHS trust . this Government have invest an extra £ 26 billion in the NHS , deliver 5 million more appointment in our first year and cut waiting list by more than 200 , 000 . we be also tackle the NHS postcode lottery . patient should not have to wait long for bad care because of where they live . our new NHS league table shine a light on the poor performer so they receive the extra support and accountability need to turn they around . the good leader be be send into the most challenge trust to turn they around , fail manager will have their pay dock and persistent failure will lead to restriction on board , as we see in Leeds this week . we will not tolerate failure . in Telford and wide Shropshire , we know that the NHS have an absolute mountain to climb after year of underperformance . we have begin that journey with fall waiting time , increase Government investment and plan for Telford ' s first ever cancer treatment unit . will the Secretary of State ensure that trust that show sign of improvement be back to catch up with the rest and continue their improvement , particularly with investment in technology , research and infrastructure ? absolutely . my hon . friend deserve real credit for championing Telford and Shropshire and help to get the trust the investment it need . he be right that local service have not be good enough for a number of year . we will not turn a blind eye to that failure ; we will do something about it . there be a long way to go , but we have already deliver an extra 94 , 000 appointment and cut waiting list by over 14 , 000 at his local trust since the general election — so a lot do , but lot more to do . I see the Health Secretary be have a bust - up with the Chancellor over who pay his £ 1 . 3 billion redundancy bill for break up NHS England . will he guarantee that , once he have resolve his difference with the Chancellor , not a single penny will be take from deliver frontline health and social care service or from underperform NHS trust to pay for make staff redundant ? the hon . Gentleman should not believe everything he read in the newspaper . I make no apology for try to cut unnecessary bureaucracy in large national organisation to redeploy saving to frontline service . his government really should have take a leaf out of our book . the Secretary of State need look no far than Homerton university hospital in Hackney for good performance : it have manage to increase productivity by over 11 % . what be he do to support great leader who deliver great progress and to make sure that they have the funding they need to continue with that ? I be delighted to meet my hon . friend only recently to hear about the really impressive productivity gain be make at her local trust . I be keen to learn more . we need to incentivise and reward leader for that kind of outstanding performance and we also need to get some of that good practice to some of our poor performing trust . Oxford university hospital trust be one of just three trust that do not provide givinostat for Duchenne through the early access programme . last week , I attend a roundtable at which one of my constituent , Alex , advocate on behalf of his son , Ben , who be not get the treatment . we discuss lesson learn from the early access programme . will the Secretary of State meet I , Duchenne UK and the all - party parliamentary group on access to medicine and medical device so that we can share those lesson with he ? I have have the privilege of meet some of the campaigner , and particularly the young people affect by that cruel condition , and I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s frustration . I know that the medication be be put through the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence process , and I hope that that will deliver a positive outcome . I would be delighted to keep he apprise of progress . can I just suggest to Members that their supplementary question should relate to the tabled question ? that would be helpful . I call the shadow Minister . with report of over £ 1 billion in cost for integrate care board redundancy and the chief executive officer of NHS England warning that service could have to move to plan b , could the Secretary of State set out what plan b be ? we be absolutely committed to deliver the transformation that we have outline , and we be work with ICB leader and NHS leader to do that in a timely way . those saving will deliver well value for money and enable we to redeploy resource to the frontline where they belong . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer , but waiting list have rise for three successive month now , doctor be on strike , GPs be in formal dispute with the Government , and the icb be cut 50 % of their staff and do not have £ 1 billion to pay for it , all while the NHS 10 - year plan have be publish but with no delivery chapter . when will the Secretary of State come to the House with the delivery plan for the NHS 10 - year plan ? not only have the Conservatives fail to get in the news , but they have clearly not be read it either . there have be no doctor strike in the NHS since before the summer , and we have sit down with resident doctor and their new leadership to try to avert future strike action . the hon . Gentleman be right to point out that the action take by the previous committee — unnecessary and irresponsible as it be — have impact on waiting list in the last few month , as have high level of demand than anticipate . I say that by way of explanation , by the way , not by way of excuse . I be determined to make sure that we hit our target , as outline in the Government ' s plan for change , and I think he will find that in the come month we will be back on track and well on course to achieve something that the Conservatives fail to do when they have the chance . maternity and Neonatal Care what step his Department be take to improve maternity and neonatal care . I be deeply concerned by the state of maternity care that we inherit in the NHS . that be why I have ask Baroness Amos to chair an independent investigation into NHS maternity and neonatal service . family deserve truth and justice , there must be accountability for failing , and service must improve . I be commit to do whatever it take to provide patient and baby with safe , comfortable and dignified care . I should also inform the House that this week I have announce an inquiry into failing at the Leeds teach hospital trust . I be work with the family affect to agree on a chair and term of reference , and I will keep the House update on next step . pregnancy can be a worrying time for any expectant parent , and know they can access their gp to see a person face to face be hugely important . that be deny to my constituent , Hayley Johnson , who sadly go on to lose her baby , Evelyn , when she be deliver in an emergency at 26 week and six day due to a huge misdiagnosis give over the phone . with regard to maternity support specifically , what be the Minister do to ensure that excellent maternity care be deliver in local community so that that never happen to another family , and that when the very bad do happen and parent be suffer the loss of a baby , the support also extend to bereavement counselling ? I thank my hon . friend for the work she be do to campaign for well support in this space and for raise these tragic case , not just today but in her powerful contribution to last week ' s debate . she be right to say that GPs be critical for support woman during pregnancy , provide compassionate physical and mental health care and signpost relevant service , which be why continuity be important . I be happy to report to she that , in term of mental health and bereavement support , a record number of woman access a specialist community perinatal mental health service or maternal mental health service in the 12 month to July 2025 , but clearly there be much more to do . we have announce a £ 36 . 5 million package for bespoke perinatal mental health and parent infant relationship support as part of the continuation of the family hub and start for life programme , but as we hear in last week ' s debate , although a lot have be do , there be so much more to do . safe maternity care depend on adequate staffing , and we on these Benches have be call for well recruitment and retention of staff in woman ' s health service for a long time now . can the Secretary of State outline what specific measure the Government be take to address the shortage of midwife and specialist neonatal nurse across England ? we need to make sure that there be well staffing and that we have the right people in the right place . I should just caution the House , though , because in recent year there have be an increase in staffing but not a corresponding increase in the quality of care , so we have to make sure we be look at this issue in a nuanced way . it be about have the right staff in the right place at the right time to deliver safe maternity and perinatal service , and that be exactly what we will do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . our maternity ward be in a state of crisis , with death and injury rise at an alarming rate . sadly , this issue be not confine to Shropshire , and there have be a steady drumbeat of maternity scandal , with review after review find consistent failing across the NHS . can the Secretary of State explain to I and the many mother I have meet who have face tragedy and unacceptable trauma why the Government be cut national service development funding — ringfence funding to improve maternity care — by more than 95 % and why the immediate and essential action from the ockenden review into the failing at Shrewsbury and Telford hospital trust , which be to be implement nationwide , be still not in place more than three year later ? we really be not ; what we have do be devolve funding and responsibility to local level , which we think be the right thing to do . if I may say so , it be quite irresponsible to suggest that maternity funding and funding for service have be cut in the way that the hon . Lady describe . I think it cause unnecessary concern . we be take into account the recommendation make by Donna Ockenden , as well as a wide range of other review and inquiry , as part of Baroness Amos ' s rapid investigation , because I , like the hon . member , want to see rapid improvement in maternity service across the country . child ' s Hospices : ringfence funding whether he have make an assessment of the potential merit of increase ringfenced nhs funding for child ' s hospice to £ 30 million by 2030 . child ' s hospice provide crucial support , but for too long they have face the cliff edge of annual funding cycle . I be really proud that we have provide certainty with a three - year funding settlement of £ 80 million , give child ' s hospice the stability and predictability they need to plan properly and focus on care for seriously ill child and their family and love one . I be sure that the hon . Member will join I in welcome the certainty that we have deliver for the sector . I absolutely welcome the Government ' s announcement last week that funding for child ' s hospice will be extend for the next three year and will rise in line with inflation . Julia ' s House be one such hospice that serve family in my constituency . however , child ' s hospice still face challenge in access funding from local NHS body and council , address workforce shortage and hold integrate care board to account for the way in which they commission child ' s palliative care , so what reassurance can the Minister give that child ' s hospice will benefit from sustainable financial support both now and in the future ? I be delighted that Julia ' s House hospice receive £ 525 , 000 from the allocation . I be sure that be very welcome to the staff and the family . it be also worth note that , of the £ 100 million allocation that we make to capital funding , £ 12 million go to child ' s hospice . that be an increase on top of what we have just be talk about . of course , there be challenging time for funding , but we have also provide the sector with a huge amount of certainty and stability . this funding be welcome , but hospice such as Mountbatten in my area be still make cut because of the budgetary choice that the Chancellor make and ICB practice . this be a multi - year funding settlement , but multi - year funding settlement need to be long . will the Minister commit to include all hospice in a long multi - year funding settlement for stability in the sector ? I find it quite extraordinary that Opposition Members come to this House and lecture we on the sustainability of funding , give the way in which they crash the economy and leave we in a dire fiscal position . I would have hope that the hon . Gentleman would welcome the fact that , rather than the annual funding cliff edge that they leave for vital child ' s hospice service , we have move to a three - year funding settlement . his criticism beggar belief . New Hospital Programme what progress his Department have make on the implementation of the new hospital programme . the Conservative Government ' s promise of 40 new hospital by 2030 be a fantasy — there be no funding beyond last March . in January , we publish a realistic plan that put the programme on a credible and sustainable footing . we be committed to deliver all the scheme in the programme and be move at pace with funding in place for design work , construction activity and business case development . the conservative still have not apologise for the appalling state that they leave our NHS in . Torbay hospital be the third old hospital in the United Kingdom . it have a tower block wreathe in scaffold to stop bit of it fall off rather than it be under repair , and it have sewage leak throughout . sadly , it need significant investment , which have be kick into the long grass . a senior manager describe the situation only this week as " dire " . will the Minister meet I and hospital representative to explore how we can achieve the investment to turn this round ? the hon . Member make an excellent point ; it be echo by Lord Darzi in his report about the state of our hospital , and I know many hon . member have similar problem . I have visit many such hospital and would be happy to discuss the matter with he far . I remind he that , of course , the Torbay and South Devon NHS foundation trust have be provide with £ 7 . 3 million from the estate safety fund for work at the hospital , and we be absolutely committed to ensure that it will be develop in line with the programme . NHS Reorganisation what recent progress he have make on reorganise the NHS . we be put the final nail in the coffin of the hon . member ' s party ' s disastrous Lansley 2012 reorganisation — so bad that it make I become an MP . we be abolish the world ' s big quango , NHS England , along with 200 other body . the question be : why do the Conservatives not do that when they have the chance ? yesterday I meet Lila , a sixth - form student at Coombe Dean school , who raise the issue of long waiting list for mental health service for child and young people across Devon . what action have be take as a result of the Government ' s policy of reorganise the NHS to reduce the unacceptable delay in mental health diagnosis and treatment for child and young people , particularly in constituency such as South West Devon ? all of we as constituency mp be fully aware of the state of mental health service , particularly for young people , which be why my hon . friend the Minister for Care be work at pace on our manifesto commitment to support young people , particularly through school . we also understand the difficulty that her ICB in particular have with its financial situation — something we be also target as part of our reform to ensure that icb develop service for local people in line with the expectation that we have set they . likewise , in York , child and adolescent mental health service be just not work for child , who be leave on waiting list often with no management or treatment . in order really to achieve reorganisation in our NHS , would our Government look at local authority commission mental health service , to deliver such service and to meet the holistic need of young child ' s development and mental health wellbeing ? again , I echo comment on the state of mental health service , as the hon . Member have do . as it say in our manifesto , we be commit to those 8 , 500 extra mental health support worker in local area such as hers . it be important that commissioner work closely with their local authority on mental health service , and I know my hon . friend the Minister for Care be ensure that that happen as part of the reform we be undertake . I call the shadow Minister . I be concerned that the disruption cause by an uncosted , unplanned simultaneous reorganisation of NHS England and the ICBs be affect patient care . before the summer , the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation recommend that the RSV vaccine should be give to those over 80 and those in adult care home . in July , I ask the Secretary of State to confirm that this vaccine will be available in time for the winter season , and he say , " I can certainly reassure the shadow Minister on this . " — [ Official Report , 22 July 2025 ; Vol . 771 , c . 677 . ] the winter vaccine programme start three week ago . why have he not deliver on his promise ? we have . as my right hon . friend have just say , we have deliver on that commitment . the hon . member talk about the reorganisation be a distraction . if her party have focus taxpayer ' money on patient service rather than ballooning bureaucracy , with cost increase both among provider and through icb , we would not have inherit the mess that we do , and would be able to roll out programme more effectively . we have commit to do that . I thank the hon . Lady for her answer , but I would like she to check and perhaps update the guidance for GPs and the website that continue to say that it be only available to 80 - year - old who turn 80 after 1 September 2024 , which be not all people over the age of 80 . reorganisation be affect delivery elsewhere , too . the Secretary of State also promise that the continue roll - out of fracture liaison service would be one of his first priority . how many new fracture liaison service have open since the general election ? on the hon . Lady ' s first point , this Government , unlike the previous Government , do believe in expert , and we follow the clinical advice that we be give . on her second point , as she be so keen on read our manifesto commitment , the commitment be to do that by 2030 . it be currently 2025 . our reform to icb and provider , bring NHS England inside the Department of Health and Social Care to make it more democratically accountable for taxpayer , will reverse the shocking increase in funding that the previous Government put into a leaky bucket . we be fix the foundation of the NHS . we be target resource at people in line with our 10 - year plan . wait time : Online Services what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of NHS online on wait time . the NHS online hospital will connect patient with clinician anywhere in England through the NHS app . it will deliver up to 8 . 5 million appointment in its first three year — four time more than the average NHS trust — finally bring the NHS into the digital age . we be cut waiting time and provide patient with more choice and convenience . the wellbeing of our nation ' s young people remain in crisis , with one in five have a probable mental health condition and the number be refer to emergency mental health care continue to rise . in community like mine in Croydon East , where young people be wait month and sometimes even year for help , family be desperate for support . how will NHS online help young people access the mental health support they need , and what impact will it have on reduce the waiting time for child and adolescent mental health service ? I thank my hon . friend for bring this crucial issue to light . early access to high - quality support be critical for young people struggle with their mental health . that be back by we with an extra £ 688 million this year . we be hire more staff , expand support team in school and boost support in new Young Futures hub so that child can get the good possible start in life . although initially not focus on CAMHS , the scope of the NHS online hospital be a personal priority for the Prime Minister and have the capacity to grow , and we will consider incorporate it when safely able to alongside other service . whatever the impact of these new online service , the Opposition Front - Bench team have draw attention to the fact that waiting list in England have rise for the last three month . I can inform the House this morning that waiting list in Scotland be come down . would the Minister like to explain why that be the case ? I be so glad the hon . Gentleman take the time to ask that question , because while we invest in digital service , Scotland and scottish patient be still wait for the most basic digital infrastructure . while we invest record amount in Scotland ' s budget , the SNP ' s excuse keep rise . what he need to answer be why scottish patient be live in a digital desert , while patient here in England be get more and more sophisticated NHS digital service . cancer Diagnoses what step his Department be take to reduce the time take for cancer diagnosis . this government be invest an extra £ 26 billion in the NHS , open up community diagnostic centre at evening and weekend and deliver 5 million more appointment to catch cancer early . we be make progress : 135 , 000 more patient have already have cancer diagnose or rule out within the 28 - day target compare with the previous year — a lot do , and a lot more to do . a local teacher go to her GP with clear symptom of a facial tumour but be tell it be simply the effect of age . it take almost two year to receive a confirm diagnosis , include eight month lose in the system after an urgent referral . do the Minister agree that reduce time for cancer diagnosis must start with strengthen system to support early recognition and follow - up , so that no one be leave wait ? I wish the Minister well with her own cancer battle and thank she for bravely share her experience of live with cancer . I thank my hon . friend for her question and her well wish . we be take cancer detection seriously in general practice , and there be work to do . it be why we have recently launch Jess ' s rule , which be a patient safety initiative that mean when patient return three time with worsen or undiagnosed symptom , GPs must reflect , review and rethink . that could include a second opinion , episodic continuity of care or order additional test . I wish her constituent the very good and offer she my sympathy in her diagnosis . the Government claim that they wish to reduce NHS waiting time , but I have write confirmation from the Government that they have slash funding for community diagnostic centre . the consequence of Labour ' s funding cut mean that brand new facility , such as those at Queen Mary ' s hospital in Sidcup , for which I secure £ 9 . 6 million of funding from the last Conservative Government , can now open only two day per week . will the Minister urgently review that funding cut , so that more patient in Bexley and across the UK can get their diagnostic quick ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , but I think he might be mistake . we be open more cdc than ever before — I have lose count of the amount of cdc we have be invite to open — and we be make sure that people have access to diagnostic in their community , from hospital to community , with the most access that there have be for some year . employer ' s National Insurance : GPs what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution on general practice . thank to the decision take by the Chancellor at the Budget , we be invest an extra £ 1 . 1 billion in general practice — the big increase in a decade . that funding have allow we to recruit an extra 2 , 000 GPs , agree a contract for the first time in four year , and introduce online access . do the hon . member welcome that investment , or would she cut it ? GPs surgery across the Weald of Kent , include in Woodchurch and Charing , tell I how much they struggle with rise staff cost , and the national insurance increase in last year ' s Budget put huge pressure on they . alongside the investment that the hon . Gentleman just mention , what discussion have he or his colleague from the Department of Health and Social Care have with Treasury colleague about protect GP partnership from further NI burden in the upcoming Budget ? again , I find it extraordinary that Conservative Members have the brass neck to ask those kind of question . they create the mess , and now they be criticise we — it be a bit like the arsonist heckle the firefighter . patient satisfaction in general practice have rise from 67 % last year to 75 % this year , and the proportion of patient report difficulty contact their practice have fall from 18 . 7 % in July 2024 to 10 . 6 % in May 2025 . we be just get start , and I do not hear the hon . Lady welcome the investment . Acute Myeloid Leukaemia what step his Department be take to support people with acute myeloid leukaemia . this Government be commit to improve survival for blood cancer , include acute myeloid leukaemia . we be raise awareness , deliver more research , and improve early diagnosis . blood cancer be the third big cancer killer , and the fifth most common cancer in the UK . that be why we be committed to develop a national cancer plan , with patient at its heart , cover the cancer plan from referral and diagnosis to treatment and ongoing care . have consult with key stakeholder and patient group , I confirm that that plan will be publish early in the new year . I thank the Minister for her response . my constituent Ruth Wake , who live in Brewood , be tragically diagnose with acute myeloid leukaemia in January last year . she have go through chemotherapy and a stem cell transplant , and while she have make good process and be in remission , sadly the stem cell transplant have fail after nine and a half month . under the current rule , if it fail in under a year she can not have a second stem cell transplant . I know the pressure that the Minister be under in term of her time , but my constituent have so little time . could she look at this particular case , and also look at guideline from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence , which be write over 12 year ago ? science and treatment have move so rapidly , and I wonder if the Minister could look at both those point . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and offer my good wish to his constituent Ruth in her treatment . I thank he for bring her story to my attention . I really do appreciate — perhaps more than most — the urgency of the matter . although I be unable to comment on individual case , I understand that one of my ministerial colleague will be write to the right hon . Gentleman directly on this matter in the very near future . this week we learn about the incredible result of the Galleri trial , which allow the early identification of many tumour by look at dna circulate in the blood . indeed , I be a volunteer in this trial . will the Secretary of State join I in recognise the central importance of medical research ? absolutely . the new progress , particularly around circulate tumour DNA , be really interesting , and we be move forward with more investment in research so that we can bring forward more such treatment . Patient Access to gps what recent step he have take to increase access to GP appointment . what step his Department be take to improve patient access to GPs . we strengthen the NHS front door with £ 1 . 2 billion for general practice , the big cash increase in over a decade . we promise to recruit an extra 1 , 000 GPs in our first year — we recruit 2 , 000 . patient be now able to request appointment online , which be a huge step towards deliver our manifesto commitment to end the 8 am scramble . great Western Park have add 3 , 000 home to Didcot , in my Oxfordshire constituency , and Valley Park , which be under construction , will add 4 , 000 more . however , the new GP surgery promise in 2008 remain a barren patch of land and exist facility can not cope . the integrate care board be supportive , but progress have stall due to NHS England ' s involvement . do the Secretary of State agree with I that integrate care board should have the authority to direct primary care funding , and will he meet I to help to unblock the new gp surgery my constituent desperately need ? let I come back to the hon . Gentleman after I have find out what have go wrong in this case . as he point out , icb be responsible for commission , planning , secure and monitor GP service within their health system , through delegate responsibility from NHS England , and capital be allocate to icb on a basis that take account of annual population growth . I can understand his frustration and that of his constituent , so let I find out what have go wrong and come back to he . after 14 year of a Conservative Government , poor access to GPs be something that we have come to know well in certain area of my constituency of Sherwood Forest . in Hucknall , demand for GP appointment be overwhelming to the point that one practice have have to close its online system . promise of a super - healthcare system be make by the previous Government but never deliver . meanwhile , local Ashfield independent politician have disgracefully use this as a political football . do the Secretary of State agree with I that there have be far too much talk and not enough action , and that it be now time that both the integrate care board and Ashfield district council deliver on this ? it be of no surprise to I that my hon . friend raise yet another example of conservative broken promise , and the hot air that come from independent , who have all the luxury of be commentator but none of the responsibility of ever have to deliver anything . I would be happy to meet she to look into what have go wrong here . this have go on for far too many year , and I can well understand her frustration . public - private Partnerships what step he be take to ensure that frontline NHS service be support follow the potential introduction of new public - private partnership contract . let I be clear : this Government will always protect the NHS and have the service free at the point of use for everyone . this Government be determined to shift health out of hospital and into the community , as set out in the 10 - year plan , and neighbourhood health service will be fundamental to deliver this shift , so it be right that we look at a range of option to provide the good care for people across the country . let I reassure hon . member that all proposal be subject to robust , value - for - money assessment to ensure taxpayer get the good possible return on investment in our health service . may I begin by congratulate the Secretary of State on his action in try to repair our cherished NHS follow 14 year of Tory destruction ? we must learn from past mistake . the private finance initiative be a huge , expensive mistake — an absolute disaster — with £ 80 billion repay for an investment of £ 13 billion . will the Minister reassure the House that the lesson of PFI have be well learn , and that they be well and truly in the past and in the dustbin ? I thank my hon . friend for his word of encouragement and congratulation . I assure he that lesson have be learn ; we will ensure value for taxpayer ' money in all future proposal . I meet regularly with GPs in my constituency , and they have highlight that they do not yet have clarity or certainty about the role and resource that they will have in the roll - out of service from hospital to community and neighbourhood health service . will the Minister meet I to provide that clarity to our GPs and assure they that they will be at the table during that roll - out ? it be absolutely the role of the hon . Lady ' s local integrate care board to ensure that it involve all partner , particularly primary care , in the exciting roll - out of neighbourhood health service , which I think they welcome . I be happy to discuss that far with she . Health Service Spending what step his Department be take to tackle wasteful spending in the health service . as well as the record investment that we put into the NHS , we be ensure that we get a well bang for the taxpayer ' s buck . under the Conservatives , for example , the NHS be pay £ 3 billion to recruitment firm for agency shift . we have cut agency spending by a third and be abolish it altogether , with the saving reinveste in staff pay and treatment for patient . that be just one example of how our reform agenda be good for patient and for taxpayer . private finance initiative deal do huge damage to NHS budget . despite receive just £ 13 billion in asset , NHS trust be saddle with more than £ 80 billion in PFI debt — most of that be still be pay back . we have even see some hospital spend more on PFI debt than on medicine . if they really want to cut out waste and avoid a PFI - style disaster 2 . 0 , will the Government rule out use private finance for the new network of new NHS clinic , as have be float ? as I answer in response to my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , we will absolutely ensure that we learn the lesson of the last Government ' s failure . do the Minister agree that it be completely wasteful to make cancer patient who need to go for chemotherapy in Carlisle on a Wednesday but who live in , say , Kirkby Stephen to have to travel to Carlisle on the day or on the day before to get their blood take ? why be that ? because the local hospital will no long fund the local gp surgery in Kirkby Stephen or Appleby to take their blood there . be it not wrong that those GP surgery can no long provide secondary healthcare blood service in their own setting in people ' s own community ? as he often do , the hon . Gentleman highlight in his own very rural constituency some of the fundamental problem at the heart of our NHS . that be why we be reform it , ensure that we move hospital service from hospital into the community and develop neighbourhood health service . we be also look at the financial flow in the system that lead to these sort of perverse incentive and funding arrangement , which do damage to his constituent , as they do to many other and to rural and coastal community . that be why we highlight that in the 10 - year plan . we need to see the end of such example . NHS Menopause Treatment what step he be take to ensure that woman have access to menopause treatment on the NHS . we have already make excellent progress , turn commitment in the woman ' s health strategy into tangible action . we be deliver 5 . 2 million extra appointment , which include tackle gynaecology waiting list . we know , though , that more need to be do for woman experience the menopause and on improve awareness and access to treatment . Menopause Mandate have long campaign , alongside many member in this House , for the menopause to be include in the NHS health check . I hope to be able to say more soon , but rest assure that we have hear those call . early this year , a constituent come to speak to I about shortage of the one hormone replacement therapy drug that be work for she after year of misdiagnose and ineffective treatment . she tell I that GPs have very low awareness of menopause and often recommend alternative that cause adverse reaction , leave she and many other woman pay for private advice and treatment and take time off work . will the Minister update the House on what the Department be do to address HRT shortage and to improve training for GPs so that million of woman get the support that they need ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight this crucial issue . the majority of the more than 70 HRT product be in good supply , but we be aware of shortage affect certain estradiol patch , and we be engage with supplier to expedite delivery wherever we can . we have issue guidance to healthcare professional under the serious shortage protocol methodology to enable community pharmacist to supply alternative where appropriate . furthermore , we be commit to fund research into woman ' s health , and we have invest approximately £ 5 million through the National Institute for Health and Care Research scheme into menopause research , include study for new treatment to improve outcome for woman experience the menopause . it be be report in the press this week that woman be be exploit by a menopause " gold rush " , enable by tech giant such as Instagram . what step can be take to ensure that woman have access to the very good of information and that misinformation on the internet be bring under control ? I thank the hon . Lady for highlight this issue . the good way to do that be to beef up NHS digital service , as we be do to the NHS digital app , so that woman and all patient can have confidence in the advice that they receive . virtual Wards what step he have take to support the virtual ward programme . I welcome the Chair of the Select Committee back from parental leave and greatly look forward to work with she again . virtual ward allow patient to get hospital - level care in the comfort of their own home , speed up their recovery while free up hospital bed for the patient who need they most . we be roll out virtual ward far , so that they become the norm for manage many condition at home . early this year , I visit the " hospital at home " team at the John Radcliffe hospital , who run an incredible virtual ward . I see they deliver care to Mavis , who be 91 . she be so emotional and grateful for the work they do — we all end up in tear . imagine my disappointment that while I be off , we get an email from the team say that the funding for that incredible service be no long there and that they face closure . this be an example of the good of the NHS . we want it roll out to the rest , but if the funding be not there for these nascent service to find their footing , how can we ensure that good practice can be spread across the whole of Oxfordshire and beyond ? the hon . Lady make a very valid point : this be about the shift from hospital to community , which we have to drive forward . in September 2025 , 12 , 522 virtual ward bed be available — an increase from 12 , 497 in September 2024 . slowly but surely , we be increase the number of virtual ward bed and the capability of virtual ward , but there be still a long way to go . I absolutely accept the point that the hon . Lady make . hospital to Community Care what step he be take to transfer care from hospital into the community . the Darzi investigation find that NHS resource be too focused on hospital at the expense of community care . our reform will turn the NHS into more of a neighbourhood health service . we have already recruit an extra 2 , 000 more gps , we be roll out 700 , 000 extra dental appointment , and we have agree a new contract of investment and reform for community pharmacy . as part of our 10 - year plan , we will be roll out neighbourhood health centre across the country , start with the place that be in the great need . I thank my hon . friend for his answer , and for the brilliant work that the whole team be do to put the NHS 10 - year plan into action . transfer care into the community will give many more patient quick and easy access to specialist care when they need it . however , access to Parkinson ' s nurse — who be worth their weight in gold — remain deeply unequal . too often , patient be leave without nurse and have to travel a long way to see a specialist nurse . worse still , the few Parkinson ' s nurse who be available be predominantly fund by Parkinson ' s UK . can the Minister set out what step be be take to increase equitable access to Parkinson ' s nurse across the country ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and congratulate he on his work campaign on this issue . regular support and advice from a Parkinson ' s disease nurse specialist be highlight as a key intervention in the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline on Parkinson ' s disease in adult . the forthcoming 10 - year workforce plan will support the 10 - year health plan by address workforce shortage and skill gap . this will be crucial to deliver quality and accessible care for those with Parkinson ' s . ironically , get care out of hospital and into the community very much depend on a function hospital . last month , I meet the group chief executive officer of Hull University teaching hospital NHS trust , follow news that it have be place in segment 4 of the NHS acute trust league table . she acknowledge the urgent need for improvement and express clear ambition for change , but she will not be able to deliver the transformation of that important hospital alone . could I meet the Secretary of State or Ministers to discuss what more can be do to support that hospital on its road to transformation and improvement ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I be not familiar with the detail of that case , but if he would not mind write to I , I would be very happy to take that issue forward . he be right that there be a mountain to climb , not least because of the mess that be leave to we by the previous Government , but we be climb that mountain step by step . the 10 - year plan be a big step in the right direction ; it be now all about delivery , and that be what we be do every day . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since I last answer question in this House , the Government have announce : half a billion pound for a fair pay agreement for care worker ; NHS Online , the first ever online - only hospital trust ; and £ 80 million for child ' s hospice . we have announce an independent inquiry into maternity service in Leeds , introduce Jess ' s rule , implement online request for GP appointment , open the 100th community diagnostic centre , make the chickenpox vaccine available on the NHS , and publish NHS league table — a lot do ; a lot more to do . we promise 2 million more appointment , and we have deliver 5 million , along with 2 , 000 extra GPs , 6 , 500 more mental health worker , 7 , 000 more doctor , and 13 , 000 more nurse and midwife . the cancer diagnosis standard have be meet , GP satisfaction be up and waiting list be down . the brand - new Midland Metropolitan University hospital have open in my constituency . do the Secretary of State agree that this be the difference that a Labour Government make , and that we be only just get start ? why stop there ? we have 15 , 000 more home adaptation for disabled people through the disabled facility grant and 135 , 000 more suspect cancer patient receive a diagnosis on time . we have more than 200 , 000 case off the waiting list , £ 500 million for the first ever fair pay agreement for care worker and the big uplift in carer ' s allowance for a generation . the Tories do not do it , and Reform would undo it . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . I call the shadow Secretary of State . first , it be great to be in this new role . I genuinely want to be part of a constructive opposition , but equally I want to do my role in hold this government to account . I note the lack of detail in the Secretary of State ' s answer on reorganisation , so can I ask the basic again ? how many people will be make redundant , what will it cost and who be pay ? I welcome the shadow Secretary of State to his place . it be good to hear from the Conservative Front Benchers ; I have almost forget they exist . the Conservatives create a complex web of bureaucracy . it be a bit rich to complain we be not abolish their creation quickly enough . we have have a number of expression of interest in voluntary redundancy across my Department , NHS England and the integrated care board , and we be work through that as we speak . again , the Secretary of State can not answer . his answer be too vague . he be very good at make promise , but the fact be that he be preside over a reorganisation that have stall , create uncertainty for staff . waiting list be up 50 , 000 in the past three month , hospice be in crisis because of national insurance contribution rise , and we have have strike again — despite big pay rise — with the threat of more . if the Secretary of State want the leadership in the future , perhaps he should show leadership in the NHS now , and tell we not just the plan , but when he will give the detail and how he will deliver on his promise to patient . waiting list be low now than when Labour take office , and that be in stark contrast with the record of the Government in which the shadow Secretary of State serve ; waiting list increase every single year they be in charge . this be the first year in 15 that waiting list have fall . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . we be only just get start . as for leadership change , we all know why they be call the Leader of the Opposition " Kemi - Kaze " . a Channel 4 " Dispatches " documentary recently go undercover at an ambulance centre in my constituency of Gillingham and Rainham . it show exhausted staff work under difficult circumstance — the result of year of Tory neglect and mismanagement of our NHS . do my right hon . friend agree that after the chaos under the last government , this Administration will put staff and patient first ? will the relevant Minister come to my constituency to meet healthcare provider and discuss our local challenge ? we know that there have be issue with the urgent emergency care response . we be absolutely committed to support ambulance trust to continually improve the patient experience . the urgent emergency care plan for 2025 - 26 be back by nearly £ 450 million of funding . I be happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . every year we come here to discuss the winter crisis in the NHS , but this summer see record wait at accident and emergency , with more than 74 , 000 12 - hour trolley wait in June and July . that use to be unheard of . with winter loom and the potential for the A & E permacrisis to be even bad this year , what package of emergency measure be the Secretary of State put in place to ensure that patient be not leave to suffer on trolley or bad in our hospital corridor this winter ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to point out that the NHS be already run hot ahead of winter . we bring forward our winter planning for this year to get ahead . we be make sure that all NHS trust and system have develop plan that have be test regionally . the flu vaccination programme be well under way , the autumn covid - 19 vaccination begin on 1 October , and we be drive improvement in urgent and emergency care . this will be a challenging winter — we be not complacent about that — but we be get the system ready for it . after year of watch dentist in Cumbria turn their back on the NHS contract and move those patient who can afford it to private plan , my constituency be now an NHS dental desert . can the Minister confirm when the Government will publish their response to the consultation on quality and payment reform , and tell we what we can expect to see in it ? as my hon . friend will know , the consultation close on 19 August . we be now consider the outcome , and expect to publish a response very shortly . these reform will improve support for patient with complex or urgent need by well incentivising dentist to deliver this care on the NHS . Moya Cole , in Heald Green , be a shine example of a hospice that do fantastic work in a very tough economic situation , but it should not have to rely on coffee morning and jumble sale to fund its most essential service . liberal Democrat research finding show that almost a half of hospice in the United Kingdom be plan cut this year . will the Government commit themselves to fund our hospice properly in the upcoming budget so that they do not need to cut the vital service that they provide ? I do not hear the hon . Gentleman welcome the fact that we provide £ 100 million — an unprecedented amount — in capital funding for hospice , and £ 26 million a year and £ 80 million over three year for child ' s hospice . we recognise that hospice benefit from be root in their community , with amazing charity and philanthropy support , but of course we know that the Government need to do their bit as well , and that be precisely what we be do . I be very pleased to visit Noah ' s Ark child ' s hospice in Barnet last week and to speak to the chief executive , who warmly welcome the stability and certainty that the three - year allocation have provide . after a decade of under - investment in our NHS under the Conservatives , I welcome the progress that have be make on reduce A & E waiting time under this government , but there be no immediate fix . just last month , a coffee shop at the William Harvey hospital in Ashford be convert into an emergency ward to treat a & E patient . will the Secretary of State visit the hospital to see the continue problem with corridor care , and will he update the House on what the Government be do to ensure that the hospital can manage winter pressure and maintain safe , high - quality care ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for bring this matter to the House ' s attention . it be appal for coffee shop to be commandeer as space for the care of patient , and we will not accept it . I be happy to look at the case that my hon . friend have mention . we will also be publish figure on corridor care so that we can hold the system to account , and the public can hold we to account , to improve the situation that we inherit . the Arthur Rank hospice in Cambridgeshire be lose £ 829 , 000 in NHS funding , which be force the closure of nine bed — 40 % of its capacity . do the Minister believe that die patient be care for well in overstretch hospital ward than in specialist hospice , and will he please not fob I off with talk of capital investment ? this be about operational cost . as I have point out , we be provide unprecedented level of funding for hospice , but there be clearly a challenging fiscal position . I note that in their manifesto the Liberal Democrats propose to spend only an extra £ 8 billion on health and care , whereas we have invest £ 26 billion . before call for more spending , they should tell we what they would cut . I welcome the change in the GP booking system , but in many case it be still very difficult to obtain a GP appointment on the Isle of Wight . a large factor in that be the difficulty of recruit GPs to the island . will the Minister assure I that he will investigate all option for improve GP recruitment to coastal , rural and island community , like mine ? through a £ 160 million investment in the additional role reimbursement scheme , we have recruit more than 2 , 000 new GPs nationwide , but we recognise the inequity in funding that can exacerbate regional inequality in access to service . I have launch a review of the GP funding formula to ensure that funding follow the need of the population . the National Institute for Health and Care Research have begin a review of the Carr - Hill funding formula , which will conclude in six month ' time . hinchingbrooke hospital be one of the few hospital in Cambridgeshire that be yet to have an electronic patient record system , and its current level of digital maturity be at the low end of the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society scale . hospital within the new hospital programme be require to be at level 5 on the HIMSS scale , in line with the national digital capability framework . what financial assistance will be give to North West Anglia NHS foundation trust to facilitate an investment case , so that the rebuilt Hinchingbrooke hospital have a modern and enterprise - wide electronic patient record system ? the hon . Gentleman draw to our attention the appalling state that the NHS be leave in by the previous Government . we be work at pace to introduce epr across the system . I be sure that Ministers would be happy to look at the case at his local hospital to clean up the mess that the conservative party leave behind . as a migraine sufferer , I be afflict about once a week by debilitate symptom , which always include partial blindness , and sometimes include numbness in my finger , nausea , brain fog , sensitivity to light and sound , a pound headache and even an inability to speak — heartbreake for a politician . I be very lucky , though , that my migraine generally only last half an hour ; other people ' s can be much bad and last day . what step be the Minister take to improve support for migraine sufferer like I ? at national level , a number of initiative support service improvement and well care for patient with migraine . the get it right First Time neurology programme publish a national specialty report that make several recommendation to improve recognition and diagnosis of migraine by GPs . additionally , the RightCare toolkit set out key priority for improve care for patient with migraine , include correct identification and diagnosis , and NHS England have establish a multi - year , clinically lead neurology transformation programme — so , lot . rise — Order . Minister , I like your style , but your answer be far too long for my health . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a serve Norfolk county councillor . it be two year since the Conservatives in Norfolk oversee the closure of two convalescence facility : Benjamin Court in Cromer and Grays Fair Court in Costessey , in the constituency of the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) . this be do without public consultation , and it have be meet with outcry from local resident . this short - sighted move will only worsen the backlog at local hospital and reduce option for my constituent who need extra support . will the Minister meet I and his hon . friend the Member for Norwich South to discuss how we can ensure that these vital convalescence facility will not be lose ? order . we need short question . I do not know the detail of that case , but if the hon . Gentleman write to I , I can certainly come back to he on it . that sound like a vital service that need to be protect . in the Secretary of State ' s list of what have happen since his last oral question , he fail to mention the appointment of our hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) as a Minister . he be particularly look at life science . without life science and drug trial , we will not see an improvement in outcome for rare cancer . can the Secretary of State make a statement on what will be do about rare cancer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to welcome my hon . friend the Minister to his place . I will be honest : in effect , he have be a Minister since we come into government . we very much welcome the work that he have be put in . we be determined to do more on rare cancer , work with my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . all the work that she be do , particularly on rare brain cancer , be much appreciated . Most young people refer to gender identity service be same - sex attract , neurodiverse and / or traumatise . look - after child be also over - represent in this cohort . be the Secretary of State really comfortable with child be give puberty blocker , which essentially chemically neuter they , for the purpose of the PATHWAYS clinical trial ? within day of take office , I uphold the judgment make by my predecessor . we need to tread carefully and be sensitive in this space . we need to take an evidence - base approach to trans healthcare in our country , and that be the approach that this Government will take . as you may be aware , Mr Speaker , Reform - lead Lancashire county council have open a consultation on the future of care home across Lancashire , include the proposal to close Woodlands care home in my constituency of Hyndburn . will the Minister join I in urge Lancashire county council not to take forward these proposal , to protect much - value local service , and to keep care close to the community and to the amazing staff who support our resident in Woodlands care home ? I absolutely agree . it have be very interesting to see that all the rhetoric of many Reform - lead council have come crash down as they face the reality of the situation . adult social care play an absolutely vital role in the shift from hospital to community , and I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the matter far . Alton and Petersfield hospital give excellent step - up , step - down and end - of - life care . the trust be introduce more home - base care , which be good , but it also propose close a ward in one of the community hospital . will the Minister ensure that there remain sufficient bed and sufficient capacity in our local community hospital for those patient who need they ? in September , Hampshire Hospitals NHS foundation trust report step - down intermediate care capacity as the primary reason for discharge , and at Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS trust , the discharge figure be 13 % low than the average . as important as intermediate care be , we know from the evidence that get home be well ; we be put record amount of money into the well care fund to make that possible . [ Official Report , 3 November 2025 ; Vol . 774 , c . 5wc . ] ( Correction ) I draw Ministers ' attention to the Prostate Cancer Research report publish last week . it bust the myth that a screening programme for prostate cancer would cost the NHS too much money . it would focus on the people most at risk — in other word , black man over the age of 45 , and those who , like I , have a history of it in their family . will the Secretary of State join I in commend this report to the UK National Screening Committee ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and the inequality to which he draw our attention . we will look at that report carefully . I be await the recommendation of the UK National Screening Committee . we will look carefully at that , and I will report to the House on our decision . the secure supply of medical radioisotope be critical for the treatment and diagnosis of many condition . be this the Department ' s responsibility , and do it support the Welsh Government ' s Project Arthur scheme at the nuclear licence site in Trawsfynydd in my constituency ? I thank the right hon . member for that question . security of supply be obviously of importance to the entire government . my portfolio include pharmacy , which be a very important part of that . I would be very happy to meet she to discuss far the matter she have raise . in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , I recently run a survey , which have a whopping 99 % response rate , in support of an urgent treatment centre in my constituency . would the Minister agree to meet I to discuss urgent treatment provision in my constituency ? my hon . friend do an excellent job in her constituency . I meet she regularly to discuss issue in her constituency , and I be very happy to discuss the provision of urgent care centre with she . great transparency about NHS datum should be use to drive improvement , so what assessment have the Health Secretary make of the impact on the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn of be force to make saving of £ 18 million this year ? what impact will that have on the need to reduce waiting time for A & e and cancer treatment , as identify in the league table that he publish ? we be put £ 26 billion more into the NHS this year , which be investment that be oppose by the conservative party . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on dyslexia — an issue on which I have campaign for many year — I remain alarmed at the high number of dyslexic people who still need to use mental health service . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can well serve dyslexic people in Broxtowe and across the UK , and will he consider measure to prevent more dyslexic people from need mental health service ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for share her personal experience , and I would be delighted to meet she . I welcome the approval of plan for a new dental school at the University of East Anglia . what arrangement and incentive will the Minister put in place to keep dental graduate in the most poorly serve area , such as my constituency of Waveney Valley ? I thank the hon . member for that question . he will have see that , in the 10 - year plan , we have commit to tie - in . once the current cohort be through its study , new cohort will be tie into do NHS dentistry for a period after graduation . I be sure that he welcome that very important measure . Jules Fielder be a young woman from Hastings who have tragically be diagnose with terminal lung cancer after doctor repeatedly miss the early symptom . Jules be now channel her personal tragedy into action and campaign to raise awareness of early symptom , and she want shop like Boots and Superdrug to use their shelf space to raise awareness . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to Jules ' s amazing campaigning work ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , and I offer my sympathy and good wish to Jules and her family . of course , I commend her awareness - raise work , which be really important . her experience be one of the reason why we be roll out target lung screening and start to use artificial intelligence to detect discrepancy in screening . child in Runnymede and Weybridge be wait on average two year to get a diagnosis of autism or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder from Surrey and Borders Partnership NHS foundation trust . the trust be deviate from national guidance on new developmental pathway , and waiting time be even great if child need medication . do the Secretary of State share my concern , and will he investigate the trust and make sure that child and family get the support that they need ? the hon . Gentleman have considerable expertise in this field , and I be grateful to he for bring this matter to light , but he be part of the previous Government , who let waiting list get out of control . he will appreciate that I be unable to directly interfere in ICB decision , but I be very happy to write to the board to ask for an update , and to update he when it reply . my constituent ' baby , Bran Tunnicliffe , sadly die last year . his parent share their experience with I , and describe the wait for a coroner ' s report as a lottery that depend on which hospital , pathologist and coroner be involve . I know that there be a shortage of pathologist in the UK . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss my constituent ' experience ? I be so sorry to hear that have experience such unimaginable heartbreak , the family then have to go through that additional trauma . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and look at what we can do together with our friend at the Ministry of Justice to improve the experience for family in that awful situation . for the final question , I call Gregory Campbell . some progress have be make in the early diagnosis of prostate cancer . will the Secretary of State ensure that when the further progress that we all hope to see be make , it will be share quickly and efficiently with the devolved region ? I can absolutely give the hon . gentleman that commitment . I work very well with my counterpart across Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , regardless of party affiliation . I think he make a very sensible suggestion . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I be concerned that the Health team may have inadvertently mislead the House . in July , the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation note that respiratory syncytial virus vaccine be so effective that they should be extend to all those over 80 and those in adult care home . the Secretary of State reassure this House in July that the recommendation have be accept , and provision would be in place for this winter . when I ask about that today , the Secretary of State say from a sedentary position that he have deliver on that promise , and the Minister for Secondary Care then confirm that . however , Government and NHS guideline still show that availability of the vaccine have not be extend . how can I ensure that the record be correct ? first of all , you can not continue the debate , but you have certainly put that on the record . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . before begin my question , I mean to pay tribute to our former colleague Oliver Colvile , who sadly pass away last night . he serve as the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport between 2010 and 2017 and be name by Conservative Home as one of a minority of conservative mps not to have vote against the Government , which , as a previous Whip , I think be exceptional . he be a true gentleman whose eccentricity endear he to many . I be sure the thought of the whole House be with his family . we all remember Oliver Colvile very fondly . he really be a good mp and a nice kind of guy to meet . I know Oliver way before he come to this House . we be all sadden to hear the news . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . on behalf of the Government and Labour Members , I associate myself fully with the remark of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) . Oliver Colvile be a decent man and a wonderful public servant — we all share that view . I be sure that my hon . friend on the Labour Benches will absolutely follow his example when it come to follow the Whip . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . Oliver Colvile be love by member from across this House . as it will soon be the 175th anniversary dinner of the Lords and Commons cricket team , it be worth remember one of the most famous wicket ever take , when Oliver Colvile bowl and take that wicket in India , on live television , watch by ten of million . I have never see a triumph like it . he will be much miss . he be always love and respect in this House . his brother be the famous Sky cricket commentator . Rape Gangs : National Statutory Inquiry ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on the recent criticism of the statutory inquiry into the rape gang scandal . as state in my previous statement to the House on 2 September and in my letter to the Home Affairs Committee yesterday , the Government remain resolute in deliver Baroness Casey ' s recommendation follow her national audit of group - base child sexual exploitation and abuse . these crime commit by groom gang be among the most horrific imaginable . Baroness Casey ' s report expose more than a decade of institutional inaction , and we be determined to ensure that such failure be never repeat . central to our response be a statutory national inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2005 . it will oversee local investigation and will have full power to compel evidence . it will also be time - limit to three year to ensure that victim and survivor receive answer swiftly . the inquiry will examine safeguard system , accountability and intersection with ethnicity , race and culture , identify failure and good practice . the inquiry will work alongside Operation Beaconport , a national police operation . the appointment of the chair be at a critical stage , and we hope to confirm its conclusion soon . victim and survivor have be at the heart of the process , with trauma - inform opportunity to share their view . we have engage with they on the chair appointment and the term of reference , which will be shape by the chair in public consultation with stakeholder . as have be widely report in the medium , victim and survivor be meet prospective chair this week — today , in fact . this process , contrary to the reporting , be manage not by the Home Office but by the independent child exploitation charity NWG Network . we be gather view to ensure that the perspective of victim and survivor remain central . we must avoid delay , as be see in the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , and we be progress as swiftly as thoroughness allow . misinformation undermine this process . allegation of intentional delay , lack of interest and a widening or dilution of the inquiry ' s scope be false . the inquiry will remain laser - focused on groom gang , as Baroness Casey recommend . this scandal arise because young , mainly white girl be systematically gang - rape and it be cover up by those in authority because the perpetrator be mainly of pakistani origin . it be all the more shocking that when call for a national inquiry become public in January , the Prime Minister smear campaigner as " jump on a far - right bandwagon " . comment like that be a disgrace and be what lead to this scandal be cover up in the first place . month later , just two day before face a vote in Parliament , the Government finally agree to the inquiry , but it be clear that they never want this inquiry and be force into it . perhaps that be why , month later , the Government have say nothing substantive publicly and their inquiry be descend into chaos . what we have hear publicly be that victim and survivor on the liaison panel have no confidence in the Government or the inquiry . in the last 24 hour alone , two have resign . Fiona Goddard resign from the panel , say that " the secretive conduct and condition impose on survivor " — by the Government — " have lead to a toxic , fearful environment , and there be a high risk of people feel silence all over again . " hour later , Ellie - Ann Reynolds also resign , say that the remit of the inquiry have be widen to " downplay the racial and religious motivation behind our abuse . " the Minister shake her head , but that be what Ellie - Ann Reynolds say . Fiona also raise the issue of Sabah Kaiser , who have be act as a liaison officer on behalf of NWG . just two year ago , Ms Kaiser describe call out the fact that the majority of perpetrator be of pakistani heritage as " destructive , distract , irresponsible " . give those frankly appalling view and the complaint about they by survivor , will the Minister ensure that Ms Kaiser play no further role ? victim and survivor have also question the suitability of former police officer or social worker to chair the inquiry . they do not believe that people from the profession that fail they so badly be suitable . will the Minister accept this feedback and appoint a judge to lead the inquiry ? will the Minister confirm that the scope of the inquiry will not be dilute , as both Fiona and Ellie - Ann say be now happen , and that it will focus on the cover - up of the rape gang scandal because of the fact that the majority of perpetrator be of pakistani origin ? finally , Fiona say this yesterday : " I just win ' t be gag and control by the government while they turn this inquiry into a cover up . " will the Minister apologise to Fiona and Ellie - Ann ? the right hon . Gentleman can not have listen to my remark at all if he be suggest that the Government have silence anybody . the Government have not handle the process ; it have be handle by a grooming gang charity . he cite and name a victim of crime . if the right hon . Gentleman have do anywhere near the level of work that I have do , he would know that not all victim and survivor be of the same opinion . they be not one homogeneous group of people who all think the same thing , who all want the same exposure and who all want their identity know . I have speak to Fiona Goddard many time , and I will continue that relationship with she , should that be what she wish . every single survivor who have be engage with — there have be many — will have different feeling on the subject . with regard to the right hon . Gentleman require a judge , Baroness Casey say to the House in the Home Affairs Committee that she do not want a traditional judicial - lead inquiry . she be explicit about that . can anyone in the House find I an institution that do not fail these girl over the year ? that include our court , which take child away from the grooming gang victim and which criminalise some of they . there be no institution in our country that have not fail . today , I will meet many of the victim and get their feedback , and I will continue to progress with that in mind . I will engage with all the victim , regardless of their opinion , and I will listen to those who have be put in the medium and be put in panel . I will always listen , and I will speak to all of they . Oldham have step forward to take on a local inquiry , and it have be wait to understand what the move to the national inquiry mean for its work . the same be true of victim and survivor , whose bravery and strength in the most difficult circumstance have be truly remarkable . what arrangement have be put in place to ensure that there be a clear front door , offer support that be fully independent of council and police force ? while local deep dive be clearly essential , can we have an assurance that if the evidence take an investigation beyond council and police force boundary , it will be follow to the full extent ? I will not be chair the inquiry , so I can only say to my hon . friend that the term of reference — I be not sure this be usual — will be consult on in public . that be because of the issue of bad faith and the concern about transparency . the remit of the inquiry will be decide by the chair , live within those term of reference . have be part of various different inquiry or watch they from a distance , I know that no stone will be leave unturned . whoever chair the inquiry will feel empower to do what they think be good . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it have be four month and long since the Home Office announce the national statutory inquiry into group - base child sexual exploitation . I know that Ministers will have want quick progress . we on the liberal Democrat Benches do , too . we still have no chair , no term of reference and , most importantly , no justice for the victim who have already wait year . now , two member of the victim and survivor liaison panel have step down after raise concern about shortlist chair . they seem to have lose confidence in the process before it have begin . the Home Office must listen to and act on the concern of victim — I know that the Minister will agree — and get the inquiry off the ground . that be the only way to ensure that it proceed with integrity and the trust of those it be mean to serve . now be the time to prioritise justice and prevention over political point scoring — I know that the Minister will agree with I on that , too — because this be an extremely sensitive matter , particularly for the victim . will the Minister commit to publish the term of reference along with full detail of the inquiry ' s budget and staffing and a timeline by the end of the month ? if not to that deadline , when will that be publish ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for both his tone and his approach . as per the Inquiries Act 2005 , the term of reference have to be set and consult on with the chair . the chair be be decide on . I have to say , it be not take any long than the covid inquiry or the infected blood inquiry , which I think each take seven month from their announcement to the appointment of the chair . I do not remember huge amount of criticism or bellyache about that , because we want to get those thing right . actually , get this right mean deal with lot of different stakeholder and victim with different view . the process have to be follow that the term of reference go through the chair . we have already do some of the work on the term of reference with victim ' group , but we can not publish those — we will do that publicly , as I say — until a chair be appoint . I will not rush that , because I will take note of all the feedback I receive . today , the Government have announce that they will take parental responsibility away where a child be bear of rape . that will protect grooming victim . child in this country will no long be the only proceed of crime that criminal can have lifelong access to . do the Minister agree that survivor be fail for too long by a Conservative Government who do not prioritise give they justice ? that party be lead by the Leader of the Opposition , who do not mention groom when she have the power to do something about it . instead , survivor have have to wait for victim and activist to be on the Government Benches , and for the fierce of advocate to be at the Dispatch Box . I thank my hon . friend . I think she mischaracterise I as the fierce of advocate because she , as a grooming victim , with a child bear of rape , be the fiercest and brave . I could cry , I feel so proud that the Government seek to get she elect . I have be campaign for the thing she have fight for with groom gang victim for nearly a decade . I meet with Ministers of the then Government and nothing be do . [ interruption . ] the exact thing that she have campaign for be ask for repeatedly and nothing be do . I be incredibly proud of she , as it be because of she and this government that today I can say that that will change . I have a copy of the Government ' s response to the development last night address to the Home Affairs Committee , and I find the response completely unacceptable . be the Government seriously imply that Fiona and Ellie , who have be disbelieve and call liar by the british state their entire life , be spread " misinformation " about a process they have be directly involve in ? that would be a deeply damaging thing for any Government to imply . bad , there be a line in the letter about the Government ' s propose inquiry in Oldham that say that the Government " have be in discussion with Oldham Council about the right approach for Oldham " . how can that possibly be right ? how can the Home Office discuss the right approach with the very local authority be investigate ? it would be like the Post Office inquiry sit down with the Post Office to negotiate how it should be investigate . will the Minister explain how the Government will restore trust right now in the process , give the content of the letter that she send to the Home Affairs Committee last night ? can I be completely clear ? I be suggest that I will listen completely and utterly to the feedback from the victim who be on the panel and those who still be . they be not spread misinformation at all , but the hon . member ' s interpretation be a brilliant case in point . I will be completely honest . the conversation with Oldham be : do we not think it might be well for Oldham just to take part in a statutory inquiry ? it have absolutely nothing to do with the idea that Oldham be tell I what to do . the more people on the conservative Benches — [ interruption . ] oh , the hon . Member can hold up his letter and have a smug face all he like , but the fact of the matter be that there be no council in this country that will tell the inquiry where it can and can not go . I have say that 1 million time from the Dispatch Box , yet the same thing get peddle again and again . I know that the Minister will not want to comment on individual candidate to chair the national groom inquiry . however , may I put on record that Jim Gamble be a highly regard police officer with a long experience of deal with this matter ? his leadership of the child exploitation and online protection centre prove what a fearless and fiercely independent figure he be , with a real track record of track down sick paedophile online and off . do the Minister agree that the chair of the inquiry must be someone who can earn the trust of those who have be let down by those in position of authority for far too long ? will she confirm — I hope that she will — that the inquiry will not shy away from issue of race or class and will follow the evidence wherever it lead ? first and foremost , I absolutely confirm that that will not happen . not only that , but I confirm that the Home Office have ask police force across the country to collect datum on ethnicity . that be not do before . I will not be draw into his point about the chair ; it be not up to I . however , I will say that the gentleman my hon . friend mention resign from a previous role in this field because he think that the then Government be not invest enough in tackle child sexual exploitation . the victim of these crime be vulnerable child who be ignore , gaslit and dismiss . two victim have now resign because of the process , its failure and their lack of faith in it . yet , I hear what appear to I to be an aggressive and defensive tone from the Minister . yes , that be because of you lot . she should remember that those people be watch . will she listen to the victim and do she regret that those two individual have resign from the process ? I absolutely regret that they have resign from the process . funnily enough , in the particular instance of one of the people , I have have no involvement in that process . I do not know who be on the panel of victim ; it be entirely independently manage by a grooming gang charity . one of my only intervention be to ensure that the name of some of the voice that I think deserve to be hear be include . I have do that on a number of occasion . I will , of course , listen to they . actually , I be mean to be with those panel of victim , hear their response , right now . as I have say , I will take the feedback of anyone , both publicly and should they want to speak to I , as I have approach they . I be always sad when victim feel that they can not take part in a process — of course I be . there be many different victim and they have many different view . there be one that we hear publicly . but I want to make it clear that there be many different victim and we have to ensure that all their voice be hear equally , whether they be part of the process or not . the Minister have reiterate time and again that victim must be at the centre of an inquiry . will she tell we what she intend to do to ensure that that aim be fully implement ? while the inquiry be ongoing , that will be a matter for the chair . however , I know from the inquiry that I have be involve in that be successful and victim - centric that there always have to be a system for support the victim , both with take part in the inquiry and with the trauma that might be bring up . usually , those two thing be separate , but I will say this once again : I will not be the chair of this committee . undoubtedly , it be about ensure that victim be protect throughout the process . should they want to go out and speak publicly both negatively and positively about that process , I would absolutely welcome that . People should never be prevent from speak . we have to ensure that support be available , regardless of how they wish to gain it . there should be nothing more precious in the eye of this Parliament than the protection of child , particularly those who suffer at the hand of these barbaric individual . many of we be parent , aunt , uncle and grandparent and this cut very deep . I know that the Minister care and be a caring person , but today we need decisive action . give that one of the victim have walk away from the inquiry — two . give that two of the victim have walk away from the inquiry , will the Minister clearly state how she will ensure that a fully independent inquiry can take place and that it prominently include victim ? all I can say be that there be a reason that I can not stand in front of the victim , who I be mean to be get feedback from right now , and definitely say when the chair will come . I could have just put my finger in the air and pick out some random judge — we could have do that — but I be listen to victim ' feedback . again , I have to stress that that process be not easy . there be difficult dynamic within group of people and the people who we have ask to engage be deal with difficult thing , so undoubtedly , that be not uncomplex . as anyone who have work with group of people who have be wrong , shame and treat badly will know , it would be a lie to stand here and tell they that there be a straight line and a simple answer — and I be not willing to do that . I thank the Minister for her continued work . all victim and survivor have not have their voice hear for too long . we need to ensure that that happen and I be sure that the Minister be do that . will she confirm what resource be available to ensure that survivor be properly support through the process ? on system delay , we know that there be still issue with court delay and ensure we go after all the perpetrator . will she give an update on that and on the Jay inquiry recommendation ? I will chair an interministerial cross - Government group next week to push through the other recommendation . Baroness Casey make 12 recommendation , but people rarely speak about any of the other . this be not her most press one ; instead , she give primacy to the policing - relate recommendation around Operation Beaconport . as I say in my previous statement on 2 September , the work on the 216 case that move forward be ongoing and run alongside this . that be where justice will be serve : in our court — if only they have not be horrendously degrade so that rape victim wait for year and year . I think we all agree that the voice of survivor have to be at the heart of this . it be worry and concern when two of those survivor do not feel as if the process be properly look after they and ensure their voice be hear . will the Minister commit to speak to both Fiona Goddard and Ellie - Ann Reynolds to try and encourage and reassure they that this be a process that really will listen to their voice ? that opportunity have already be present to they and I would be more than happy . I know one of they but not the other . that opportunity be always available , and one of they have my phone number . on the idea that I do not listen and have not be make myself available , I have try to keep the process fiercely independent of government intervention so that it can happen and victim can feel safe in that , but of course I feel sad that this be how it have end . actually , I hope that this be not how it have end and I will commit to make sure that this be not the end . my door be always open to they . in 2012 , a Bangladeshi national be sentence in my Carlisle constituency for attempt to recruit four girl , age 12 to 16 , into prostitution . in his sum up , the judge describe how the man ' s conduct have corrode " the foundation of decency and respect by which all right - think people live their life whatever their ethnic or religious background . " will the Minister take the opportunity to again reassure all right - think people that this inquiry will look at everything to find answer , include the role of ethnicity ? I say again and again that it will not shy away from finding where they be present . anybody who have do the work in this space will know that that be go to be find , as the case in my hon . friend ' s constituency highlight . there be absolutely no sense that ethnicity will be bury away . every single time that there be an apparently needless delay — even though it take seven month to put in place chair for both the covid inquiry and the blood inquiry , and nobody moan about that — it get use to say that we want to cover something up . that be the misinformation I be talk about . it will not cover thing up . we be take time to ensure that that can never happen . the hon . Lady have be an outspoken champion for the victim , and will continue to be so , but she must be concern that two member of the panel have withdraw , and we understand that one of the candidate to be chair of the inquiry have withdraw . clearly , there be concern across the House that institution such as the police , social service , council and the court be all in a position where they have fail . whoever chair the inquiry must , therefore , have full rigour over service that they may have be involve in . so there be an issue of confidence . can she update the House on how the inquiry will report back to the House and what scrutiny the House will have over the action of the inquiry and the term of reference ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , who be in a unique category of always ask a question that lead I to further question that be pertinent . an inquiry do not usually report to the House while it be ongoing , but I will take that away to see if there be an appetite for that . all I can say be that there be no institution in the country , include this one here , that do not have skeleton . do I think all politician would not be robust in this ? no , I do not . I think some would . I can guarantee that I can point at people , the hon . Gentleman include , who would show absolute rigour even against his own . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , IICSA , have a judge lead it and it lose the confidence of the victim . three people lose the confidence of the victim . it take two year . there be not an institution that do not fail those girl . that be the whole point . there be no clean skin , but there be brilliant people who whistleblew and who try , in every one of those institution . that be essentially where we be leave with this , but I promise rigour in the same way that , when I see thing happen in here , I be rigorous . I commend the Minister for her formidable personal leadership on this , and I be proud to sit on these Benches alongside other formidable campaigner , too . the Minister have reiterate that the inquiry must be trauma - inform , and I know from speak to victim in my constituency just how vital it be that we be cognisant both of the initial trauma that they have experience and also of the retraumatise effect of go through the process of seek justice for themselves and other . can the Minister set out more about how she will ensure that this trauma - inform approach be weave through the ongoing inquiry ? as the inquiry be set up — as with previous inquiry with very vulnerable group of people , such as iicsa — thing will have to be put in place to ensure that people can freely give their evidence , and that will have to be do in a trauma - inform way . the twelfth of Baroness Casey ' s recommendation be that all the recommendation should be fully fund by the Government , and this Government have absolutely commit to that . I very much expect that , when the chair be in place , those conversation about exactly how that will look will begin . the only thing I do control , I suppose , in any of this , be that this Government will pay for it . the cover - up continue . we have a Prime Minister who never want a national inquiry , we have a Minister who never want a national inquiry and we have the Labour Back Benchers who never want a national inquiry . do the Minister agree that the victim of these horrific crime will never get the justice they deserve , as long as we have a Labour Government in charge ? it be quite impressive that the hon . Member say that after a grooming victim have stand up and speak from these Benches , but I have learn to expect it . he talk about a cover - up — maybe he be do it for click ; I do not know — and I understand that he think he be do God ' s work in fight this issue , but the idea that it be easy to find a chair or to find people who want to step forward and take part in this process , give the level of bad faith and when the issue be mire in political point scoring of the type he have just do ! he should really question his own morality . Ellie Reynolds have say that financial dependency have make people stay silent when they should speak , and also allege that people on the panel be isolate by have contact with each other discourage . the Minister have be extremely clear that this be a fully independent process and have not have Government involvement , but how do she propose to handle the very complex relationship between the concern that Ellie Reynolds have speak clearly about and ensure that the process retain the faith of everyone involve ? as I have say , I would very much hope to hear those concern directly from Ellie herself and to see what can be do . I only know the victim who I have work with — when they have be on the panel , they have speak to I , because I have personal relation with they — and what I can say be that there be differ view about the level of confidentiality . the confidentiality be not to silence people or prevent they from speak about their own experience . it be necessary because there be people in those room who have never show their face who be also victim . have run an agency myself , I know about try to manage that . I can see why somebody might say that we should not seek out people outside the meeting , because other might have say they do not want that , but they be not go to say that in public . I can imagine all those thing . I be try to get across the idea of how complex these situation be , but I be more than happy to listen to Ellie and see what have go wrong in the process for she and seek to make it well . I be absolutely happy to do that . we have hear what the Minister say about diverse view among victim , but be she concerned that some survivor of these terrible crime have describe the process as a toxic , fearful environment and warn that there be a high risk of people feel silence all over again ? what be she go to do to reverse that failure ? I refer the hon . member to my previous answer . as I have say a number of time , I be go to speak to those involve and look into the process . it be not a process that I have personally be part of , and I can only speak to the victim who I happen to have know before , if they tell I that they be part of it — not the other way around . I can not ask who be involve . that be confidential by its very nature . of course I be go to listen to that feedback and , like I have say , I will speak to those victim involve . victim must be at the heart of the grooming gang inquiry . do the Minister agree that get the right chair be absolutely key to ensure that that happen ? do she also agree that we have to avoid the scene that we see under the last government , who appoint three chair who then withdraw from the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse — an inquiry that take two year to start ? my hon . friend , who I know have some experience of inquiry from her previous life , be exactly right . People do not remember it now , but there be victim go out in the press complain about what be go on with IICSA . it go through numerous chair . there be already much bad faith in this instance , both rightly and wrongly . for I to allow the same to happen during this inquiry would just make people shout " Cover - up ! " , so we be try to do everything possible to ensure that the mistake make by the previous Government be not make again . the credibility of the national inquiry rest on place the voice , experience and need of victim and survivor at its very centre . can the Minister show victim in Wales how this inquiry will be guide by their good interest , give that survivor have such grave concern that they feel they must resign from the panel ? to go back to the previous answer , the chair of the inquiry will set the tone for the inquiry . that be why we have to put in place the right chair and a system for victim who want to take part in the inquiry that will care for and look after they , and that be what we be work to achieve . I thank the Minister for her response , and I absolutely agree that it be crucial to get this right , so can she be absolutely clear that the inquiry will not be water down , particularly in its focus on groom gang and ethnicity , include on model of groom where groomer focus on the ethnicity of victim , whether that be young white girl or even Sikh girl ? absolutely . I absolutely pay tribute to the community response in my hon . friend ' s local area to recent incidence of very hideous sexual violence , and I put on record my love to the family and victim involve . I absolutely agree : this be a grooming gang inquiry , and it will follow what Baroness Casey state . as I say in my statement , it will be three year long , it will not shy away and it will be a grooming gang inquiry . I acknowledge the Minister ' s commitment to get to justice on this issue , and I recognise the frustration that she express , because I be responsible for the infected blood compensation scheme , which involve meet a diverse group of 40 different charity and representative body that do not agree with one another . however , I gently and respectfully say to she that we face a credibility gap on this issue , and I urge she to examine how she can get ahead with the communication so that she can continue to demonstrate her commitment to get to justice . frankly , we as member of Parliament have to come to this place when thing get into the medium and public concern be express . I understand her frustration , but get the communication right and maintain a pathway to the delivery of justice be critical . I do not disagree with the right hon . Gentleman . Most of what I see report on anything in this space be largely inaccurate and often come with an agenda , more so than in the case of the infected blood scheme , although I absolutely take my hat off to the job that he have to do . there be a balance between want to give a complete and utter running commentary on a very complicated thing and make sure that people feel like something be go on , because nature abhor a vacuum and so do misinformation . the Minister have hear I implore she many time to move as speedily as possible to address the challenge of the victim of these awful crime , but on this occasion I implore she to take the right time to find the right judge . it be not a normal public appointment ; this be someone who have to command the confidence of the House , the public , and most importantly , survivor . they must leave no stone unturned and investigate everything , whether that be ethnicity , class - related or institutional , and make the Minister ' s life hard if they have to do so . will the Minister take the time to find the right judge and not repeat what we see with the child sexual abuse inquiry several year ago ? I absolutely will , and my hon . friend give I the opportunity to say that , no matter who be pick , there will be people unhappy with it . like most politic that we deal with , let we just call a spade a spade and stop pretend that there be a perfect situation . there be only the good situation we can have . funnily enough , in the conversation that I have have with some of the prospective chair , the main thing I have want they to take away be the feeling that , if they have to slag I off all day long , then that be exactly what they should do , and I would say the same to the victim . the Minister obviously feel very deeply about this issue . I think we all agree that anyone who be involve in these awful and horrific crime must be hold to account , and we must shine a light on anyone who turn a blind eye and ensure that it do not happen again . can the Minister provide a commitment that the inquiry will not be politicise , particularly after multiple local authority have attempt to block investigation ? that be a really important question , because we see that happen . everyone need to be investigate on this — it do not matter which party they be from ; this be too important . absolutely — 100 % . far be it from I to speculate about where I would like the inquiry to go , but if I have my way and I be the chair , I would have grave concern about the area where I live — member will not be surprised to hear — because that be where I work . the fact that it have a Labour council would not stop I from want to look there . in fact , if the House will excuse my unparliamentary language , I could not give a toss about — order . I be sorry the Minister feel she have to push it . she be do an excellent job . she do not need to push it ; she be well than that . I call Alison Hume . I thank the Minister both for her statement and for the passion and rigour that she bring to her role . even if sometimes she might say thing that she have to apologise for , we greatly appreciate her dedication to the role . actually , I grant the urgent question — that be why we be here . thank you , Mr Speaker . every survivor ' s experience of abuse be unique . do the Minister agree that take the time to find the right chair will enable they to ensure that every story will be fully tell ? I really hope so , but I be not go to do what other people seem to want to do in this circumstance and pretend that there be a guarantee and that I have some sort of magic weapon . that be the process that I be undertake : I be try to get the very good chair , who be support alongside the victim who have be take part in the process . get this right be both important and extremely difficult . I have two question for the Minister . if , when she meet Fiona and Ellie - Ann , she find that they be right and that there be something wrong , what power do she have to intervene ? secondly , will she provide assurance that the inquiry will not be staff — she may be able to comment on her power and the power to influence — by individual who previously dismiss the concern of survivor and campaigner as racist slur ? in answer to the first question , I have every power to intervene in the panel ' s process , but the decision I make be that it should be independent of I and my office , and would be well handle by expert in the field . when I speak to those involve , of course I can raise thing and make decision about how this go forward . I very much hope that we will be draw to a conclusion and that soon I will have much less involvement . to the right hon . Gentleman ' s other question , victim and survivor of this crime all have different political opinion . they all have different view on the substantive . they have different view about whether it should be call " groom " or whether it should be call " group " . they have different view on all these thing . I will not stand here and say that I would eliminate any victim or survivor work on this base on their political view , and I will continue to say that as it be . many of they do not like I very much . imagine if I just do not let the people who do not like I very much have their voice hear . well , frankly , I would be guilty of a cover - up . the Minister have make it clear that woman and girl be fail by every institution , and it be a positive step that the failure have now be acknowledge by Government and that the acknowledgment be lead to action after year of inaction . but in Scotland we have have absolutely no acknowledgment or action . what advice would the Minister give I and other across Scotland who be become increasingly angry that the Scottish Government be do all they can not just to block an investigation , but to block any kind of independent scrutiny or case review of organise child exploitation ? first , while the inquiry be in England and Wales , one of the victim who we have be hear about today — Ellie — live very much in the borderland of our two great country of England and Scotland . there be absolutely no doubt in my mind that some of the thing that may get find in the inquiry will have finding across the border . unfortunately , the trafficking of young girl do not follow line on a map as easily as we might think it do when we administer inquiry . my hon . friend should continue to work with survivor group up in Scotland to push for what exactly it be that they want to see in Scotland . I thank the Minister for her answer . I know her heart be in this to get justice , and I do not think that there be any doubt about that . however , it be difficult to hear the news that these victim , who have already be denigrate and treat as voiceless and worthless during their initial abuse , have be make to feel that way once again in this inquiry , and the Minister will understand that it be also difficult for we to accept that this be take place on the Government ' s watch . do she agree that the inquiry be not get this right ? will she instruct that immediate action be take to give those young woman their voice back to ensure that justice be serve and that safeguard be in place to prevent such abuse from take place on british soil ever again ? I absolutely share the hon . Gentleman ' s upset and frustration on the matter . he know that when I say that I will do whatever I can to ensure that these problem be sort out , where they can be , that be what we will seek to do , and we will continue to try to do that . what we have to do with this inquiry be not just look at what go wrong and hold people to account ; we have to ensure that it can not happen again . I say to Opposition Members that their relentless politicisation of the issue be no doubt make it much hard to find a chair because it will be put candidate off . as the inquiry get under way , we must keep up progress on implement the recommendation of the Jay IICSA inquiry . I raise concern on Report during the Crime and Policing Bill that the Government ' s proposal to implement mandatory reporting of child sexual abuse do not go quite as far as IICSA want , and those concern be raise again in the other place last week by Baroness Grey - Thompson . will the Minister ask her colleague Lord Hanson to meet I and Baroness Grey - Thompson to discuss how we can remedy that in a way that work for everyone and that protect child ? the simple answer be yes . my hon . friend be absolutely right on his first point . what we should all seek to be do throughout this be to try to grease the wheel so that we can have the good possible inquiry . we should all be seek to do that while hold people to account with as much scrutiny as be need . I will absolutely do that , and obviously I have meet my hon . friend a number of time . get mandatory reporting right be vital and , much like in the survivor group , there be different view on either side . Blackpool continue to live with the scar of Charlene Downes and Paige Chivers , two young girl in Blackpool who never come home and be subject to grooming . will the Minister confirm to my constituent that the grooming gang inquiry will be thorough and comprehensive , and commit to a full and transparent investigation , ensure that every avenue be examine to uncover the truth ? I absolutely will . funnily enough , this morning I speak to one of my hon . friend ' s constituent , a grooming gang victim , to assure she of similar thing . quite a lot of this process cause quite a lot of nervousness , and there be a need to manage lot of different people ' s emotion , but I absolutely make that commitment to he , as I make it to one of his constituent this morning , and I make it to the House . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I invite you to examine column 652 from yesterday ' s Hansard , during the exchange about Maccabi Tel Aviv supporter travel to Aston Villa . in reply to my question , the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport say she agree with I about the safety of everyone walk the street , but she go on to say : " perhaps he might make that point to the people he now associate with on his left and right , because that be not what we have hear from they in the last few week . " — [ Official Report , 20 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 652 . ] there be a suggestion in that that my colleague have do something other than say that everyone should be able to walk the street safely in our society . they be concern about the danger from football supporter act in a hooliganistic way at the Aston Villa game . I think the Secretary of State should correct what she say — order . Jeremy — come on . you have certainly put your view on the record , but what we will not do be continue the debate . you know that as a long - stand Member of this House who have great respect . I will leave it at that , because you have certainly ensure that we be all aware of that correction . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . follow the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , despite the Safeguarding Minister ' s good effort to explain whether she be involve concern the response to the urgent question that you have grant , Mr Speaker , I be genuinely more confused and think that many constituent will be too . despite the Minister say that she be not look to provide a running commentary , may I ask that she update the House clearly to assist on these matter , so that we can avoid urgent question such as this one ? I call the Minister . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I be not sure what the hon . Member be confused about . a victim panel be set up to look at both the term of reference and the appointment of a chair . there be a variety of different group of people . some of they have do both ; some of they have take part in just one or the other , usually depend on time and logistic , as she might imagine . that have be manage by an organisation call NWG . I have not take part in those session , other than to feedback on chair . the feedback on the chair ' s appointment come to I . I do not have to go to that , but I go and sit and listen . usually , that be the first time I know who have be on the panel , when they have be interview chair . the process be entirely manage . because of my year of experience , I happen to know quite a lot of the people , and so I do speak to some of the people who be on the panel because I have personal relationship with they and have support they over the year . I hope that clear that up . I thank the Minister for that . Cyber Extortion and Ransomware ( reporting ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require a company that meet a specified criterion to report any cyber extortion or ransomware attack on the company to the Government within a specified time after the attack ; to make provision about the content of such report , include a requirement to provide information about any payment make ; and for connected purpose . this be a timely and press matter . illegal activity across the nation be on the rise , and cyber - attack be no exception . the National Cyber Security Centre have report a 50 % increase in british cyber - incident deem " highly significant " over the past year . furthermore , of the 429 incident the NCSC be call upon to assist with , at least half be consider of " national importance " . among the significant threat identify in the NCSC ' s 2025 annual review be hostile state such as China , link to a co - ordinate campaign involve three China - base company target foreign government and critical network , and Iran , which the NCSC assess as a highly likely threat to UK entity . UK IT leader be understandably alarmed . research from Armis have reveal that 74 % of UK IT leader cite China and 71 % cite Russia as their top cyber - security concern . if that be not enough , recent espionage trial have throw a harsh spotlight on the scale and intent of state - sponsor cyber - operation . the threat be undeniable . we must act with urgency to safeguard UK - base company and critical infrastructure before these escalating menace begin to seriously disrupt the functioning of our nation . under current legislation , cyber - attack need only be report in limited circumstance : organisation handle personal datum must report cyber - attack that pose a likely risk to individual right ; essential service operator and relevant digital service provider must disclose incident with " substantial " service impact ; and a few regulated body , such as the Financial Conduct Authority and the Solicitors Regulation Authority , follow their own cyber - incident reporting requirement . notably , there be no requirement for company to disclose when a ransomware payment have be make , despite the significant financial burden such payment can impose . cohesity ' s " global cyber resilience report 2024 " find that 59 % of company target by ransomware choose to pay , with an average cost of £ 870 , 000 and some reach as high as £ 20 million . the reality be clear : cyber - crime , particularly extortion and ransomware , have outpace exist legislation . it have allow dangerous gap to emerge in our intelligence gathering — gap that criminal be likely to exploit — and have weaken the defence of our national critical infrastructure against these escalate threat . the Cyber Extortion and Ransomware ( reporting ) Bill seek to close those gap and reinforce the UK ' s resilience against cyber - crime . follow Australia ' s implementation of a mandatory ransomware payment reporting regime , which have so far be successful , it be imperative that the UK follow suit . the Bill would mandate any british company register under the Companies Act 2006 that have an annual turnover above £ 25 million or be responsible for critical national infrastructure to inform the Government within 72 hour of become victim to a cyber - extortion or ransomware attack , with a further report be require if any payment be make by the company or a third party on its behalf , within 72 hour of the transaction take place . we have all witness the shocking headline about major british company under siege from cyber - attack , result in severe disruption and million in lose revenue . from M & S to the Co - op , harrod to Jaguar Land Rover , these attack have be crippling , and yet the Government currently have no legal right to know whether a ransom payment be make to restore their system . what if that payment be make to a terrorist organisation ? what if it be send to a hostile state ? it be not the fault of the company who , under immense pressure and with limited option , choose to pay to regain control of their operation . the fault lie in the gap in our legislation — gap that allow ransom payment to go unreported , potentially fuel even great threat against our nation . the propose threshold of an annual turnover exceed £ 25 million or those responsible for critical national infrastructure have be carefully consider . it capture approximately 78 % of medium - sized business and all large corporation , while avoid the overwhelming influx of report that a low threshold would trigger due to the high number of small and medium - sized enterprise in the UK . national critical infrastructure comprise all 13 sector define by the Government : chemical , civil nuclear , communication , defence , emergency service , energy , finance , food , government , health , space , transport and water . these criterion capture the vast majority of company whose compromise through attack or ransom payment could pose a serious risk to the UK . it also reflect the volume of report our resource can realistically manage , while establish a clear , accessible threshold so that company be not force to navigate complex policy during the stress of an active attack . another imperative component of this approach be the inclusion of all payment type , whether monetary , intellectual property , exchange of gift or service or other form of benefit . this broad scope will enable law enforcement to trace criminal network , identify pattern and disrupt the flow of illicit fund . it will help to inform well resource allocation , as well as hold the potential to foster collaboration across sector that would result in fast alert and strong resilience . I understand that many company may have reservation regard the requirement to report incident and ransom payment . it could leave they vulnerable to reputational damage from potential leak , damage their business far . this proposal be pro - business , and that be why robust legal protection would be establish to ensure that any report make to the Government remain strictly confidential , with no right of publication , unless it be deem to be in the national interest . this will give company the assurance they need to report without fear and the support they deserve to help their recovery . what happen if a company fail to report within 72 hour of a cyber - extortion attack or neglect to submit a follow - up report within 72 hour of make a ransom payment ? quite simply , it will face a civil monetary penalty . mandate reporting be essential to our national security and collective wellbeing . non - compliance must be actively discourage . it be in the company ' s interest , the public ' s interest and the Government ' s interest . the absence of mandatory reporting , especially for ransom payment , leave a dangerous blind spot in our national security . when company report these payment , our security agency gain vital intelligence — intelligence that help we to understand who be be target , how attack be evolve and where our vulnerability lie before they be exploit . espionage today be not confine to spy and steal document . it be digital , it be silent , and it be relentless . the grey zone exist . cyber - extortion and ransomware attack be fast become the preferred weapon of hostile actor seek to destabilise our institution and exploit our vulnerability . their attack be become progressively more complex , often leave company with no viable alternative but to make ransom payment . from individual hacker to organise criminal gang and state - back attack from overseas , we can not afford to fall behind in the race of technological defence and expose ourselves to increasingly sophisticated cyber - extortion attack . while I acknowledge that the Government reference the introduction of a cyber - security Bill in the King ' s Speech , it be deeply concern that , despite the urgency of the threat , the Bill have yet to even be bring before Parliament . cyber criminal be not slow down , and their method be not become simple . on the contrary , attack be grow in complexity , scale and impact . although I recognise that sound policy require time to develop , we can not afford to proceed at our current glacial pace . Delay only deepen our vulnerability , particularly in the light of recent event . we must act decisively and without hesitation to safeguard british business and protect our national security . the choice before we be stark : either we allow ourselves to become increasingly expose as criminal outpace our outdated legislation and other nation fortify their defence , or we rise to meet the moment with urgency , resolve and the protection our country demand . it be time for we to send an important message : we will not allow cyber criminal to continue operate in the shadow , unchecked and unchallenged . question put and agree to . order , that Bradley Thomas , Tom Tugendhat , Alison Griffiths , Dr Neil Shastri - Hurst , Joy Morrissey , Saqib Bhatti , John Glen , Greg Smith , Ben Obese - Jecty , Lincoln Jopp , Sir John Hayes and Jim Shannon present the Bill . Bradley Thomas accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 May 2026 , and to be print ( Bill 315 ) . sentencing Bill Bill to be consider in Committee [ relevant document : correspondence from the Joint Committee on Human Rights to the Lord Chancellor , on the Sentencing Bill , report to the House on 15 October . ] [ Caroline Nokes in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee , they should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair and Madam Chairman be also acceptable . before I call the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) to move amendment 46 , I should advise the Committee that once that amendment have be dispose of at the end of the debate , I be provisionally minded to call the follow amendment and new clause for separate decision : amendment 24 , in the name of the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) ; new clause 6 , in the name of the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) ; new clause 9 , in the name of the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ; and new clause 30 , in the name of the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) . clause 1 - presumption of suspend sentence order for sentence of 12 month or less I beg to move amendment 46 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out " not more " and insert " less " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would apply to sentence of less than 12 month . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : Amendment 47 , page 1 , line 14 , after " month " insert " before any credit be give for a guilty plea " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would apply to sentence before credit be give for a guilty plea . Amendment 50 , page 1 , line 17 , after " order " insert " with the maximum operational period " . this would mean that all suspend sentence give in place of immediate custody would be suspend for the maximum period . government amendment 2 and 3 . amendment 48 , page 3 , line 8 , after " individual " insert " or the public " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the court be of the opinion that not impose an immediate custodial sentence would put an individual or the public at significant risk of harm . amendment 49 , page 3 , line 8 , after " at " leave out " significant " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the court be of the opinion that not impose an immediate custodial sentence would put an individual or the public at risk of harm . Amendment 51 , page 4 , line 3 , leave out " not more " and insert " less " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would apply to sentence of less than 12 month . amendment 52 , page 4 , line 3 , after " 12 month " insert " before any credit be give for a guilty plea " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would apply to sentence before credit be give for a guilty plea ( typically one third ) . Amendment 55 , page 4 , line 6 , after " order " insert " with the maximum operational period " . this would mean that all suspend sentence give in place of immediate custody would be suspend for the maximum period . amendment 36 , page 4 , line 11 , at end insert " , or the court be of the opinion that , have consider the basis of opinion provision in section 77 Sentencing Act 2020 , it should mitigate the sentence to one of a community sentence as provide for in that section . " government amendment 4 and 5 . amendment 53 , page 5 , line 15 , after " individual " insert " or the public " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the court be of the opinion that not impose an immediate custodial sentence would put an individual or the public at significant risk of harm . amendment 54 , page 5 , line 15 , leave out " significant " . the presumption for a suspend sentence would not apply where the court be of the opinion that not impose an immediate custodial sentence would put an individual or the public at risk of harm . clause 1 and 2 stand part . amendment 29 , in clause 3 , page 10 , leave out line 4 to 6 and insert — " ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) , " monthly income " mean monthly income after deduction of — ( a ) such amount as be require to be pay or deduct from the offender ' s income under , or by virtue of , any enactment , or ( b ) such amount as may be specify in the regulation . " this amendment change the definition of " monthly income " for the purpose of income reduction order so that any amount of money that be require to be pay or deduct from an offender ' s monthly income as a result of other enactment ( such as child support maintenance payment or under an attachment of earning order ) be not count for those purpose . clause 3 stand part . amendment 1 , in clause 4 , page 14 , line 4 , after " ( include victim of crime " insert " , ensure their protection from further physical or psychological harm " . this amendment would amend the statutory purpose of sentencing to incorporate safeguard victim from further physical or psychological harm . clause 4 and 5 stand part . amendment 30 , in clause 6 , page 14 , leave out line 29 to 32 and insert — " ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a court be pass sentence for an offence , ( b ) the court have indicate that it appear the offence may have involve domestic abuse , and ( c ) have regard to any evidence and any representation that be make by or on behalf of the offender or the prosecution , the court be of the view that the offence involve domestic abuse . " this amendment introduce two procedural safeguard before a court can record that an offence involve domestic abuse : first , the court must have indicate that it appear the offence may have involve domestic abuse ; and , second , the court must have give an opportunity to the offender and prosecution to adduce evidence and make representation before come to the view that an offence involve domestic abuse . government amendment 6 to 8 . Amendment 31 , page 15 , leave out line 9 to 12 and insert — " ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a court or officer be pass sentence for an offence , ( b ) the court or officer have indicate that it appear the offence may have involve domestic abuse , and ( c ) have regard to any evidence and any representation that be make by or on behalf of the offender or the prosecution , the court or officer be of the view that the offence involve domestic abuse . " this amendment introduce two procedural safeguard before a court can record that a service offence involve domestic abuse : first , the court must have indicate that it appear the service offence may have involve domestic abuse ; and , second , the court must have give an opportunity to the offender and prosecution to adduce evidence and make representation before come to the view that the service offence involve domestic abuse . government amendment 9 to 11 . clause 6 and 7 stand part . government amendment 12 . clause 8 stand part . government amendment 13 . clause 9 to 12 stand part . government amendment 14 and 15 . clause 13 to 15 stand part . government amendment 16 and 17 . clause 16 to 19 stand part . amendment 24 , in clause 20 , page 37 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( ab ) but section 244ZA ( 8 ) ( a ) and ( aa ) do not apply to any person convict of — ( a ) rape ; ( b ) assault by penetration ; ( c ) rape of a child under 13 ; ( d ) assault of a child under 13 by penetration ; ( e ) incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ; ( f ) pay for the sexual service of a child age under 13 ; ( g ) kidnapping or false imprisonment with the intention of commit a sexual offence ; ( h ) create or possess indecent photograph of child ; ( i ) grievous bodily harm ; ( j ) grooming ; ( k ) stalking ; ( l ) cause or allow the death of a vulnerable child or adult ; or ( m ) death by dangerous driving , and ( ac ) but section 244ZA ( 8 ) ( a ) and ( aa ) can not come into force until the Secretary of State have consult on and ensure exclusion for all offence consider to be serious violence , offence against child , sexual offence and domestic abuse offence , and " . this amendment would disapply the clause 20 early release provision of the Bill in relation to those convict of the offence list in the amendment , and would require the Secretary of State to consult on and ensure exclusion for those convict of other serious violent and sexual offence category . clause 20 to 23 stand part . amendment 41 , in clause 24 , page 46 , leave out line 20 to 23 . this amendment would leave out the Bill ' s provision to give probation officer more discretion in relation to licence condition . Amendment 34 , page 46 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( c ) after subsection ( 4A ) insert — ' ( 4b ) in exercise any power under subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) , the Secretary of State must have regard to any representation make by the offender . ' " this amendment introduce a right for those be make subject to licence condition to make representation as to their necessity and proportionality . amendment 35 , page 46 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( c ) after subsection ( 4A ) insert — ' ( 4b ) the Secretary of State must not include a condition under subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) ( di ) ( a restriction zone condition ) in a licence , either on release or subsequently , or vary or cancel any such condition include in a licence , unless the Board direct the Secretary of State to do so ( and must , if the Board so direct , include , vary or cancel such a condition ) . ' " this amendment introduce a requirement for the Parole Board to have oversight of new restriction zone which will confine offender to specific area in the community while on licence . amendment 44 , page 48 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the Secretary of State must , before lay regulation commencing subsection ( 4 ) of this section , undertake an assessment of the potential effect of a drive prohibition condition on a person ' s ability to attend — ( a ) employment , ( b ) education , or ( c ) a rehabilitation programme . ( 11 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report of the assessment carry out under subsection ( 10 ) include recommendation on — ( a ) offender rehabilitation , ( b ) offender reintegration , and ( c ) any other matter that the Secretary deem appropriate . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State , before commence the drive prohibition provision in the Bill , to publish a report on their potential effect on the ability of ex - offender to attend employment , education and rehabilitation provider . amendment 45 , page 48 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the Secretary of State must , before lay regulation commencing subsection ( 7 ) of this section , undertake and publish an assessment of the potential effect of a restriction zone condition on a person ' s ability to attend — ( a ) employment , ( b ) education , or ( c ) a rehabilitation programme . ( 11 ) the court may provide for exemption in a restriction zone condition to allow a person to attend employment , education or a rehabilitation programme . ( 12 ) a probation officer may vary a restriction zone condition impose by the court to allow a person to attend employment , education or a rehabilitation programme . ( 13 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament , each year , a report on — ( a ) the number of people subject to a restriction zone condition , ( b ) the number of case where a restriction zone condition have include an exemption or modification to allow a person to attend employment , education or a rehabilitation programme , and ( c ) evidence on the effect of restriction zone condition on reoffende and rehabilitation . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State , before implement the relevant provision , to assess the potential effect of a restriction zone condition on an ex - offender ' s ability to attend education , employment or a rehabilitation programme . it would allow for exemption to restriction zone condition , and require an annual report on their use and effectiveness . clause 24 and 25 stand part . amendment 33 , in clause 26 , page 50 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 254 ( recall of prisoner while on licence ) , in subsection ( 1 ) after ' prison ' insert — ' where there be evidence of consistent non - compliance with licence condition or a specific and imminent risk of harm . ' " this amendment give effect to the recommendation 4 . 3 of the Independent Sentencing Review for " strict criterion and threshold " for recall . clause 26 to 28 stand part . amendment 22 , in clause 29 , page 55 , line 5 , leave out " both " and insert " more " . this amendment be link to NC5 and amendment 23 . amendment 23 , page 55 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) the third condition be that the basis for p ' s recall be that p have breach a license condition , civil order , or criminal order in relation to the victim of the crime for which p be serve the sentence in question . " this amendment be link to NC5 and amendment 22 . clause 29 to 34 stand part . amendment 32 , in clause 35 , page 65 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) before make regulation under section 46 to bring this section into force , the Secretary of State must issue a code of practice give guidance to provider of probation service about how to discharge those function lawfully have regard to — ( a ) section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 , and ( b ) the data protection legislation ( see section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 ) . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may not issue a code of practice under subsection ( 7 ) unless — ( a ) the Secretary of State have consult provider of probation service and any other person the Secretary of State consider appropriate about a draft of the code , ( b ) the Secretary of State have lay a draft of the code before each House of Parliament , and ( c ) each House of Parliament have by a resolution approve the draft of the code . " this amendment prevent clause 35 from be bring into force until the Secretary of State have issue a code of practice to provider of probation service about how to take and publish photograph lawfully in light of the Human Rights Act 1998 and the data protection legislation . before issue a code of practice , the Secretary of State must consult provider of probation service , lie a draft before Parliament and obtain approval from both Houses . clause 35 to 44 stand part . government amendment 19 . clause 45 stand part . government amendment 20 . clause 46 and 47 stand part . government new clause 1 — deportation of foreign criminal — new clause 2 — electronic monitoring : oversight — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part 14 of Schedule 9 , in paragraph 31 ( electronic monitoring : person responsible for monitoring ) , after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) regulation under this section must ensure that — ( a ) electronic monitoring be oversee by the Probation Service ; ( b ) the fitting of necessary apparatus for the purpose of electronic monitoring may only be undertake by those in the employment of an organisation with responsibility for deliver electronic monitoring ; and ( c ) the fitting of necessary apparatus may not be undertake by an employee of HM Prison and Probation Service unless the responsibility for the delivery of electronic monitoring be hold solely by HM Prison and Probation Service . ' " this new clause would ensure that the probation service oversee electronic monitoring , and that prison officer would not be responsible for fitting tag unless tagging contract be bring into the public sector . new clause 3 — Unpaid work requirement : community work — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 3 of Part 1 of schedule 9 ( restriction on impose unpaid work requirement ) , after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) insert — ' ( c ) that the unpaid work be work undertake for a non - profit organisation , social enterprise , voluntary organisation or local authority . " ' this new clause would prohibit private sector involvement in unpaid work as part of a community sentence . new clause 4 — probation capacity : independent report — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , a report must be publish and lay before Parliament by HM Inspectorate of Probation ( ' the Inspectorate ' ) determine whether there be adequate capacity in the Probation Service to meet provision of this Act anticipate to increase level of demand on the Probation Service . ( 2 ) if the report under subsection ( 1 ) determine that the capacity of the Probation Service be inadequate , provision of this Act anticipate to increase level of demand on the Probation Service may not come into force until a further report determine that the Probation Service have adequate capacity . ( 3 ) follow a report under subsection ( 1 ) , the Inspectorate must publish and lie before Parliament a further report , no less than once every twelve month , determine whether there be adequate capacity in the Probation Service . ( 4 ) if a report under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) determine that the capacity of the Probation Service be inadequate , the Inspectorate may direct that a prioritisation framework must be issue to the area in which the capacity concern apply , in order to provide local service with guidance about which activity to deprioritise . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must , within two week of the laying of a report under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 3 ) with a finding of inadequate capacity , make a statement to Parliament set out how probation capacity will be increase to an adequate level . " this new clause would ensure that the provision of this Bill likely to increase demand on the Probation Service can not be implement until HM Inspectorate of Probation determine that there be adequate capacity to address those demand , and would enable the Inspectorate to trigger the issuing of a prioritisation framework to help local area to identify which activity to deprioritise . new clause 5 — further release after recall : offender eligible for risk - assess release — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 255C , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — ( 3A ) subsection ( 3b ) apply if the basis for p ' s recall be that p have breach a license condition , civil order , or criminal order in relation to the victim of a crime for which p be serve a sentence . ( 3b ) where this subsection apply — ( a ) at the end of the period of 56 day begin with the day on which p return to custody , p must be consider for referral for executive release rather than automatic release ; ( b ) if p be refer for consideration for executive release , the Secretary of State may release p again on licence , and ( c ) if p be not refer for consideration for executive release , or if p be deny executive release , the Secretary of State must refer p ' s case to the Board . " this new clause , along with amendment 22 and 23 , would ensure that offender who have be recall to prison on the basis of a breach of license condition or of an order relate to the victim be risk - assess , to determine whether it be safe for they to be re - release into the community , rather than be automatically release after 56 day . new clause 6 — Lifetime driving ban for death by dangerous or careless driving and related offence — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person be convict of an offence under section 1 , 2B , 3zb , 3zc or 3A of the Road Traffic Act 1988 . ( 2 ) where this section apply , notwithstanding the provision of chapter 1 of Part 8 of the Sentencing Code ( drive disqualification ) , the driver must be ban from drive for life . " this new clause would mean that anyone who cause death by dangerous or careless driving ( or relate offence ) would be ban from drive for life . new clause 7 — under - 18 anonymity for case involve serious crime — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person ( ' p ' ) age under 18 — ( a ) have be convict of an offence ; and ( b ) will receive a custodial sentence of four or more year . ( 2 ) where this section apply , prior to deliver sentencing remark , the court must lift any reporting restriction identify p . ( 3 ) this section apply notwithstanding the provision of chapter IV of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 . " this new clause would require report restriction to be lift at the point of sentencing for young offender who have receive a sentence of four or more year . new clause 8 — victim personal statement — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State shall , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue revise guidance on the content of victim personal statement . ( 2 ) the revised guidance issue under subsection ( 1 ) must stipulate that when make a victim personal statement , a victim shall be able to say anything they wish about the defendant , provide it be not contrary to any statutory limitation on free speech , make allegation of untried criminal conduct or be disorderly language . ( 3 ) the court must disregard any prejudicial comment make during a victim personal statement . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review how to make victim personal statement less restrictive and clarify what can be include . new clause 9 — duty to collect and publish datum on sentencing — " ( 1 ) within 24 hour of the conclusion of the passing of a sentence , the relevant court must provide HM Courts and Tribunals Service ( ' hmct ' ) with information regard — ( a ) the offence category ; ( b ) the sentence length ; and ( c ) such information about the sentence individual as the Secretary of State may specify in regulation , but which must include — ( i ) nationality , ( ii ) sex at birth , ( iii ) country of birth , ( iv ) method of entry to the United Kingdom , ( v ) visa route , ( vi ) visa status , and ( vii ) asylum status . ( 2 ) hmct must collect and record the information set out in subsection ( 1 ) in a safe and secure manner . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish statistic on the information set out in subsection ( 1 ) no less than once every three month . " this new clause would require HMCTS to collect datum and other information on sentencing and sentence offender , and would require the Government to publish statistic on that datum every three month . new clause 10 — court transcript of sentencing remark — " ( 1 ) all transcript of sentencing remark make in the Crown Court must be publish within two sit day of be deliver . ( 2 ) all publish sentencing remark must be make freely available , include online . " this new clause would require all sentencing remark make in the Crown Court to be publish and make available to all . new clause 11 — prohibit step order — " ( 1 ) the Children Act 1989 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 8 ( child arrangement order and other order with respect to child ) , in the closing word of subsection ( 3 ) , after ' include ' insert ' proceeding in the Crown Court or Magistrate ' s Court under section 10a or ' . ( 3 ) after section 10 insert — ' 10A Duty of a sentencing court to make a prohibit step order in respect of sexual offence ( 1 ) this section apply where an offender have parental responsibility for a child and the offender be convict of a sexual offence involve any child victim . ( 2 ) where this section apply , a court must make a prohibit step order when sentence the offender . ( 3 ) a prohibit step order make under this section must — ( a ) cease to have effect if an offender be acquit on appeal for the offence in relation to which the prohibit step order be impose ; and ( b ) continue to have effect during an offender ' s licence period after release for the relevant offence . ( 4 ) a prohibit step order make under this section be to be treat for the purpose of section 31f ( 6 ) of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984 ( proceeding and decision ) as if it be make by the family court . ' " this new clause would require the court to make a " prohibit step order " ( PSO ) – prevent a parent from take a specific action or set of action regard their child – after the conviction of a person with parental responsibility for a sexual offence involve a child victim . new clause 12 — unduly lenient sentence scheme : victim — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 36 ( review of sentencing ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) an application may be make to the Attorney General to review any sentence pass by a Crown Court under the term set out in this section . ( 2b ) an application under subsection ( 2A ) must be make within — ( a ) one year of the sentence be pass , if the application be make by — ( i ) the victim of the offence for which the sentence be pass ; or ( ii ) the next of kin of a deceased victim or a victim who lack capacity ; or ( b ) 56 day of the sentence be pass , if make by any other person . ( 2C ) the Crown Prosecution Service must write to — ( a ) any victim of any offence for which a sentence have be pass in the Crown Court ; or ( b ) the next of kin of any deceased victim ; within 10 working day of a sentence be pass , to provide detail of the Unduly Lenient Sentence scheme , the application process for the scheme , and the deadline set out in subsection ( 2b ) of this section . ' " this new clause would extend the deadline for application to the Unduly Lenient Sentences Scheme from 28 day to 56 day , or for a year for victim of crime ( or the next of kin of deceased victim ) . it would also require the CPS to notify victim about the scheme . new clause 13 — sexual offence : offender personality disorder pathway — " ( 1 ) the Prison Rules 1999 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 20 ( Health service ) , after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , insert — ' ( 1A ) provision under subsection ( 1 ) must include access , for all eligible prisoner serve custodial sentence for sexual offence , to service provide under the Offender Personality Disorder Pathway . ' " this new clause would require the Government to provide access to the Offender Personality Disorder Pathway to all eligible prisoner serve sentence for sexual offence . new clause 14 — sexual offence : chemical suppression — " within one year of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report on how most effectively to introduce mandatory chemical suppression for certain individual serve sentence for sexual offence , with appropriate legal and clinical safeguard . " this new clause would require the Government to publish a report on mandatory chemical suppression for certain sex offender . new clause 15 — Sentencing Council : abolition — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Council ( establish under section 118 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ) be abolish . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may prepare — ( a ) sentencing guideline which may be general in nature or limit to a particular offence , particular category of offence or particular category of offender ; ( b ) sentence guideline about the discharge of a court ' s duty under section 73 of the Sentencing Code ( reduction in sentence for guilty plea ) ; and ( c ) sentence guideline about the application of any rule of law as to the totality of sentence . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may prepare sentence guideline about any other matter . ( 4 ) when develop sentencing guideline , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) promote understanding of , and public confidence in , the sentencing and criminal justice system ; ( b ) consult Parliament on all draft guideline ; and ( c ) publish the reason for propose any guideline that could result in an offender receive a short sentence than that set out in an Act of Parliament . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may report , from time to time , on the impact of sentence guideline on sentencing practice . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must monitor — ( a ) the application of the sentencing guideline ; and ( b ) the impact on victim of sentencing decision . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision under this section . ' this new clause would abolish the Sentencing Council , give the Secretary of State the power to publish Sentencing guideline , and impose various requirement link to consultation and monitoring . new clause 16 — whole life order : murder of a police or prison officer — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 2 of Schedule 21 ( determination of minimum term in relation to mandatory life sentence for murder etc ) , in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) , after ' duty , ' , insert ' or if the motivation for the murder be connect to the police officer or prison officer ' s current or former duty , ' " this new clause would expand the circumstance in which it be appropriate to apply a whole life order for murder a prison or police officer , to include murder motivate by the victim ' s current or former duty . new clause 17 — management of offender : devolution to Wales — " ( 1 ) schedule 7a of the Government of Wales Act 2006 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Paragraph 175 ( prison and offender management ) — ( a ) omit sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ; and ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , omit ' probation ' ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision under this section . " this new clause seek to devolve probation service and offender management to Wales , by remove it from the list of reserved matter in the Government of Wales Act 2006 . new clause 18 — report on use of electronic monitoring requirement — " in the Sentencing Code , in Part 14 of schedule 9 ( electronic monitoring ) , after paragraph 35 insert — ' 36 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each calendar year prepare a report on the imposition of the electronic monitoring requirement during that year . ( 2 ) the report must set out — ( a ) the number of electronic monitoring requirement impose during the year ; ( b ) the number of electronic monitoring requirement impose on offender under 18 during the year ; ( c ) the rate of compliance with the electronic monitoring requirement during the year ; ( d ) the cost of administer the electronic monitoring requirement during the year ; ( e ) the average amount of time take during the year to activate a device use for the purpose of an electronic monitoring requirement after such a requirement take effect ; ( f ) the number of device use for the purpose of the electronic monitoring requirement that malfunction during the year . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must — ( a ) publish the report , and ( b ) lie a copy of the publish report before Parliament . ' " this new clause require the Secretary of State to prepare and publish a report each calendar year on the use of electronic monitoring requirement . the report must include the number of electronic monitoring requirement impose each year , the rate of compliance and the cost of administer the requirement each year . the report must be lay before Parliament . new clause 19 — re - sentence those serve a sentence of imprisonment for public protection — " ( 1 ) the Lord Chancellor must make arrangement to ensure that every person serve an IPP sentence , whether in prison or the community , have be re - sentence in accordance with this section within 24 month of the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) the Lord Chancellor must establish a committee to provide advice regard the discharge of the Lord Chancellor ' s duty under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the committee establish by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) must — ( a ) include a judge nominate by the Lord Chief Justice ; and ( b ) within 12 month of be appoint , lie a report before Parliament on the process of re - sentence individual serve an IPP sentence . ( 4 ) the Lord Chancellor may disband the committee establish under subsection ( 2 ) after a report have be lay under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) . ( 5 ) the Lord Chancellor must disband the committee once all those serve IPP sentence have be re - sentence under this section . ( 6 ) subject to subsection ( 8 ) , a Crown Court designate by the Lord Chancellor ( " the re - sentence court " ) must re - sentence a person serve an IPP sentence in relation to the offence or offence for which they be previously sentence to an IPP sentence . ( 7 ) the re - sentencing court must not impose a sentence more severe than the notional determinate sentence upon which the IPP sentence be base . ( 8 ) the re - sentencing court may confirm the IPP sentence only if — ( a ) the re - sentence court determine that , at the date of the original sentencing , ignore the alternative of an IPP sentence , the person serve the IPP sentence might appropriately have receive a whole life order under section 321 of the Sentencing Act 2020 ; and ( b ) at the date of re - sentencing , there be a substantial risk of P commit a further offence if release . ( 9 ) the re - sentencing court may only confirm an IPP sentence where the judge hear the matter be authorise to try case of murder . ( 10 ) the re - sentencing court may recommend that the re - sentence person may be subject to an extended licence , if the re - sentencing court consider this appropriate . ( 11 ) in relation to the exercise of the power in subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) that power be to be treat as a power to re - sentence under section 402 ( 1 ) of the Sentencing Act 2020 ; ( b ) the Sentencing Code apply for the purpose of this section ( and , accordingly , it do not matter that a person serve an IPP sentence be convict of an offence before 1 December 2020 ) . ( 12 ) the Lord Chancellor must , at the end of every twelve - month period begin with the day this section come into force , lie before Parliament a report that set out — ( a ) the number of person who have be re - sentence under subsection ( 6 ) ; ( b ) the number of person who have have their sentence confirm under subsection ( 8 ) . ( 13 ) for the purpose of this section , " ipp sentence " mean — ( a ) a sentence of imprisonment or detention in a young offender institution for public protection under section 225 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ; or ( b ) a sentence of detention for public protection under section 226 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ; or ( c ) a sentence of indeterminate imprisonment or detention pass as a result of section 219 or 221 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ; ( 14 ) this section come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this new clause would implement the recommendation of the Justice Select Committee ' s 2022 report that there should be a resentencing exercise in relation to all IPP sentence individual , and to establish a time - limit expert committee , include a member of the judiciary , to advise on the practical implementation of such an exercise . new clause 20 — provision for a prisoner to apply to the Parole Board for a licence termination review follow expiry of the qualifying period on annual basis — " ( 1 ) the Crime ( Sentences ) Act 1997 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 31a ( imprisonment or detention for public protection : termination of licence ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — ' ( 3A ) where — ( a ) the prisoner have be release on licence under this chapter ; ( b ) the qualifying period have expire ; and ( c ) if his case have be consider for termination previously by the Parole Board and a period of at least twelve month have expire since the disposal of that application , the prisoner may make an application to the Parole Board under this subsection . ' ( 3 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) after ' reference ' insert ' or application ' ; after ' subsection ( 3 ) ' insert ' or ( 3A ) ' . " this new clause would allow a prisoner whose licence have not be terminate by the Parole Board two or three year after their first release to make an application annually to the Parole Board for termination . this would increase the opportunity for licence to be terminate . new clause 21 — further release after recall : requirement for a review — " ( 1 ) before section 27 to 30 come into force , the Secretary of State must publish a review of the effectiveness of Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( suitability for Fixed Term Recall ) Order 2025 , include but not limit to — ( a ) an evaluation of its impact on — ( i ) public protection ; ( ii ) rehabilitation ; ( iii ) reconviction ; ( iv ) probation capacity and resource ; and ( b ) an assessment of how any learning from the evaluation specify in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) will be apply to the implementation of the provision of section 27 to 30 of this Act . ( 2 ) a copy of the review must be lay before both Houses of Parliament . " this new clause provide an opportunity for the current legislation for recall to be review prior to new legislation be roll out , to ensure it be effective and adequately protect the public . new clause 22 — Review of sentence follow a change in law — " ( 1 ) where a person be serve or subject to a sentence impose for an offence , and — ( a ) the offence have be abolish , or ( b ) there have be a change in the law which materially alter the sentence that would be impose for the same offence follow that change in the law , that person may apply to the sentencing court , or to such other court as may be prescribe , for a review of the sentence . ( 2 ) on such an application , the court may — ( a ) quash the sentence and resentence the person in accordance with the exist law ; or ( b ) make such other order as necessary in the interest of justice . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision for the procedure and eligibility criterion for application under this section . " this new clause would allow a person still serve a sentence under a law that have change to seek review or resentence in line with the exist law . new clause 23 — Review of the impact of a change in the law on unspent conviction — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report review — ( a ) the effect of change in the criminal law , whether legislative or judicial , on those serve sentence for offence that would attract a different sentence follow the subsequent change to the criminal law ; and ( b ) the adequacy of exist mechanism for address any perceive injustice arise from such change . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must thereafter lay a further report under subsection ( 1 ) every three year . ( 3 ) a report make under this section must include — ( a ) recommendation for legislative or administrative step to prevent any instance of injustice arise from change in the law ; and ( b ) datum on the number of person serve sentence in the scenario set out in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and , of those , the number who remain imprisoned . " this new clause would create a statutory duty for the Government to review , on a recur basis , how change to the law affect those already convict or sentence . new clause 24 — Sentencing Council — " the Sentencing Council of England and Wales be abolish . " new clause 25 — deportation of foreign criminal — " ( 1 ) a foreign criminal who have be sentence to — ( a ) a custodial sentence of at least 6 month ; or ( b ) a community sentence of at least 6 month , must be the subject of an immediate deportation order , subject to subsection ( 2 ) below . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may determine , in exceptional case , that a deportation order under subsection ( 1 ) do not apply . ( 3 ) in this section , ' foreign criminal ' mean a person who — ( a ) be not a british citizen or an irish citizen , and ( b ) be convict in the United Kingdom of an offence . " this new clause be intend to replace Clause 42 . it would apply an automatic deportation order to foreign criminal sentence to at least six month ' imprisonment or a six month community sentence . new clause 26 — criminal case review — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 36 ( review of sentencing ) , insert — ' Part IVB - CRIMINAL case REVIEW ( PUBLIC PETITION ) 36a scope of this Part ( 1 ) a case to which this Part apply may be refer to the Court of Appeal under section 2 below . ( 2 ) subject to Rules of Court , the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal under section 36b shall be exercise by the criminal division of the Court , and reference to the Court of Appeal in this part shall be construe as reference to that division . ( 3 ) this Part apply to any case — ( a ) of a description specify in an order under this section ; or ( b ) in which sentence be pass on a person — ( i ) for an offence triable only on indictment ; or ( ii ) for an offence of a description specify in an order under this section . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by order provide that this section shall apply to any case of a description specify in the order or to any case in which sentence be pass on a person for an offence triable either way of a description specify in the order . ( 5 ) a statutory instrument contain an order under this section shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . ( 6 ) in this part , " sentence " have the same meaning as in the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 , except that it do not include an interim hospital order under Part III of the Mental Health Act 1983 , and " sentencing " shall be construe accordingly . ( 7 ) in its application to Northern Ireland , this section shall have effect subject to the modification set out in subsection ( 8 ) to ( 11 ) . ( 8 ) subsection ( 2 ) shall not apply to Northern Ireland . ( 9 ) in this section — " offence triable only on indictment " mean an offence punishable only on conviction on indictment ; " offence triable either way " mean an offence punishable on conviction on indictment or on summary conviction ; and any reference in subsection ( 4 ) to the Secretary of State must be construe as a reference to the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland . ( 10 ) for subsection ( 5 ) , in Northern Ireland an order under subsection ( 4 ) shall be a statutory rule for the purpose of the Statutory Rules ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1979 ( and not a statutory instrument ) , and any such order shall be subject to negative resolution ( within the meaning of section 41 ( 6 ) of the Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 ) . ( 11 ) reference in subsection ( 6 ) to the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 and Part III of the Mental Health Act 1983 shall be respectively construe as reference to Part I of the Criminal Appeal ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1980 and Part III of the Mental Health ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1986 . 36b criminal case review ( public petition ) ( 1 ) if it appear to any adult british citizen age 18 or over — ( a ) that the sentencing of a person in a proceeding in the Crown Court ( " the person sentence " ) have be unduly lenient or unduly harsh ; and ( b ) that the case be one to which section 36a apply , that british citizen ( " the petitioner " ) may refer the case to the Criminal Cases Review Commission ( " the Commission " ) for it to review the sentencing of the person sentence , in accordance with section 36c below , and if the Commission refer the case to the Court of Appeal , upon such a reference the Court of Appeal may — ( i ) quash any sentence pass on the person sentence ; and ( ii ) in place of it pass such sentence as they think appropriate for the case and as the low court have power to pass when deal with the person sentence , provide that the petitioner have file the reference with the Commission in writing , sign by at least 500 signature ( " the co - petitioner " ) include his own . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation stipulate the information and form that the petitioner must provide when file the reference . ( 3 ) without prejudice to the generality of subsection ( 1 ) above , the condition specify in paragraph ( a ) of that subsection may be satisfied whether or not it appear that the judge — ( a ) err in law as to his power of sentencing ; or ( b ) fail to comply with a mandatory sentence requirement under section 399 ( b ) or ( c ) of the Sentencing Code . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this Part , any two or more sentence be to be treat as pass in the same proceeding if they would be so treat for the purpose of section 11 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 . ( 5 ) where a reference under this section relate to a minimum term order make under section 321 of the Sentencing Code , the Court of Appeal shall not , in decide what order under that section be appropriate for the case , make any allowance for the fact that the person to whom it relate be be sentence for a second time . ( 6 ) no judge shall sit as a member of the Court of Appeal on the hearing of , or shall determine any application in proceeding incidental or preliminary to , a reference under this section of a sentence pass by himself . ( 7 ) where the Court of Appeal have conclude its review of a case refer to it under this section , and give its judgment thereon , the Court of Appeal , the petitioner or the person sentence may refer a point of law involve in any sentence pass on the person sentence to the Supreme Court for its opinion , and the Supreme Court shall consider the point and give its opinion on it accordingly , and either remit the case to the Court of Appeal to be deal with or itself deal with the case . ( 8 ) a reference under subsection ( 6 ) shall be make only with the leave of the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court and leave shall not be grant unless it be certify by the Court of Appeal that the point of law be of general public importance and it appear to the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court ( as the case may be ) that the point be one which ought to be consider by the Supreme Court . ( 9 ) for the purpose of deal with a case under this section , the Supreme Court may exercise any power of the Court of Appeal . ( 10 ) in the application of this section to Northern Ireland — ( a ) subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) shall read as if for the word after " fail to " there be substitute " impose a sentence require by — ( i ) article 70 ( 2 ) of the Firearms ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2004 , ( ii ) paragraph 2 ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) of Schedule 2 to the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 , ( iii ) article 13 or 14 of the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 , or ( iv ) section 7 ( 2 ) of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation ( Criminal Justice and Support for Victims ) Act ( Northern Ireland ) 2015 " . ( b ) the reference to section 11 and 35 ( 1 ) of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 shall be read as reference to section 10 ( 2 ) and 33 ( 1 ) of the Criminal Appeal ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1980 , respectively ; and ( c ) the reference in subsection ( 3A ) to a minimum term order make under section 321 of the Sentencing Code shall be read as a reference to an order under article 5 ( 1 ) of the Life Sentences ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2001 . 36C the Commission ( 1 ) the Commission under section 36b be the same body as that establish under section 8 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 and the provision of section 8 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 shall apply to the role of the Commission under this Part . ( 2 ) section 9 , 10 , and 12a to 25 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 shall apply to this Part . ( 3 ) the Commission must review all case refer to it within 8 week of receive any such referral and must , within that time , make its decision . ( 4 ) if the Commission decide that the case should be refer to the Court of Appeal by reason of an unduly harsh sentence then , immediately upon receipt of the referral , the Court of Appeal must make an order that the person sentence be release on temporary licence ( " ROTL " ) until further order of the court , and the Court of Appeal must also determine suitable bail condition , if any and the person sentence must remain rotl until the Court of Appeal have determine the referral . " ' new clause 27 — foreign criminal : stalk — ' ( 1 ) the UK Borders Act 2007 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 32 ( automatic deportation ) insert — " 32a deportation follow stalk offence ( 1 ) this section apply where a foreign criminal — ( a ) have be convict of an offence under section 2A or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or section 42a of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 ; and ( b ) be subject to a deportation order under this Act . ( 2 ) where this section apply , prior to deportation , a risk assessment must be prepare to assess the likelihood after deportation of the foreign criminal — ( a ) commit an offence which , be it to be commit in England or Wales , would constitute a further offence under section 2A or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 or section 42a of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 ; or ( b ) contact or seek to contact the victim of the offence for which the foreign criminal be convict in England or Wales . ( 3 ) a risk assessment prepare under this section must be share , subject to the requirement of the Data Protection Act 2018 , with the relevant authority in the country to which the foreign criminal will be deport . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make further provision under this section . ' " this new clause would require the preparation of a risk assessment for any foreign criminal be deport after a stalk conviction , and for the assessment to be share with the authority in the country to which the offender be return . new clause 28 — gambling treatment requirement — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 201 ( community order : community order requirement table ) , after the entry in the table relate to the alcohol abstinence and monitor requirement , insert — ' ( 3 ) in schedule 9 ( community order and suspend sentence order : requirement ) , after Part 12 insert — " part 12a - gambling TREATMENT REQUIREMENT 26a ( 1 ) in this Code " gambling treatment requirement " , in relation to a relevant order , mean a requirement that during a period specify in the order the offender must seek gambling addiction treatment through the National Health Service . ( 2 ) in this paragraph — ( a ) " gambling treatment " , in relation to an offender , mean — ( i ) treatment provide through a specialist NHS gambling service or gambling clinic ; or ( ii ) another form of NHS treatment determine by a qualified clinician to have the good chance of reduce or eliminate the offender ' s gambling addiction ; and ( b ) " qualified clinician " mean an NHS clinical psychologist or a psychiatrist with appropriate professional qualification . ( 3 ) sub - paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) apply to a relevant order which impose a gambling treatment requirement . ( 4 ) the order may specify separate period comprise the period specify under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) . ( 5 ) for each treatment period , the order may specify the treatment provider but must not otherwise specify the nature of the treatment . ( 6 ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) , " treatment period " mean — ( a ) if the order specify separate period under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , any of those period ; ( b ) otherwise , the period specify under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) . " ' " this new clause would introduce a new gambling treatment requirement , require an offender to seek nhs gambling addiction treatment as part of a community order . new clause 29 — gambling addiction : support for offender — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish a report on how the Government will ensure that — ( a ) sentencing court treat gambling disorder as a mental disorder for the purpose of section 232 of the Sentencing Code ; ( b ) sentencing court have access to appropriate clinical advice on the impact of a gambling disorder on offend behaviour , where relevant ; and ( c ) offender have access to treatment and peer support for gambling disorder , both in prison and in the community . ( 2 ) within twelve month of the publication of a report under subsection ( 1 ) above and annually thereafter , the Secretary of State must publish a further report on progress against the objective set out in subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause would require the Government to report to Parliament on how it will improve support for offender with gambling addiction and ensure that gambling disorder be recognise as a mental health condition by sentence court . new clause 30 — re - sentence those serve a sentence of imprisonment for public protection — " ( 1 ) the Lord Chancellor must make arrangement for , and relate to , the re - sentencing of all prisoner serve IPP sentence within 18 month begin on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) those arrangement must include arrangement relate to the establishment of a committee to provide advice regard the discharge of the Lord Chancellor ' s duty under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the committee establish by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) must include a judge nominate by the Lord Chief Justice . ( 4 ) a court that impose an IPP sentence have the power to re - sentence the prisoner in relation to the original offence . ( 5 ) but the court may not impose a sentence that be a heavy penalty than the sentence that be impose for the original offence . ( 6 ) in relation to the exercise of the power in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) that power be to be treat as a power to re - sentence under the Sentencing Code ( see section 402 ( 1 ) of the Sentencing Act 2020 ) ; ( b ) the Code apply for the purpose of this section ( and , accordingly , it do not matter that a person serve an IPP sentence be convict of an offence before 1 December 2020 ) . ( 7 ) in this section — ' IPP sentence ' mean a sentence of imprisonment or detention in a young offender institution for public protection under section 225 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 or a sentence of detention for public protection under section 226 of that Act ( include such a sentence of imprisonment or detention pass as a result of section 219 or 221 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ) ; ' original offence ' mean the offence in relation to which the IPP sentence be impose . ( 8 ) this section come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " this new clause would implement the recommendation of the Justice Committee ' s 2022 report that there should be a resentencing exercise in relation to all IPP sentence individual , and to establish a time - limit expert committee , include a member of the judiciary , to advise on the practical implementation of such an exercise . new clause 31 — Use of fund raise through income reduction order — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the potential benefit and cost of direct the fund raise from income reduction order into a fund that provide support for victim . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment under subsection ( 1 ) before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to undertake an assessment of the potential benefit of use the monie raise through income reduction order to fund support for victim . new clause 32 — probation caseload — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before lay regulation to commence the provision in this Act , establish maximum caseload limit for probation officer supervise individual subject to — ( a ) licence condition ; ( b ) community order ; or ( c ) any other form of court - impose supervision by the probation service . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , each year , lie before Parliament a report on compliance with the caseload limit set under this section . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to set maximum caseload for probation before implementation of the Act , and to report annually on compliance . new clause 33 — access to rehabilitation and support service — " ( 1 ) the probation service must ensure all individual subject to licence condition , community order , or other court - impose supervision have access to — ( a ) NHS mental health and substance misuse service , ( b ) education , training and employment support , and ( c ) approve behaviour change or offender behaviour programme . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament , each year , a report on the availability and use of the service provide under subsection ( 1 ) . " this new clause would require the probation service to ensure people under its supervision can access mental health and substance misuse service ; education , training and support ; and approve behaviour change or offender management programme , and to report annually on the availability and uptake of those service . new clause 34 — Digital system for track offender progress — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within one year of the passing of this Act , undertake an assessment of the benefit and cost of implement a digital sentence management system for prisoner and individual who be subject to supervision by the probation service . ( 2 ) the assessment must consider the follow potential function of a sentence management system — ( a ) tracking offender progress , ( b ) provide for the sharing of information between the court , probation service , and other relevant agency , subject to the UK General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act 2018 , ( c ) monitor compliance with rehabilitation programme , and ( d ) any other function that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to undertake an assessment of implement a digital sentence management system for prisoner and individual subject to supervision by the probation service . new clause 35 — specialist team for high - risk or complex offender — " ( 1 ) the probation service must undertake an assessment of the potential benefit of establish specialist probation team to supervise — ( a ) high - risk offender , ( b ) offender with complex mental health need , ( c ) offender with substance misuse need , and ( d ) young offender who be transition to adult supervision . ( 2 ) the assessment must consider the potential benefit of specialist probation team have low average caseload per probation officer . ( 3 ) the assessment must consider the potential arrangement for specialist probation team access support from other relevant agency . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment under this section before Parliament . " this new clause would require the probation service to assess the potential benefit of establish specialist probation team to supervise offender who be high - risk ; have complex mental health or substance misuse need ; and young offender transition to adult supervision . new clause 36 — domestic abuse aggravate offence — " ( 1 ) a court must treat an offence commit in England and Wales as domestic abuse aggravate , if — ( a ) the offender and the victim be personally connect to each other ; and ( b ) the offence involve behaviour which constitute domestic abuse . ( 2 ) in this section — ( a ) ' domestic abuse ' have the meaning give by section 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , and ( b ) ' personally connect ' have the meaning give by section 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . " this new clause would require a court to treat a domestic abuse offence as aggravate . new clause 37 — rehabilitative programme for offence relate to violence against woman and girl — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the potential benefit of create mandatory rehabilitative programme about woman and girl , for individual sentence for — ( a ) assault ; ( b ) battery ; or ( c ) actual bodily harm when the victim be a woman or girl . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment under this section before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to carry out an assessment of the potential benefit of create mandatory rehabilitative programme about woman and girl , for individual sentence for certain offence . new clause 38 — screen for traumatic brain injury — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the potential cost and benefit of screen all prisoner for traumatic brain injury at the start of their custodial sentence . ( 2 ) the assessment should consider — ( a ) how screen for traumatic brain injury could inform the management of a prisoner ' s sentence , ( b ) the health service and rehabilitation programme available for prisoner with traumatic brain injury , and ( c ) any other matter that the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within a year of the passing of this Act , lie a copy of the assessment make under this section before Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to carry out an assessment of the potential benefit of introduce standardised screening for traumatic brain injury for prisoner start a custodial sentence . new clause 39 — suspension of drive licence during bail for drive related offence — " ( 1 ) this section apply where an individual have be grant bail in respect of one of the following offence — ( a ) dangerous or careless driving ; ( b ) drink driving ; or ( c ) drug driving . ( 2 ) the court may suspend the drive licence of the individual , pende the outcome of any criminal proceeding . " this new clause would allow the court to suspend the drive licence of an individual charge for certain driving offence , pende the outcome of the trial . new clause 40 — access to rehabilitation programme and education for individual hold on remand — " ( 1 ) where an individual be hold in custodial remand pende sentencing , the probation service must provide access to the same rehabilitative programme that be available to prisoner after sentencing . ( 2 ) where an individual be hold in custodial demand pende trial , the probation service must provide access to the same — ( a ) education ; ( b ) therapy ; and ( c ) any other support that the probation service deem appropriate , that be available to prisoner after sentencing . " this new clause would allow prisoner hold on remand to access rehabilitative programme , education , therapy and other support before the start of their sentence . new clause 41 — no presumption of suspend sentence — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender be not a british citizen or an irish citizen . " new clause 42 — tagging of offender receive suspend sentence — " where a court have impose a suspend sentence , it must impose a condition that an offender must be subject to electronic monitoring for the duration of that sentence . " new clause 43 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 2 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , be an offence under section 1 of the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 or section 89 ( 1 ) of the Police Act 1996 . " new clause 44 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 3 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , either involve possession of or threaten with an article with a blade or point or an offensive weapon . " new clause 45 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 4 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , be aggravate by section 68a of the Sentencing Act 2020 ( assault on those provide a public service etc ) . " new clause 46 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 5 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender have commit or be convict of three other offence in the 12 month precede the offence . " new clause 47 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 6 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender have commit 10 or more other previous offence at the time of the offence or at the time of conviction for the offence . " new clause 48 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 7 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender have previously receive a suspend sentence order for the same offence . " new clause 49 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 8 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender have previously receive a custodial sentence for the same offence . " new clause 50 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 9 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , have a mandatory minimum sentence . " new clause 51 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 10 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , involve a firearm or ammunition include but not limit to the Firearms Act 1968 and the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 . " new clause 52 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 11 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , be one of burglary . " new clause 53 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 12 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , have a connection to terrorism , include but not limit to offence relate to terrorism under the Terrorism Act 2000 , the Terrorism Act 2006 and the Explosive Substances Act 1883 . " new clause 54 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 13 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , be one that fall under the Unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme under section 35 and 36 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 . " new clause 55 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 14 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender have breach previous suspend sentence order three or more time , either by fail to comply with the requirement of the order or by re - offend during the order ' s operational period . " new clause 56 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 15 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , be commit while the offender be subject to a supervision order . " new clause 57 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 16 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , be commit while the offender be on licence , or subject to supervision , under chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( release , licence , supervision and recall ) . " new clause 58 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 17 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offence , or an associated offence , be an offence under section 6 ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of the Bail Act 1976 ( failure to surrender to custody ) . " new clause 59 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 18 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender have a history of poor compliance with court order . " new clause 60 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 19 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender be be sentence for three or more offence . " new clause 61 — no presumption of suspend sentence ( no . 20 ) — " the presumption of a suspend sentence will not apply if the offender have already be convict of commit the same offence three or more time . " new clause 62 — Expiry — " this Act expire at the end of the period of 2 year begin with the day on which it be pass . " schedule 1 to 4 stand part . government new schedule 1 — sentence with fix licence period in Scotland or Northern Ireland : consequential provision — Government amendment 21 . I oppose the whole idea of force court to give suspend sentence when they should be send offender to prison . we all know that it be hard to get send to prison in the first place , and judge and magistrate do not send people to prison lightly . in fact , they do not send people to prison enough , as far as I can see , so it be extremely worrying that we be to force they to send even few people to prison . my amendment seek to address this issue . we can not make a silk purse out of a sow ' s ear , so it will not be possible to transform this disastrous Bill into a good one — all we can seek to do today be make it less bad . hon . member should be under no illusion : the Bill take a sledgehammer to our justice system , and will dismantle law and order in this country . to call the Bill a " sentencing " Bill make a mockery of we all . it should be call the " avoid a sentence " Bill , because it be a slap in the face to victim and will embolden offender , who will quite literally be laugh all the way to their next crime . let I put on record my support for amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) and the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , particularly in relation to the abolition of the Sentencing Council and the deportation of foreign criminal , but because of time constraint I will speak only to those amendment table in my name . the right hon . Lady suggest that the Bill will bring law and order into question , but as a former prison officer I would say it be the previous Government run our prison system to a boiling point that nearly bring law and order crash down , with few than 100 bed space available last summer . it might be poignant for Conservative Members to reflect a little during the debate on what they do to his Majesty ' s Prison Service while they be in office — and while I be serve . I thank the hon . Lady for make that point , although I would point out that under the last government three prison be build — HMP five Wells , HMP Fosse Way and HMP Millsike — which add an extra 8 , 500 place . three further prison will also be build . the active management of the prison service at those level of occupation be of course hard work , but that hard work be absolutely necessary , and far preferable to simply take a view that we will not have all those criminal in prison at all . the reality be that what we be do now be much bad . I agree with my right hon . friend . this disgrace of a Bill will not be send people to prison , and at the same time it will be let people out of prison . amendment 46 , 47 , 51 and 52 would change the length of sentence that qualify for the " get out of jail free " suspend sentence to those of less than 12 month and only before any credit be give for a guilty plea . sentence of 12 month or more be obviously give for more serious offence . as the Bill stand , I understand that those for whom a sentence of 18 month would be appropriate could hit the jackpot , because the credit of a guilty plea will be take into account . that will reduce the sentence to 12 month ; therefore , those people will qualify for a suspend sentence under this Bill . sentence of those length be not give for nothing , so I hope the Government will reflect on my amendment , which would reduce the maximum sentence that have to be suspend . I do a quick scan of my local paper to see who have get an 18 - month sentence , which could now become a suspend sentence . they include a lady who cause the unnecessary suffering of an animal and be in possession of a samurai sword , and a lady who glass a pregnant friend in the face . another sentence be for coercive and control behaviour , and that person also get a five - year restraining order . they could now all get suspend sentence . the Bill currently state that the presumption in favour of a suspend sentence need not apply " if the court be of the opinion that make the order would put a particular individual at significant risk of physical or psychological harm . " amendment 48 and 53 would extend that to include the public — who be , after all , a collection of individual . they , too , deserve protect . if the court be concern that an offender be likely to be a danger to the public , it should absolutely have the right to ensure that that offender go to prison , not back into the community on a suspend sentence . amendment 49 and 54 would change the risk level for not impose an immediate custodial sentence by remove the word " significant " . I would have think that any identifiable risk should be cover . we be talk about protect people ' s live ; we should not be play a game of russian roulette with they . ironically , it seem that the Sentencing Council have see thing similarly , as it have previously list this as a reason not reason to suspend a sentence . amendment 50 and 55 would mean that anyone not be send to prison as a result of this change , who otherwise would have be , would have to be give the maximum length of suspend sentence . in other word , the sentence would hang over they for the long possible time and they should not be give a short period , as could be the case with normal suspend prison sentence . new clause 42 would ensure that those give the suspend sentence be electronically tag throughout . use a tag to monitor someone ' s location out of prison could make they think twice about reoffende , and if they be to reoffend it could make detection and resentence much easy . other amendment concern the type of offend that we be allow to be include in this ridiculous prison avoidance legislation . so many offence will be cover by this exemption that be hard to know where to start . this have to be address , and I sincerely hope that the Government will accept my amendment . Most people will believe that we have completely lose the plot if we allow there to be some offence for which prison sentence can not generally be hand down . new clause 44 would exclude knife crime from be one of those offence . I can not believe that I have to table an amendment to prevent a whole load of criminal who carry knife from be keep out of prison — yet without my amendment , that be what this Bill will do . do no one anywhere think through what be be propose and how it will affect public safety ? it would be completely disgraceful for the Government ever to claim to be serious about tackle knife crime when , under the Bill , the presumption will be that many people carry a knife will no long be send to prison . how will that help to prevent the loss of life on our street ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for make that point , because many of we will have example in our constituency of family who have be tragically affect by knife crime . some go on to do amazing work to educate young people , but at the same time it be important that where a sentence have be give , it be carry out and that that deterrent be in place . yet again , we be see the removal of deterrent by the Labour Government . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that this Bill remove a deterrent . repeat knife offender be suppose to get a mandatory immediate custodial sentence of six month , minimum — not a guarantee , effectively , that they will evade prison because their sentence be 12 month or less . why would anyone think twice about carry a knife if they know that they will not see the inside of a cell , and that the court will be powerless to send they to prison ? I understand and appreciate the effect of knife crime ; we have all have case in our constituency that demonstrate the devastation that it cause . do the right hon . Member agree that we should focus on rehabilitation , and on prevent people from carry knife ? education on this issue be important . it be the way forward in ensure that knife crime be decrease . rehabilitation be key , but so be prison . prison for people who have commit crime be essential . prison be about remove a danger from society . we hear a lot about rehabilitation from Labour Members , and we hear a lot about recidivism . the most likely spur for recidivism be let people out who will continue to do harm . we will be tell by the Government that those people be be let out on licence , so will my right hon . friend invite the Minister to predict how many people will be recall while they be on licence ? the Justice Secretary have already describe that number as be too high , but will it rise as a result of these measure ? my right hon . friend make his point clear . the Minister be listen , and I hope that he will answer that question in his remark . People can not seriously think it be acceptable for those who commit offence involve firearm or ammunition , or even those who commit terror - relate offence , to be eligible for a suspend sentence , but as thing stand , those offence would be cover by the Bill . my new clause 51 and 53 would amend that ludicrous position , and new clause 52 would exclude burglar . we do not see nearly enough burglar in court , because of a lack of detection of their crime , so the one we do see in court should routinely go to prison , not be spare jail , as they would be under these measure . new clause 43 and 45 would mean that those assault our dedicated police officer or emergency worker would not be eligible for suspend sentence ; they be eligible for they under this Bill , and that be an absolute disgrace . when the Government be in opposition , they make a huge noise about how those who assault emergency worker , police officer and prison officer should be send to prison . for example , the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) introduce a private member ' s Bill that become the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 , under which the maximum prison sentence for assault on an emergency worker be increase from six month to 1 year . part of the problem be that all too often people do not feel that there will be justice at the end of the process . when in opposition , the right hon . member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) say : " the attitude … sadly exist across the criminal justice system … that be punch or kick be somehow to be expect and accept . . . . we will never accept that people should be assault while they be do their job and we will do everything in our power to protect they . " — [ Official Report , 20 October 2017 ; Vol . 629 , c . 1150 . ] the hon . member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) say : " we must put legislation in place to guarantee that a tough line will be take on anyone who assault an emergency worker . " — [ Official Report , 27 April 2018 ; Vol . 639 , c . 1172 . ] that be what Government Members say when they be in opposition , but they be ensure the exact opposite now ; these offender will be let out on a suspend sentence . I can not believe that Government Members would not join I in vote for new clause 43 . I would like to test the will and the temperature of the House on that matter , and I will not back down on that . the presumption in the Bill against immediate custody will also apply to those commit a host of other nasty , violent and sexual crime , all of whom will be eligible for these get - out - of - jail - free suspend sentence , if they be sentence to 12 month or less for their crime . new clause 50 would mean that offence with a mandatory minimum sentence would not be include in the Bill ; that would alleviate the damage in some case . new clause 54 would exclude from mandatory suspension sentence that can be appeal for be unduly lenient . the unduly lenient sentence scheme cover sexual offence ; stalk ; put someone in fear of violence , serious harm or distress ; control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship ; and inflict grievous bodily harm or unlawful wounding , among other offence . it would be nonsense for crime include among the most serious under the scheme to be deal with by way of a suspend sentence , instead of immediate custody . how would the measure in the Bill work on appeal ? would all sentence be overturn as be unduly lenient , or would the new law trump that scheme ? my new clause would inject a bit of common sense and avoid all these question . my other amendment mainly concern the past of the offender . it be bad enough that a first - time offender who have commit a serious crime will avoid prison , but it be outrageous that under the Bill , serial offender will be reward for reoffende . new clause 46 would mean that any offender who have commit three or more offence in the precede 12 month would not be eligible for a mandatory suspend sentence , and new clause 47 would stop they from qualify if they have commit 10 or more offence previously . People be commit multiple offence , yet the Government be let they off with a suspend sentence . eighty per cent of offender be reoffender because of the 14 year of mess that this Government be have to clear up . the real travesty of justice be that there be no prison cell available for people who be convict . the last Government fail to build the prison place that be need ; this Government will ensure that they exist , because they will always be need . it be as though the Conservatives leave the tap run and be whine about the flood that they let happen . I be glad that the hon . Lady raise that point . when I be bring back into the Cabinet Office , people in the left - lean civil service , in the Ministry of Justice , say , " let ' s let people out of prison . it ' s run too hot . " thankfully , I stand firm and say no , and so do the Conservative Government , unlike this Government , who have let thousand of people out of prison and be destine to do so again . I be afraid that this be ideological . Labour member do not think that more people should go to prison ; they think that those people should be in the community . that be ideological , and certainly not logical . it do not support law and order in this country , and it be a slap in the face for victim . on that point , will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will not . new clause 48 and 49 would mean that offender would not be eligible for a mandatory suspend sentence if they have previously be give a suspend sentence or an immediate prison sentence for the same offence . if an offender commit a burglary now and go to prison for it , and be convict of commit another burglary after the measure in the Bill come into force , it would be ludicrous if , instead of be give a long prison sentence — most people would think that be fair — they be give a suspend sentence ; however , the court would not have any other choice , in many circumstance . new clause 55 would exclude criminal who have previously breach suspend sentence on three or more occasion from qualify for a suspend sentence . it could be argue that those who have breach a suspend sentence once should not qualify . I completely agree , but I have decide that it should be " three strike and you ' re out " . People can not keep commit offence and keep get suspend sentence . another strong case for " three strike and you ' re out " be cover by new clause 61 , which cover offender who be convict of commit the same crime three or more time . someone who commit the same crime three or more time will now get only a suspend sentence . these people should be get appropriate prison sentence , not a guarantee of no prison sentence at all . new clause 59 list " poor compliance with court order " as a reason not to suspend a sentence . if a court can see that a criminal have not comply in the past with non - custodial alternative and be therefore highly likely to breach a suspend sentence , it should have the option of impose immediate custody on the offender . in fact , that be already what current and past sentencing guideline say about consider an optional suspend sentence , never mind a mandatory one , which criminal will have if this Bill be bring into being . under new clause 60 , offender be sentence in court for three or more offence at once could not expect a presumption in favour of a suspend sentence . all the example I have give come from judge and lawyer . these be not possibility , or scenario that I have dream up ; they be happen now . these people should go to prison — and they would have do , but the Government be let everybody out . that be why I say that we will be dismantle law and order in this country if this Bill go through . there be nothing to stop magistrate and judge hand out suspend sentence if they think that they be appropriate , but these amendment would not force they to hand they out when they be clearly not appropriate . that be what the Government be do . they be tie the hand of the justice system . the Government have already make amendment to early legislation after presumably realise that they have miss something . I hope that , on reflection , and have hear about some of the disaster that be about to befall the country as a result of this legislation , they will do likewise today . my new clause 56 be very similar to Government amendment 2 and 4 , for example , which will exclude those who be already subject to a suspend sentence . they have see one loophole , but the Bill be like a colander of loophole , and I hope that they will see a few more . the Government have not ensure that the Bill will not apply to those on licence . my new clause 57 say that those who have be release early from prison on licence should not be eligible for a presumption in favour of a suspend prison sentence if they offend again ; really , they should be lock up . what the right hon . Lady be put forward be a very logical and sensible way forward , but I be conscious that young people in particular can do something wrong in life , and then return to the area that they come from . they be subject to peer pressure , and can be affect by all the thing that happen in that community . sometimes , they probably need help from outside the legal system . have she consider that when put forward her amendment ? do they ensure that people get a second chance , and get help where they need it — in the place where they live ? we all believe in second chance , and that be where rehabilitation come into play . we be possibly deal with continual offending here . People have come before the court , be give some kind of community sentence or be subject to tagging , and still repeat their crime . we do not want they to think that there be absolutely no deterrent , and that they can commit crime as often as they want because they will get only a tiny slap on the wrist . People need to understand that their action be unacceptable . there be a victim , and a price to pay . some people will understand , go on the straight and narrow , and go on to have a good life , but not as a result of what be be deliver today . the Bill say , " commit a crime and you will not do any time . " that be wrong , wrong , wrong . it be the wrong message to send out . that really should not need say , but it seem that it do . how on earth can it be right that someone who have be release early from prison will get a second get - out - of - jail - free card ? that will happen under this ludicrous legislation . under new clause 41 , the presumption against prison would not apply to foreign national . if people come to this country and commit crime serious enough to warrant a custodial sentence , they should not be leave wander around our street freely as a result of this Bill . foreign offender should be deport , as protect the public be one of the main duty of a government — I will have to repeat that several time to the Government , who do not seem to understand that that be a major part of their duty — and in the meantime , those offender should be lock up . while we have to put up with our own british criminal , I do not see why we should be lenient to those who have come to this country and commit offence . I do not think the public will agree with the Government ' s Bill , either . I urge all my colleague in the House of Commons to think long and hard about the likely consequence of this Bill and the needless victim of crime it will inevitably create . anyone who allow the Bill to go through without amendment to protect the public will effectively have blood on their hand as soon as someone be injure or kill by a criminal who should have be in prison but be not as a direct result of this terrible new legislation . if the Bill go ahead , we should add my new clause 62 , which would insert a sunset clause , so that in two year ' time when we see what a catastrophic mess this Bill and this Government have create , we will all be glad that an end to it be in sight . the importance of the sunset clause be that it relieve the monstrous contradiction we have have from the Government . they have present this legislation as an emergency measure because the prison be too full , yet at the same time they boast about their great , expansive prison - build programme . clearly the two be at odd with one another . who will be put in these prison if this legislation persist ? that be why my right hon . friend ' s sunset clause be so important . my right hon . friend be exactly right . that be why I point out that the Bill be all about ideology ; it be not about logic . I mention the extra prison that be start in 2020 , when the previous Government give £ 4 billion to expand prison capacity , and three of those prison have be build . there be a delay and it be obviously slow — we be in lockdown for two year , which be why they be come on board now — but another three prison will be build . if people be really serious about clean up our street , get crime down and support victim , they will not vote for this Bill . prison place be either here or on their way . the Prisons Minister have say he think that only a third of prisoner should be in prison and that two third of they should be out on the street . that be why I say that this Bill be about ideology over logic and over the public . as I do at the start of my speech on Second Reading , I put on record the continue crisis in our prison . the prison population currently stand at 87 , 427 , with usable operational capacity be 89 , 286 . prison population projection estimate that the population could rise to more than 100 , 000 by March 2029 . that be an indictment of the previous Government and it give the lie to their mantra that this Bill be soft on crime ; we will have record number of people in prison . this Bill be a necessity , and we must make a virtue of that necessity . I welcome the principle of the Bill and the reform suggest in it . they be essential , both to reduce the prison population and to improve the way in which the justice system deal with punishment , rehabilitation and public safety . the measure in the Bill that derive from David Gauke ' s independent sentencing review include vary suspend sentence and short custodial sentence , adopt the earn progression model for release , and change to recall and licence . all have their risk , so the purpose of the amendment that I and other member of the Justice Committee have table — to which I now turn — be to reduce those risk and make practical improvement to the Bill . I have also table two new clause relate to imprisonment for public protection prisoner , who be not currently consider by the Bill — in my view , wrongly . the first amendment I have table be amendment 29 to clause 3 , which relate to income reduction order , or iro . these will act as financial penalty for offender , who will forfeit a percentage of their disposable income as a form of punishment and reparation . my amendment would change the definition of monthly income for the purpose of an IRO so that any amount of money that be require to be pay or deduct from an offender ' s monthly income because of other enactment , such as child support maintenance payment or an attachment of earning order , be not count . this will ensure that iro do not impact on an offender ' s ability to pay outstanding debt or , in the case of child support maintenance , to meet their obligation to support their child and family member in the community . my second set of amendment relate to clause 6 , which introduce a statutory requirement for court to make a formal finding of domestic abuse where relevant during sentencing . my amendment 30 and 31 introduce two procedural safeguard before a court can record that an offence involve domestic abuse . first , the court must have indicate that it appear that the offence may have involve domestic abuse . secondly , the court must have give the offender and the prosecutor an opportunity to adduce evidence and make representation before come to the view that an offence involve domestic abuse . the Chair of the Select Committee be talk about indication of domestic abuse . do he agree that , particularly in case of domestic abuse — as I have hear from constituent of mine — it be critical that resource be allocate through this Bill to the Probation Service and for electronic tagging ? the legislation allow for it , but do he agree that it be very important that the Government make clear how they will adequately resource those two element , so that victim of domestic abuse — who will have this indicator to identify that perpetrator have commit domestic abuse and violence — will be properly protect after the potential release of the perpetrator ? I do agree with that , and in a moment I will talk about a new clause that deal specifically with tagging . I be rattle through my speech because I have a lot to get through , but what I be specifically talk about in relation to domestic abuse be simply the need for there to be due process . that be something that I think we all want to see . amendment 30 and 31 would ensure that the requirement of clause 6 , which be important in allow police and probation service to track perpetrator of domestic abuse , be carry out in a manner that be as thorough and fair as possible . my next amendment , amendment 32 , relate to clause 35 , which amend the sentencing code to allow for the publication of the photograph and name of offender serve community sentence . the explanatory note say very little about this clause , but the justification in the memorandum on human right suggest that the Government believe that this measure will have a deterrent effect on criminal , although there be little evidence for that assertion . the measure engage the article 8 right to private and family life for the individual , their victim and their family . some concern have be raise about how this measure can be operate safety in the modern social medium age , in which photograph and name can be readily and quickly share . my amendment would prevent clause 35 from be bring into force until the Secretary of State have issue a code of practice to provider of probation service about how to take and publish photograph lawfully in the light of the Human Rights Act 1998 and datum protection legislation . before issue a code of practice , the Secretary of State must consult provider of probation service , lie a draft before Parliament , and obtain the approval of both Houses . that would ensure proper parliamentary oversight of this measure . the hon . Gentleman be indicate his diligence — as though any evidence of that be require — in table these technical but important amendment . however , will he deal with the fundamental issue ? as he have just say , the Criminal Justice Act 2003 — from memory , section 250 — allow criminal who be release on licence to be subject to all kind of condition , but the truth be that if we let more dangerous people out , more people will be recall , because they will do immense amount of harm . recall be go to go up as a result of this legislation , and many more people be go to suffer because of those who be let out early . I have quite a lot to say about recall , which I will come to in a moment , but I have reflect on this question . licence be an established part of the criminal justice system , as indeed be probation . almost every prisoner , other than a handful of the most serious criminal , come out of prison at some stage . the issue of public safety when people be release from prison be one that this Bill be try to address . we may disagree on the mean to that objective , but I be sure we agree on the objective itself . I also table new clause 18 , which relate to the provision of information to Parliament regard offender who be subject to electronic tagging and the operation of the tagging contract . the success of the measure in this Bill will rely heavily on the use of electronic monitoring , primarily through the use of tag . the Justice Committee have continually raise concern about the performance of Serco , the Government ' s current tagging provider . as a reminder , on 7 May , the Prisons Minister reveal to we that at that point , Serco have receive financial penalty for poor performance every month since it take on the electronic monitoring contract on 1 May 2024 . minister have assure we that Serco ' s performance be begin to improve . new clause 18 would require the Secretary of State to prepare and publish a report each calendar year on the use of electronic monitoring requirement . that report must include the number of electronic monitoring requirement impose each year , the rate of compliance , and the cost of administer those requirement each year . the report must be lay before Parliament . this would improve transparency and allow parliamentarian to assess for themselves how successfully Serco or other provider be administer tagging contract . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for give way . new clause 18 make the point that the cost of administer the electronic monitoring requirement during the year should be release . do he agree that that should include the size of the fine that be impose on the provider ? when I have ask the Ministry of Justice for that information , it have not be able to release it . I think it be a matter of public interest to know what the fine for the provider ' s failure be . I be delighted that my friend be still take a strong interest in these matter and remain on the Justice Committee , even though he no long have his Front - Bench responsibility — we know that he have other responsibility that he wish to take on . I entirely agree with he ; it be a point that we have make in Committee , and I hope the Minister have listen to it . I be sure that the word " commercial confidentiality " be use at some point , but this be not about commercial confidentiality ; it be about we know how well electronic tagging be work , which be a very serious matter in the criminal justice system . that be very well illustrate by the level of fine impose . I have table two new clause , new clause 19 and 20 , regard prisoner who be subject to imprisonment for public protection sentence . it have be 12 year since the last IPP sentence be hand down , yet around 2 , 500 people be still serve IPP sentence in prison . it be now widely acknowledge that the nature of those sentence have severe consequence for those who be serve they and for their love one . new clause 19 would implement the recommendation of the previous Justice Committee ' s 2022 report that there should be a resentencing exercise for all IPP - sentence individual , and that a time - limit expert committee that include a member of the judiciary should be establish to advise on the practical implementation of such an exercise . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for give way and for speak to his new clause . it contain similar wording to the new clause table by the Liberal Democrats , which Ms Nokes have indicate we may get a separate vote on . do that mean that the Chair of the Select Committee will be vote with the Liberal Democrats and encourage his Back - Bench colleague to do the same ? it mean that I will listen very carefully , not only to what the hon . Member say but to what the Government say . I know that the Government be unlikely to accept new clause 19 , because they have make their position on resentence clear . nevertheless , I want to set out that that be the good option , but I be just about to talk about other option , which might be more practical and which I urge on the Minister today . the Justice Committee remain of the view that a resentence exercise be the good and most comprehensive way to reduce the number of IPP prisoner in prison . know , however , that the Government be yet to be persuade of the merit of resentence on the balance of risk , I have also table new clause 20 , which would allow a prisoner whose licence have not be terminate by the Parole Board two or three year after their first release to make an annual application for termination to the Parole Board . this would increase the opportunity for the licence of IPP prisoner to be terminate , and would reduce the amount of time those prisoner have to wait in limbo between Parole Board hearing . in contrast to resentence , this more modest amendment would enhance the process for IPP licence termination . IPP termination have be the single most effective measure in permanently reduce the stain of the IPP sentence . some 28 % of IPP sentence have be terminate by the Parole Board , end the shadow of the sentence by cancel it and remove the risk of recall for those who have be deem safe by the Parole Board or comply with their licence for two year . the new clause would build on the success of that process by reintroduce the right to apply for annual review that be remove by the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 . at present , if a person ' s IPP licence be not terminate when the Parole Board first consider it , or if they have already have an unsuccessful review at the point when the 2024 Act come into force , the only option for end the licence be when it automatically expire after two year in the community without any recall . equally , the one - off nature of the current termination process mean that victim be deprive of the opportunity to make representation between an initial decision not to terminate and an automatic termination . they be simply informed that the licence have expire automatically once a continuous two - year period have be achieve . this technical amendment would have a significant effect and would in many respect put the law back to how it be previously . I hope the Minister will look at that and respond when he reply to the debate . I have also table an amendment and a new clause relate to recall and further release . amendment 33 to clause 26 would give effect to recommendation 4 . 3 of the independent sentencing review about strict criterion and threshold for recall . the Bill as draft do not deal with that aspect of the recommendation . a fix - term 56 - day recall be akin to multiple short sentence , which have be acknowledge as ineffective and disruptive to long - term rehabilitation . the amendment would put into statute the requirement for recall to be use only where there be evidence of consistent non - compliance or a specific and imminent risk of harm , as recommend by the review . new clause 21 provide an opportunity for the current legislation for recall to be review prior to the new legislation be roll out to ensure that it be effective and adequately protect the public . on another form of recall , do the hon . Member have any sympathy with new clause 62 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , and the idea that there should be a sunset on this provision ? however we look at the content of this Bill , it be a bit of an experiment , so we should make sure that two year on we examine it and , if the circumstance require , renew it . we have to do something about recall and do it now . the number of prisoner on recall have more than double over the seven - year period from March 2018 to 2025 . it be 6 , 000 then and it be now 13 , 500 . that be a significant part of the prison population . rise — I be not go to give way again , because I be take too much time . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that this be a difficult process to manage . that be why this Bill be present on the same day that fix - term recall 48 come into operation . FTR 48 be the recent provision mandate fix - term recall of 28 day in determinate case of less than 48 month . the new 56 - day recall model recommend in the Bill replicate FTR 48 , with the exception that the default recall period be extend from 28 to 56 day . prior to this new provision be lay , there have be no opportunity for the efficacy and impact of this model to be evaluate . new clause 21 would allow that evaluation to take place . I think I be try to do the same as what he be say , which be to ensure we look carefully and evaluate the effect . we be into new territory here , and there may be unintended consequence . the sentencing review receive numerous report that offender be recall for breach , such as their tag run out of power or a failure to keep in touch , and that breach and recall process be overly punitive and often feel to be unfair . as the Bill stand , the legal test for recall remain unchanged . as more offender will be release at an early date and the use of electronic tagging will increase , there be a great risk that people may be recall when there be minor problem with the tag or housing issue . tighten the legal test for recall would confine their use to instance where there be evidence of consistent non - compliance , or a specific and imminent risk of harm , as recommend by the review . without amendment , there be a real risk that the prison capacity crisis will not be adequately address , and we could even see an increase in recall , albeit for short period . a tight test would guard against unintended consequence from the overuse of 56 - day recall . amendment 34 to clause 24 introduce the right for those be make subject to licence condition to make representation as to their necessity and proportionality . that could be an important safeguard , give the suite of new condition in the Bill that enable a wide range of restriction to be impose in the community . without safeguard , the use of these condition could lead to increase recall and increase pressure on the probation and prison system . give offender an entitlement to make representation about licensing condition would assist in alert the authority to any unintended consequence , such as where condition might impact on resettlement or other outcome , include access to employment or healthcare . I be come towards the end , but not just yet . the last of my amendment be amendment 35 to clause 24 , which concern restriction zone . amendment 35 would introduce a requirement for the Parole Board to have oversight of new restriction zone for offender on licence . a restriction zone be , by its nature , highly restrictive and could impact on almost every aspect of an offender ' s life , include their ability to work , receive medical care and see family . any application to leave the zone place an administrative burden on the authority . the amendment would introduce judicial oversight by the Parole Board of the extension of restriction zone . that oversight could act as an important safeguard before such restriction be impose , and may also provide an opportunity for victim to have a voice in set out the potential impact on they before an independent body . this be the first time that provision have be make to restrict offender to a certain geographical area when release on licence without a requirement for judicial oversight or due process . the propose restriction be akin to control order , now replace with terrorist prevention and investigation measure , but without the requirement for a gateway offence or judicial oversight . finally , I have put my name to amendment 36 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) . it would provide an important clarification of the power of the court to impose a community sentence as an alternative to a suspend prison sentence , in circumstance where that may offer a more effective prospect of avoid future offending or breach of licence condition . it would likely be especially beneficial in keep woman out of prison . to conclude , I repeat my support for the Bill and the Government ' s approach to sentencing , which be the big change in 30 year . I thank the organisation work with IPP prisoner , many of whom be relative and friend of those incarcerate , include United Group for Reform of IPP and the IPP Committee in Action . I also thank the justice union parliamentary group , the Prison Reform Trust , the Law Society and Justice , among other , for their briefing and assistance with propose change to the Bill . I hope the Minister will consider the amendment that we have table as way to improve the Bill ' s content and bring clarity where it be need . I hope that he will respond to they in wind up and may even agree to adopt some of they . we survive on hope . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak in support of amendment 24 and the other amendment that I have table on behalf of the Opposition . I regret that we have not have the opportunity to hear from important voice on these incredibly important issue through a full Public Bill Committee . victim group of all different kind care deeply about the measure in this Bill . we not only do not get to hear from they as mps , but the nature of Committee of the whole House mean that we do not have the opportunity to put forward for inclusion a whole range of measure that be worthy of our consideration and a vote in support . anyone read the amendment paper will see the richness and range of idea that just will not get the level of detailed consideration they should . it would have be beneficial , and we may well end up give this incredibly important Bill less than 15 hour of consideration in this House . I can not help but feel that the measure relate to early release be so unpalatable that the Government be do their absolute good to rush this Bill through the House to avoid proper scrutiny . I will try , though , to at least give some time and think to some of the amendment , even if ultimately we will not be able to vote on they . new clause 12 relate to change to the unduly lenient sentence scheme . at present , the ULS scheme allow anyone to appeal most sentence to the Attorney General ' s Office if they consider they to be unduly lenient . I and other member of this House have make use of this scheme , as have other . it can and do lead to sentence be change , but there be two major problem with the scheme as it operate . first , too many victim be unaware of the scheme and do not get long enough to make use of it . at this point , I pay tribute to the amazing campaigner who have do so much to raise this issue . Katie Brett secure thousand of signature to a petition to change the scheme in memory of her sister Sasha . I pay tribute to Ayse Hussein and other member of the Justice for Victims group . the issue have also be raise for many year by Tracey Hanson , who I have the pleasure of meeting recently , in memory of her son Josh Hanson , who be the victim of an appalling murder . I know that other campaigner be similarly inclined . all of they be clear about the fact that the current scheme do not work . our amendment will require the Crown Prosecution Service to notify victim , and also extend the time available to appeal to up to a year for victim and their family if the victim be deceased . I pay tribute to that campaign , and in particular to my hon . friend ' s commitment to victim , which I know be outstanding . will he acknowledge , too , that many of the people who suffer be suffer at the hand of repeat criminal — career criminal ? sometimes people who have be let out on licence breach the licence condition . for instance , in my constituency a young woman be kill by a dangerous driver , on licence , who have be ban from drive . there be many like she , and my hon . friend be stand for they . will he therefore impress on the Government that they be let out people who cause grief , harm and hurt ? that be just not good enough . as my right hon . Friend say , we can do what we want when it come to place condition on people and expect they to behave differently , but the only place where we can be sure they be not out commit further offence be prison . across the board , this measure will let very many serious offender out of prison early , and I shall say more about that towards the end of my speech . in respect of the undue lenient sentence scheme , the Government have previously say that they will await the outcome of a review of criminal appeal — a review that have already say that the system be work fine , and for the implementation of whose recommendation we have no timetable or plan . the opportunity to make that change be here , and I urge Ministers to take it . new clause 8 relate to what be clearly unacceptable restriction on what people can say in victim personal statement , often describe as impact statement . this be a further issue that the Justice for Victims group and other have raise . the parent of Sarah Everard , Susan and Jeremy , have make it very clear that the people advise they on their statement be do their good to act in their good interest , and to help secure the good possible outcome for justice for Sarah , but the system and the rule around this be lead to too many people , like Susan and Jeremy , be tell that they can not say what they should be allow to say . Glenn and Becky Youens , also from Justice for Victims , have the same experience when make statement about their feeling towards the vile criminal who have kill their precious daughter Violet - Grace . our new clause will ensure that the Government can help victim to secure the good possible opportunity to say what it be that they want to say , while recognise that the statement be still be make in a court . new clause 16 be intend to close a loophole that I think all member agree need to be close . our current sentencing law require a whole - life order to be pass for those who murder a police or prison officer in the line of duty . that be an important deterrent , and enable the delivery of justice for people who put themselves in harm ' s way , deal with violent criminal , should the bad happen . however , it be clear to I that the court have not interpret the meaning of that legislation as I — and , I think , most other member — would have want they to . in 2024 a former prison officer , Lenny Scott , be murder . he be murder by a seriously violent criminal for do his job as a prison officer . Lenny have bravely stand up to threat from this criminal while he supervise he in prison , as he have report that he have contraband . year later , this despicable person come back for his revenge . he be convict of Lenny ' s murder , but the court decide that the whole - life order tariff do not apply because he have not be actively on duty when the murder take place . I think that be counter to the spirit of the measure . our new clause would remove the loophole , so that in future if a prison or police officer be murder because of something they do in their role , whenever that might be , the sentence will be a whole - life order . I imagine that of all the measure we be propose , that will secure the great amount of cross - party support — not at this stage of the Bill , but during future stage in the Lords . new clause 10 support great transparency in our justice system by ensure that sentencing remark in the Crown court be available to everyone , and transparency be also at the heart of new clause 9 . for too long , for the wrong reason , we have not be transparent about criminal ' background . we know that political correctness lead to the vile groom gang scandal go unchallenged , which should never have be allow , for many decade . part of the issue be that we do not have the datum and the information that would have enable we to understand what be happen and who be commit those offence . why should we not have basic information about criminal that would enable we to have an honest debate about different pattern of criminal behaviour in different community and different part of the country , especially when we know that if we refuse to do this — if we refuse to be transparent — all that we do be give fuel to the wrong people ? at good , indifference to the need to share this data be look more and more like a desire to cover up what it might reveal . that have to stop , and our new clause will ensure that it do . new clause 11 relate to step that the court should take to limit parental responsibility for those convict of child sex offence . in the last Parliament my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) campaign on this in support of a constituent who meet Ministers in that Government to discuss it . in the current Parliament , the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) have join the campaign , along with other member . I understand that yesterday the Government table an amendment to the relate Victims and Courts Bill , which be due for further consideration , and of course we will look closely at that to consider whether it meet the reasonable expectation of parent seek to protect their child from child sex offender . new clause 13 and 14 also relate to child sex offender . as I have say , I will go on to talk about the wide plan to release offender early , but when the Government first announce those plan they make an obvious attempt to distract the medium from their actual plan by give the impression that they would introduce the mandatory chemical castration of sex offender . what they have actually pledge to do be nothing of the sort . we intend to deliver where they have not : we want to ensure that , when appropriate , court can impose this , and make sure that there be consequence for offender who do not comply . the Government have pretend to do whatever be necessary to help reduce the risk pose by child sex offender , but we actually will . new clause 14 relate to our broad intention to reform the accountability of our justice system . we will begin by restore accountability for the provision of sentence guideline . we see that the Sentencing Council be intent on introduce two - tier sentencing guideline , and resist all attempt to prevent they from do that . too many organisation have become disconnected from public accountability . they think that simply put something on a website , or hold focus group , mean that they understand what the public want and be accountable to they . that be not accountability , and in the come year we will set out a programme of reform to ensure that , while the judicial establishment retain its independence when it be vital to its successful operation , it be not sit in an ivory tower , separate from accountability to the wide public whom it serve . let I say to Reform Members that this new clause be a good illustration of the fact that it be not enough just to be unhappy with the status quo ; we need a proper plan to address it . their new clause 24 would abolish the Sentencing Council , but provide for nothing to replace its function . if we can not issue sentence guideline , victim have no realistic basis against which to challenge short sentence . new offence could be introduce without any way for the court to understand the expectation in respect of sentence . I support the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) relate to suspend sentence . I think that she do an excellent job in lay out the deep , deep flaw in the Government ' s plan , which I agree be be drive by ideology and belief rather than reality . I think that her amendment in themselves demonstrate the number of way in which these measure be not sufficiently robust , contain so many gap and loophole that those amendment seek to address . let we be clear : the court already do everything that they possibly can to avoid custodial sentence . they be require by law to set the minimum sentence possible that still meet the interest of justice . there be often confusion about what be describe as the impact of short sentence . Association be not cause , but many people , it seem , do not understand that . short sentence be frequently impose on recurrent prolific offender for whom community measure have be try and have not work . by definition , they be a challenging cohort . compare their reoffende rate with the reoffende rate for offender receive community sentence be very misleading . when we do the more detailed work of compare like for like in term of offend history and other characteristic , we see that the difference in reoffende rate fall back dramatically to single figure . offender receive short sentence deserve to receive they . very many of they be individual who assault emergency service worker . as be highlight powerfully by my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton , when in opposition Labour Members say that that be intolerable and that deal with it be a priority . why should such offender escape punishment in prison ? I be pleased that my right hon . friend have draw specific attention to that with her amendment and her speech . my hon . friend be now come to the nub of the issue . there be different view across the House . there be those of we who believe that the justice system should be retributive , that punishment matter and that punishment should fit crime , and there be those who do not . there be those who do not think that the justice system should be punitive , whereas I think that it should be punitive . I think that more people should go to jail and should go for much long , not just because it be a deterrent but because it signal public outrage at these heinous act . that be why it matter , and everyone in the House should realise it . my right hon . friend have frequently raise this issue , and we be in violent agreement . in my experience , there be intellectual snobbery towards people who think there be moral value in , and an ethical basis for , punish people properly . anyone who talk about that often get label as some bigot who do not understand pattern of criminality and all these other thing . of course they be important to consider , but none of these thing mean that we should not appropriately punish people . it shock I that that still remain not part of the statutory purpose of sentencing . punish people be important , and we do not consider it enough . for all the reason I have set out , this Bill be incredibly important . today be incredibly important too , because it be the last chance for Back - Bench mps to decide for themselves which part of this very significant Bill they will support . next week we will have Third Reading , where Labour mps will have no choice but to vote for or against the entire Bill . we know that a major part of this Bill be the early release of nearly all offender . the opposition be oppose to the programme as a whole , but it be clear that this Bill be a major part of the Government ' s plan to reform sentencing . it would be ask a lot of Labour mp to ask they to consider vote against the entire programme , but we be not ask they to do that . our amendment 24 give Labour mps the route through which they can most justifiably say to their whip and the Prime Minister , " no , I can ' t support this . " we be ask they to say no and to vote against the early release of rapist , paedophile , seriously violent criminal , criminal who cause death by dangerous driving and attempt murderer . we be give Labour mp a clear route out of do what would be absolutely unprecedented in the management of offender in our prison and a deep insult to the victim of serious violent and sexual crime . labour mp , many of whom I have get to know , work with and respect , will know that I spend the last week try my utmost to encourage they to avoid be put in a position where the whip will make they vote to release rapist , paedophile and serious violent criminal early . Most shadow Ministers would happily sit back and watch Labour mps vote for something that will blight their time in Parliament in the eye of their constituent , but we have not do that . that be because whatever damage voting for this Bill might do to the electoral prospect of Labour mp , what be more important to I be that its measure do not go through . as I have say before , I understand the frustration that mps of different party have have over decade about the resource provide to our justice system and the prison estate . I mention on Second Reading that when Labour be last in power , it release more than 80 , 000 prisoner early because of the capacity issue build up during its time in office . this Government and the last Government have operate similar programme . I wish that emergency release measure never have to be use , and if — this be a very big " if " — I have ever be Prime Minister or Chancellor during these period , I would have take different decision . but at least these measure have to be announce in the full glare of the public eye , carry a political price and be genuinely legislate for as response to short - term emergency challenge . I want Labour mp to be absolutely clear - eyed about the fact that what we be vote on today be not a short - term response to prison crowding challenge . it be a medium to long - term plan — a decision about how we as a country want to respond to people who commit serious violent and sexual offence . I have never meet a victim of a serious violent or sexual offence who think that the present system suitably punish serious offender . I have never meet a victim who think that we should let these sort of people out of prison early , but that be what this Bill will do . on Second Reading , I explain the sort of offence that be include in these measure . minister have say that the very bad offender will be exclude . since Second Reading , the opposition have be able to review sentencing datum to try to understand what that mean in reality . it highlight a disturbing truth and leave the Government and any MP who vote for this Bill with a difficult question to answer . those serve extended determinate sentence and life sentence will be exclude from the early release element of this Bill , whereas those serve standard determinate sentence will not . prisoner on standard determinate sentence will have their prison time cut . every year , more than 60 % of criminal send to prison for rape be on a standard determinate sentence . over 90 % of criminal send to prison for child grooming be on a standard determinate sentence . around half of criminal send to prison for attempt murder be on a standard determinate sentence . hundred of criminal guilty of child rape and sexual assault , include rape of child under 13 , be in prison on standard determinate sentence . in total , more than 6 , 500 criminal send to prison every year for serious violent , sexual and other offence be give determinate sentence . if Labour mps vote against our amendment 24 , every single one of those criminal will be able to get out of prison early . labour mp will be vote to let rapist and paedophile out of prison early . indicate dissent . the Minister shake his head . if he want to intervene and explain why that be not the case , he can . no , he be not go to do so . let we be clear : early release will not be do on a retrospective basis . when the measure be enact , every criminal in prison at that point in time will be able to benefit from these measure , include thousand of serious criminal . it be very clear to I that what be be say by minister — I anticipate that they will say the same later in defence of these plan — be in danger of mislead mp . as it stand , Labour mp will have to vote in support of the Government ' s position that the most serious offender be exclude . I invite mps to reflect on how the Justice Secretary can possibly say that any rape — let alone hundred of they — be not one of the most serious offence . will Labour mp who vote against amendment 24 tonight be able to say to survivor of child sex abuse that they support a Government who want to classify thousand of child sex offence as not be the most serious offence ? the Government have say that early release will have to be earn through good behaviour , but that be simply not true . I appreciate that it can be difficult to always believe what mps from opposition party be say , but mp do not need to take my word for it . the House of Commons Library briefing note on this Bill be there in black and white for everyone to read . it say : " as currently draft , the provision of the bill do not bring in any new criterion for people to adhere to prior to be release at the one third or halfway point , or any discretionary element to release . " I will repeat that : the Bill ' s provision do not bring in any new criterion . labour mp need not look any far than emergency release measure and contrast they with this permanent , long - term change to find evidence that the Government ' s approach be totally unprecedented . the SDS40 scheme and other scheme that have come before and sit alongside it have many more exclusion — for example , sex offender — yet this permanent , non - emergency approach do not . what minister have be tell Labour mp to secure their support be not accurate , which should always make back - Bench mp wary . if the Government be make inaccurate statement about a measure in a Bill that they want mp to support because they can not face the reality of what it do , then mp should think very carefully about vote for it , because there be no go back . they will have to defend that decision . this morning , I email every single Labour MP the Library briefing note so that they could see it for themselves , regardless of whether they listen to this debate . ignorance will be no excuse , because today will not be the end of it . I guarantee member that the harsh reality be that history tell we that some of the criminal whom Labour mp be be ask to vote to release will almost certainly commit further serious offence , at a time when they would otherwise have be lock up . mp will then have to explain why they vote for non - emergency change that let such people out early . I would not be surprised if one of these case be sufficiently serious that the Government amend the Bill ' s measure in future , in response to a public backlash . there be every chance that they will make Labour mp go through the Lobby tonight and vote for the indefensible , and then at some point pull the rug from under they . I appreciate that a lot of Labour Members be new to this place , and they can speak to long - serve member about how it will make they look when they be force to follow a line that be later withdraw . I have make our position clear , and I have set out the consequence . mp vote against our amendment 24 this evening will be vote to reduce jail time for extremely violent criminal , paedophile , child groomer and rapist . I have do as much as I can to stop that happen . minister be resort to say thing about the Bill ' s measure that be inaccurate to secure support from their Back Benchers , and mps should not let they get away with it . we have set out clearly how our amendment would ensure that appalling criminal do not see their punishment cut . I know it be difficult for Back Benchers to stand up to the Government and say no , but if we do not , thousand of the bad criminal will get out of prison early . labour mp now have to decide whether to vote for what victim of child abuse , family member of people kill by dangerous driver , victim of rape and other want — victim whom many of they care about — or for what the Prime Minister and his whip want . tell the Prime Minister no , tell the Whips no , and vote for our amendment tonight . I will try to make my remark fairly brief — not because I be against short sentence , but because I recognise that there be time pressure . I would like to record my support for three amendment to the Bill in the form of new clause 2 to 4 . I might say that I agree with virtually everything that my good friend my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) say . I want to place on record my thank to the Minister and his team for their engagement and time both before and since Second Reading . my intention be to support the Bill , but also to seek to improve it . on that basis , I have have extensive discussion with the justice union , notably the prison officer in the Prison Officers Association , probation officer in Napo , prison educator in the University and College Union and , indeed , staff in the Public and Commercial Services Union . I have add my name to new clause 2 , table by my good friend my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , which seek to ensure that the Probation Service , not Serco or any other private company , oversee this increasingly important criminal justice technology , as be the case in almost all of Europe . the key to the success of the Bill be the tremendous opportunity for this new generation of electronic tagging of offender . the new clause would also ensure that it be not the responsibility of an already overstretch Prison Service to tag offender before release — not when Serco be be pay handsomely for this contract . as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick have point out , such contract be award by the previous Conservative Government , and Serco , as the provider , have suffer considerable financial penalty . I would like to pose a number of question to the Minister , which I hope he can respond to either in his speech or at a later date . do he agree with Napo and the POA that , with such a huge expansion of electronic monitoring envisage by the Bill , the safeguard set out in new clause 2 be sorely need ? do he also agree that we urgently need a full debate about whether we want the public or the private sector in operational control of electronic tagging ? I pay a tribute to the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) — I hope I have say her constituency name correctly , and I thank the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) for coach I in its pronunciation , although it be work in progress — for table new clause 4 , to which I have add my name . this amendment call for probation to receive a clean bill of health by his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Probation before any increase in pressure on the service . it also provide a much - need power to trigger what be call a prioritisation framework , so if there be serious concern about a particular region ' s or unit ' s capability , probation officer can focus on high - risk case instead of non - essential task . the hon . Gentleman be an old friend , and I appreciate his attempt to improve the Bill . the new clause that he support be interesting and have merit . will he acknowledge , though , that it be not just probation service that will be put under extra pressure by this Bill , but that the police will be too ? will he invite the Minister , when he sum up , to talk about the extra resource he can make available to Lincolnshire police and other authority , as well as to the Probation Service , to implement the provision of the Bill that he have bring to the Committee ? I be grateful for that intervention , which I think be quite sensible , and I support the contention . I hope the Minister will respond appropriately when he have the opportunity . do the Minister agree that HM Inspectorate of Probation should have the power outline in new clause 4 ? they be just the sort of safeguard we need in the Bill before more pressure be place on the Probation Service . we be all aware that it be really overstretch , principally as a result of funding cut implement by the previous Government and some of the decision take before the present Government come into office . finally , I be pleased to register my support for new clause 3 , in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who be my good friend . I echo the concern that he express at length on Second read about the potential for exploitation by private company , such as when unpaid work in London be privatise in 2013 . indeed , that be criticise by the International Labour Organisation as an abuse . do the Minister agree with the probation union , Napo , that unpaid work order should always be about payback to the community , that they should be run for public good , not for private profit , and that this safeguard should be place in the Bill ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as the newly appoint Justice spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , I would first like to acknowledge the hard work of my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , and his determination to make tangible change for those that have experience domestic abuse . I thank the Government for their constructive collaboration with he by introduce into the Bill a domestic abuse identifi at the point of sentencing . the identifier will give victim great confidence that their abuser be be appropriately deal with in the justice system , but it would be reassure if the Minister confirm that this identifier will be use to ensure that those perpetrator be exclude from any future early release scheme . this Bill present a fantastic opportunity to address the endemic challenge that plague our justice system . those challenge be the result of year of mismanagement by the Conservatives , whose decision have underpin the record backlog of case in the Crown court , as well as prison overcrowding and astronomically high reoffende rate , with victim consistently fail at every stage . we Liberal Democrats have hope that this Bill would begin to shift the dial towards a justice system that truly protect victim and rehabilitate perpetrator , and there be indeed many element that we support and that show promise . however , we remain concerned that the scope and ambition of the Bill be lack , have have many of our amendment reject due to the lack of financing behind the Bill . many of the issue blight our justice system stem from a lack of foresight and investment , particularly in probation and prison , as the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) mention . it be therefore disappointing that the Bill do not include major effort to rectify that . as a party , we be supportive of suspend short sentence of under 12 month and have long campaign for this measure . not only be it a necessary step to address prison overcrowding , but it would play a vital role in reduce reoffende . while 62 % of those serve custodial sentence of less than 12 month go on to reoffend , only 24 % reoffend if they be give a suspend sentence . end the cycle of reoffende be crucial to reduce crime level and relieve pressure on the justice system . as the Government have state , there will be exception , but they be yet to clarify what those exception will be . will they include violent offender , those convict for sexual offence against child and those who possess indecent image ? it would be very helpful if the Minister lay out all the exemption . we have table a number of amendment aim at address our concern or further aspect of the Bill . new clause 30 aim to address imprisonment for public protection . IPP sentence be a type of indeterminate sentence use in England and Wales from 2005 to 2012 for dangerous offender who do not qualify for a life sentence , but still pose a public risk . these sentence feature a minimum term , but no maximum , with release contingent on the Parole Board deeming the offender no long a threat . it be during the coalition Government that we abolish IPP sentence , but many remain in prison serve these sentence long after their tariff have expire . our new clause would commence a resentencing exercise , which have cross - party support and should be implement as a priority . the amendment be first recommend by the Justice Committee in 2022 , and I note that the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , have table a similar measure — new clause 19 . although we welcome the Government ' s approach to community sentencing , reoffende rate be demonstrably high among those who be unemployed . in 2023 , the reoffende rate for those who be unemployed six week after release from prison be 36 . 5 % , compare with 20 % for those who be employ at the same point . amendment 44 therefore call on the Government to publish a report assess whether the drive prohibition in the Bill could impede an individual ' s ability to attend work , education or rehabilitation programme . can the Minister inform the House what assessment the Government have make of that ? ensure access to those pathway be vital if we be to reduce reoffende effectively . we be also concerned that the Bill do not go far enough to support victim of violence against woman and girl . I know that this be one of the Government ' s key priority this parliamentary term , yet without collect the datum , it be an empty promise that it will be hard for the Government to show they have actually achieve . new clause 36 would continue the important campaign of my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne to ensure that domestic abuse be treat as an aggravating factor in sentencing , while new clause 37 would require an assessment of the introduction of mandatory rehabilitation programme focus on violence against woman and girl for those convict of assault , battery or actual bodily harm against a woman or girl , even if domestic abuse be not include as an aggravating factor . these measure be design to ensure that victim of domestic abuse and related offence be place at the centre of the justice system ' s work , ensure that such crime be meet with appropriate sentence and that rehabilitation be specifically target at those who commit these serious offence . in line with that approach , new clause 38 call for screen for traumatic brain injury among prisoner at the start of their custodial sentence . a Brainkind study last year show that 80 % of woman in the criminal justice system in Wales may be suffer with a brain injury , while Government datum show that more than half of female prisoner be victim of domestic abuse . these figure identify that a significant proportion of the female prison population may have undiagnose brain injury result from domestic abuse , leave many without the treatment they need and undermine their rehabilitation — something that be certainly reflect in their ability to engage with probation service after leave prison . comprehensive screening across the prison population would enable a deep understanding of the link between trauma , offend and reoffende . new clause 31 call on the Secretary of State to examine the proceed generate from the propose income reduction order and to consider whether they could be ringfence to create a dedicated fund for support victim . new clause 39 would allow the court to suspend the drive licence of an individual charge with certain driving offence pende the outcome of the trial as part of their bail condition . many hon . member across the House have harrowing case in their constituency of life lose at the hand of a drunk driver , drug driver or someone cause death by dangerous or reckless driving , and the court backlog mean so often that those defendant be free to continue drive after the offence have occur , sometimes wait for month ; in some case , with drug test take up to six month to be receive , the driver be free to continue to drive under the influence , which be just plain wrong . I know that be feel deeply across the House . new clause 40 would address the ridiculous doom loop we find ourselves in with prisoner on remand arrive at their sentencing hearing , be sentence and then be send home because the court backlog mean they have serve their sentence while be on remand and have not have access to any rehabilitative programme , education , therapy or other support . the new clause would make rehabilitative programme accessible for those on remand . we be also still concerned about a number of unaddresse measure in the Bill , such as the recall provision , which allow those recall to be release after 56 day with no involvement from the Parole Board , essentially provide a " get out of jail free " card for reoffende . this will not give the public confidence in the system . I would also be interested in the Minister ' s argument as to the purpose of provision in the Bill to allow the Probation Service to publish name and picture of those take part in unpaid work . the Bill do contain some good idea to address some of the issue in our justice system , but it could and should have go far , especially if it have adequate resourcing . as my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne state on Second Reading , the Bill be full of hope , but fall short of both the liberal Democrat ambition and the ambition that the Government claim to have . I look forward to hear the Government ' s response to our question , and encourage member across the House to support our amendment and new clause , include new clause 30 . I be go to make a short speech on new clause 27 , table in my name and the name of other hon . member . after a short relationship , my constituent Sophie Hall have suffer and continue to suffer from a prolonged and relentless stalk campaign from her ex - partner , who be reside illegally in the UK . in November last year , he be arrest for these offence , but be never speak to about they , as no interpreter could be find . no risk assessment be do , and he be place in temporary accommodation on bail , which he continue to breach . in February , Sophie ' s ex - partner be convict and sentence under the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 and be subsequently deport to his home country of Brazil with a 10 - year re - entry ban effective from March . he then make his way to Europe , travel across several country before end up back in the UK . in May , he be arrest in Belfast board a flight to Inverness . his aim , as always , be to get to Sophie . the Crown Prosecution Service then charge he with stalking and breach of restrain order and immigration offence and he be remand in custody . after review , the CPS state that no charge could be file for stalk under the current law because the stalking have happen outside the UK , the perpetrator be not a UK citizen or resident , and the exist law do not give the UK court jurisdiction over stalk offence commit from abroad under these circumstance . this be the crux of new clause 27 . Sophie ' s ex - partner be then place on remand and , on 15 September , sentence to four year and four month for once again breach a restraining order . he be now in Durham prison , where he continue to show no remorse for , or acknowledgement of , the harm that he have cause . Sophie have be tell by her victim liaison officer that he be likely to be deport , will be ban permanently from the UK , and will receive a lifetime restrain order prohibit he from ever contact Sophie again . whether abroad or in the UK , though , he have consistently stalk Sophie , include by send her letter when he be in a detention centre , because the Home Office fail to transfer information relate to his restraining order . Sophie do not think that she will ever be safe ; nor do she feel that the indefinite ban be much of a deterrent . once he be in Brazil , no one will have sight of he or manage the risk that he pose . she know that he will try to travel back to she , because he always do . I be aware from correspondence with the Minister for Safeguarding and violence against Women and girl that the Government be already look at the extraterritorial jurisdiction of stalk legislation , and that new measure on stalk will come forward in the Crime and Policing Bill next week . however , I have look at those measure carefully , and they will do nothing at all to prevent what be happen to Sophie . Sophie be right that it remain the case that online stalking of UK citizen by foreign national , even if it be persistent , harmful and criminal in nature , can go unpunished simply because of where the perpetrator be locate when commit the abuse . this legal loophole give perpetrator the freedom to act with impunity as long as they be physically outside the UK . sadly , there be many of we in this place who know the heart - stop fear and worry when we see threat online or in writing , know that the person who be make they will carry they out and do really mean it . Sophie have suffer this relentlessly . she have be let down by the agency that be mean to protect she , and the law have allow her perpetrator to continue to torment she . Sophie be not alone , though . Paladin advocacy service , which have work with I on new clause 27 , be support many other victim . as the law stand , the UK have limit power to prevent foreign national convict of stalk from continue to harass their victim after be deport . my new clause aim to rectify that . as we move to an ever more digital world , the capacity for people to stalk and perpetrate this kind of oppressive action on people will only grow . I just want to say how delighted I be that the hon . Lady have table this new clause , and I hope we will hear from the Minister that he will look at this matter carefully , because this will be a grow issue — although , as the hon . Lady have show with Sophie , it be already horrific in its impact . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention and support . simply put , I want no one else to go through what Sophie be go through . she have to live her life in constant fear and have be through absolute hell . I hope that the Minister will give my new clause proper consideration . I wish to speak to my new clause 6 , which call for the implementation of a lifetime driving ban for those convict of cause death by dangerous or careless driving . last year there be 380 conviction for cause death by dangerous or careless driving . of those conviction , 202 be for cause death by dangerous driving , 150 be for cause death by careless or inconsiderate driving , 23 be for cause death by careless driving when under the influence of drink or drug , two be for cause death by drive unlicensed or uninsured , and three be for cause death by drive while disqualify . few than 1 % of those convict of cause death by dangerous driving be give a lifetime driving ban ; the figure be just two . since 2017 , there have be 1 , 348 conviction for cause death by dangerous driving , 1 , 314 conviction for cause death by careless or inconsiderate driving , 158 conviction for cause death by careless driving when under the influence of drink or drug , 17 conviction for cause death by drive unlicensed or uninsured , and 11 conviction for cause death by drive while disqualify . there have be nearly 3 , 000 conviction for cause a death through negligence or recklessness of the driver . those be thousand of life lose — husband and wife who have lose their partner , child who have lose a parent , and parent who have lose a child . thousand more life be impact tragically , forever change , shatter . the hon . Gentleman be make a very powerful speech with some shocking figure . just last Friday in my constituency surgery , Sarah Imi come to talk to I about her husband Jason . seven year ago , he and his colleague be kill after a work dinner by a 17 - year - old driving well above the speed limit and high on cannabis . he be give a £ 120 fine and a few hour of community service . he have subsequently reoffende 27 time , include commit a dangerous driving offence . Sarah have three teenage child at the time . do the hon . Member agree that the family deserve justice and that this man should never be able to drive again ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution , and I wholeheartedly agree . there be so many tale just like that from all our constituency , and they indicate just how lenient we have be towards those convict of dangerous driving , particularly those who have cause a fatality . that be precisely why I table new clause 6 . I believe that family like the one she mention deserve justice and the closure of know that those people will not go on to reoffend . under section 163 of the sentencing code , any court may impose a driving disqualification for any offence commit after 1 January 1998 . the minimum period of disqualification for cause death by careless driving be just 12 month . the sentencing guideline for a drive disqualification follow a conviction for cause death by drive illustrate the leniency that our judiciary apply to these case . there be something badly wrong with our approach to justice when life be consider as cheap as it be in the current guideline . the minimum period of disqualification for cause death by dangerous driving be five year . consider that the threshold for dangerous driving be high , as it cover excessive speeding , drink driving , and dangerous and erratic overtaking manoeuvre — the type of driving that leave we horrify . now consider a case in which the outcome of that driving be that someone be kill . the minimum disqualification period be five year — an inconvenience . it speak to a narrative of , " whoop , I kill somebody . " the sentencing guideline include the option for a lifetime disqualification , but reluctance to impose it be currently price into the guideline , which state : " lifetime disqualification will be rare , in particular because of the increase risk of breach and the possibility of hinder rehabilitation prospect . lifetime disqualification will generally be inappropriate unless there be psychiatric evidence and / or evidence of many previous conviction indicate that the offender would be a danger to the public indefinitely if allow to drive . " why be we so reticent to permanently remove killer driver from the road ? the guideline refer to an " increase risk of breach " , but if someone be catch drive while disqualify , have be ban from drive for life after kill someone , perhaps we should send they to prison . those who know I will know that I be far from anti - motorist . I be no fan of low - traffic neighbourhood , blanket 20 mph speed limit or terribly design cycle lane , but while I have be a car enthusiast for many year , I be also a cyclist , and these day very much a MAMIL — a middle - aged man in Lycra . I have be knock off my bike twice by car that " didn ' t see " I . I have be doore , and close - pass at 60 mph . I ride with camera on my bike so that there be evidence of I be knock off , and some of the driving I could show would deter Jeremy Vine from ever ride a bike in London again — but I have be lucky . Mike Gough be not lucky . Mike be know in Huntingdon for his passionate advocacy for road safety . he too be a keen cyclist , and he often cycle on the country road around the town — the very same road I be out on this past weekend . in March last year , as he head back into Huntingdon along the Brampton Road towards George Street , he be strike by a Ford Transit van attempt to pass he . paramedic attend the scene and attempt to give CPR , but Mike have be crush and could not be revive . Mike be pronounce dead at the scene . along the Brampton Road today , a white ghost bike now mark the site , as a tribute to Mike . the driver receive a 12 - month sentence — suspend for two year — and a two - year driving ban . as it stand , he will be back on the road before the next election . Mike ' s relative say that the sentence do not reflect " the seriousness of what have happen or the catastrophic impact on our life . Michael be the pinnacle of our family and a huge part of the local community . as a family we will never be the same again and our grief be immeasurable . " it be with these event in mind that I have table new clause 6 . the hon . and gallant Member speak very strongly about this issue . there may be reticence to support his new clause because of the implication for rehabilitation , but he have speak about the huge impact on family when a life be take in that way . can he give some reassurance about the balance between rehabilitate through custodial sentence , for example , and the lifelong impact on family of incident that happen in a moment ? the hon . Member make a valid point . my amendment seek to remove the chance that those people will reoffend far down the track . the custodial element remain unchanged , so there will still be the possibility of rehabilitation through the prison system to reduce the rate of recidivism . the issue here , as the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) also point out , be about give family closure and the knowledge that those who be guilty of commit these crime will not be able to go on to reoffend . new clause 6 propose a lifetime drive ban for death by dangerous or careless driving and related offence — those I cover at the beginning of my speech . have speak to Mike ' s widow Hazel and his daughter Kim , I can say that it be sober to listen to somebody recount the story of the day that they have to attend the scene where their husband or father have just be kill . selfishly , it be sober to think about how easily it could have be I . I ride the same road as Mike do . it be not an error , or avoidable on his part . the driver alone be at fault ; it be his casual negligence that cause Mike ' s death . Mike ' s daughter Kim recount : " on 27 June 2025 , the driver , Dennis Roberts , aged 74 , plead guilty to cause death by careless driving . he be ban from drive with immediate effect , give a one - year sentence , suspend for two year , a two - year driving ban , 250 hour unpaid work and have to pay court charge of around £ 200 . the sentence be within the guideline of the law , but do the law fit the crime ? he have live his life like normal for 18 month , while we have lose our dad , husband , friend , grandad , and live the last 18 month encompass in a whirlwind of grief . even after sentence he continue to live his life , just with a small inconvenience of not be able to drive and give up a few hour to work unpaid . how be that justice ? in two year ' time he will be able to drive again . would you give someone who use a gun carelessly and someone be kill their gun licence back after two year ? I doubt it . they would most likely have a custodial sentence too . " I would ask all member in the Chamber to think how they might feel if they be to get a phone call today inform they that their partner , parent or child have be kill in a road traffic accident . my hon . friend be give a powerful speech . like he I be a cyclist and have be subject to dangerous driving , but I be also a driver , and I be sure that few of we would say that we have not drive carelessly at some point . have he give think to whether a lifetime ban would be appropriate in all circumstance , for anybody who have ever cause death through carelessness ? I be not yet convinced . my right hon . friend make a valid point . I will talk later about whether it be too draconian . the issue here be one of finality . I be sure we have all have close shave while drive a car , but the fact of the matter be that if a driver have kill somebody — no matter how unlucky that may have be — that be final . the grief of the family I have speak to and the story I have hear from other hon . member show that we can not overstate how much of an impact that have on not just the life of the family but on friend and colleague . there be opportunity that those people will never , ever have . beyond that unimaginable pain , think how a family might be leave feeling if they find that , far from the accident have be unavoidable , the death be cause by the reckless action of somebody who be play with their phone , speeding , drive like a boy - racer or drunk . think of the feeling of injustice when the driver be sentence and receive little more than a slap on the wrist . the driver who kill Mike be give a two - year driving ban . Hazel will never get to see Mike again . they will never have the opportunity to live out the rest of their life together . Kim say : " the long - term impact on our family be huge . although my mum have return to her job at the hospital she be unable to fulfil her role on a rota and shift system and be unable to reduce she working hour . she have therefore be force into take early retirement from a job she have be at for nearly 42 year . we never want my dad to be a statistic , and to never be forget . " I table new clause 6 because of Mike , because of conversation with Hazel and Kim , and because victim like he need justice , which , as thing stand , they will not receive . how can we put such an incredibly low tariff on be directly responsible for someone ' s death ? the option to ban a driver for life be at the court ' s disposal , yet it appear not to be the preference of judge . that leniency suggest that life be cheap and that , far from be a tragedy , a death at the hand of someone careless or dangerous elicit little more than a shrug of the shoulder . in the event that somebody with a licensed shotgun kill somebody because they be careless — or , bad still , because they be dangerous — would we allow they to regain their shotgun licence ? why do we so readily return people ' s drive licence after they have take a life ? there be an argument that a lifetime ban be too draconian , do not leave room for rehabilitation and will not work as a deterrent . the new clause be not suppose to be a deterrent ; it be for the court to decide whether a conviction should result in a custodial sentence and thus what degree of rehabilitation , and therefore recidivism , should occur thereafter . the new clause be not too draconian ; it be robust . it would take driver who have kill permanently off our road and mean that those who have already prove themselves to be fatally unsafe behind the wheel would never again be in a position to take another life or destroy any further life . I be move recently by the story of one family . Clare o ' Neill speak to Sky News follow the conviction of the driver in their story . she say : " it be a normal Saturday morning . it be quite busy . we be go to go home via the school fair , and we get to the school crossing , which be behind the school . we press the button and wait for the car to stop . she take a couple of step out in front because she be responsibly cross , and I be encourage her brother to catch up , and then , in front of our eye he plough into she , massively fast , and he carry she off on his wing mirror . I ' ve get this very clear image of her be sweep off her foot and then she tumble off . by the time I get to she , it be almost like she be go . " Alice die a few day later . she be nine year old . the light have be red for seven second when the driver overtake car to speed through the pedestrian crossing . Qadeer Hussain be convict of cause death by dangerous driving . he be sentence to eight year and four month in prison . he be also disqualify from drive for 10 year and two month ; he will be out in four . Clare ' s victim impact statement illustrate the devastating effect of such tragedy : " I feel blind , chest - crush , white - hot rage at you , unlike any emotion I ' ve ever feel before . she wasn ' t in the wrong place at the wrong time , you be . you know it all along , I ' m helpless to express my anger that you stole everything from she " . I table the new clause because I believe that as a nation we do not take the necessary step to make our road safe , and we do not punish those responsible robustly enough . should it go to a vote , I believe that the support for it , acknowledge by the Government , show that more robust measure be possible . victim and their family deserve justice , and while the issue of sentencing for these crime be a wide discussion , ensure that those responsible for destroy so many life do not drive on our road again be an issue that we could address in the Committee today . the new clause will never bring back the victim who have be lose , nor heal the pain feel by those leave behind , but it may offer some closure if such crime do not go unpunished and if cause a fatality do not occur with impunity . I thank hon . member who have support the new clause and ask everyone to vote in favour of it this evening . I thank the hon . member for Huntington ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) for speak to his new clause , although I do not support it because the minimum need to cause death by careless driving be a momentary lapse of concentration . of course , he be talk about a death , and I be not suggest for a moment that that should go unpunished , but a full lifetime drive ban meaning that someone who have a momentary lapse of concentration at 19 still can not drive at 55 do not feel proportionate . however , I agree that we should look much more closely at all drive - relate offence , include all offence relate to dangerous driving , careless driving and , in particular , cause death by dangerous driving . those be horrendous crime . I have meet family who have be bereave in that way , and those have be some of the most impactful conversation I have have in my life . the impact on those family simply can not be overstate . we be expect the road safety strategy imminently , and I hope that these matter will be take forward on a cross - party basis and look at sensibly , because it be a really important topic . I totally understand what the hon . Lady be say about a momentary lapse in concentration , but that lapse have cost somebody their life . be that anybody sit in this room , that would be a devastating consequence not just for they but for everyone here and everyone in their family . I recognise what she say about it not feel proportionate , but there be nothing more final than lose one ' s life . to that extent , I believe it be proportionate . drive be a privilege and not drive be , realistically , only an inconvenience , whereas the repercussion of a family live their life without somebody be vast . I broadly agree with the hon . member on the overall topic : we should look at whether those offence be deal with with sufficient severity . I also agree that the impact on people ' s family can not be overstate . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress and speak to amendment 31 to clause 6 . that clause be the one that I be most proud of . it be the result of cross - party work between the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) and the Government Front Bench and it need to be give the prominence it deserve . for the first time , the clause will enable the recording and tracking of when domestic abuse be a factor in an offence . amendment 31 , which I support , discuss the ability to call for evidence as to whether there have be domestic abuse . I start from the fundamental position that we should believe woman on domestic abuse — I add that victim be predominantly , though by no mean exclusively , female . none the less , I also strongly believe in the rule of law and the importance of have evidence . that be why I have sponsor the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) . I be sure that my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) will more thoroughly address new clause 28 and 29 , which be about gambling treatment be consider on a par with treatment for drug and alcohol in the court . those on the Conservative Benches have suggest that Government Members be in some way anti - punishment . we be not . I absolutely believe that crime should be punish , but I also absolutely believe that rehabilitation service be critical to prevent the recurrence of crime . when 80 % of criminal offending be reoffende , we have to look seriously at how we break those cycle of offending . I welcome and applaud the clause put forward by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South . gambling create significant social problem in our society and when that extend to crime , we need solution . new clause 15 and 24 both address the potential abolition of the Sentencing Council . the language with which they have be address by Opposition Members today have be a bit more circumspect than some of what we have hear they say previously about the Sentencing Council in this Chamber . our judge in the UK be some of the good in the world . the independence of our judiciary be an absolutely fundamental premise of our democracy , and the way in which it have be talk about recently treat it with complete disdain . that terrify I . it be one of the most important principle that our country stand upon . the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) say that the conservative still respect the independence of the rule of law , but I have hear member on those Benches refer to lefty activist judge as if somehow the judiciary in Britain be populate by radical Marxists . that be not the case . I be a lawyer and I spend 13 year in practice . I have never meet a judge who be anything but genuinely commit to the apolitical upholding of the law . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] it be incredibly important that we continue to recognise and promote those principle . I say that partly from a genuine ideological position and partly from experience . Britain have export £ 9 . 5 billion in legal service in the last year . one of the reason for that level of success be that there be genuine belief in our judiciary — people in multiple jurisdiction across the world trust that our judge will hear dispute impartially . when we talk like Conservative Members have in a criminal or civil context , we damage not only our institution but our economy . we have to understand the importance of the british rule of law and we need to promote and uphold it at all cost . those who do not do so damage our country . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] do the hon . member think it appropriate for an immigration judge to support and advocate for a charity that be actively try to stop asylum law be implement ? should an immigration judge be involve in an organisation like that ? I do not know the detail of the case to which the hon . member refer , which make it impossible for I to give an informed comment by return . none the less , I can genuinely say , speak from 13 or 14 year ' experience practise as a solicitor before I come to this place , as well as a lot of time spend in the Labour party and meeting leftie people , that the two do not really overlap . they just do not . do the hon . Lady accept that , in a democracy , it be important to be able to hold everybody to account , include judge ? do she accept that we need to be able to check that they be make good decision on behalf of everybody ? the hon . Member appear to be ignore the entire recruitment process for the judiciary , which fundamentally , at its heart , emphasise the independence of those people from political interference , and also the fact that the application of the law should not be subject to political interference in this place . that be absolutely fundamental . judge be not get up every morning and just come up with ludicrous leftie position . the picture that be sometimes paint by those on the Opposition Benches be just fanciful . it bear no relationship to my experience of engage with the actual judiciary on an ongoing basis . would the hon . Lady agree that it be outrageous that member of this House should hold up a judge ' s wig at a party conference , and that judge therefore have increase security risk ? the member of the judiciary that I have speak to have very genuine concern about their personal security , particularly immigration judge . they be genuinely frightened of do their job , and that will be affect judicial recruitment . we need immigration judge to be able to stand up and serve the judiciary . many judge take a pay cut to become a judge , and they deserve our genuine respect . they work very hard in a system that have be grotesquely underfunde for 14 year . lastly , I would like to mention new clause 40 , which be table by the Liberal Democrats . I have refer to cross - party work elsewhere . I understand that it might not be in the exactly right format for the Government to it take forward today , but I hope that the Minister will consider how we will deal with the fact that people be not receive training when they be on remand and be often release at the end of that time . it be a serious issue that deserve serious consideration . I have ask previously in the Justice Committee about what work be do with people on remand , particularly in respect of domestic abuse offence . in my opinion , we be miss an opportunity for people , without accept any sort of guilt , to engage in service that many would benefit from , consider their general behaviour , irrespective of whether their original offence be relate to domestic abuse . in fact , all of we could benefit from those opportunity for reflection . People spend a lot of time in prison , and at the moment it be not be use as effectively as I and many other would like it to be . that bring I back to my original point . Government Members absolutely believe in punishment , but fundamentally we also believe in rehabilitation , and the emphasis on that in this Bill be very much to be welcome . I will speak to my new clause : new clause 4 on probation capacity and new clause 17 on the devolution of probation to Wales . I also support new clause 2 and 3 , as well as new clause 19 and 30 , which relate to relate to IPP sentencing . first , let I commend the diligent work of my constituent , Rhianon Bragg , and fellow activist who have help place vital victim safeguard measure on the face of the Bill , particularly in relation to the restriction zone condition in clause 16 and 24 . I have question and subsequently write to the Secretary of State for further clarification on the detail of those measure , and I look forward to his response , which will help provide those vital assurance to Rhianon and other victim and survivor . the measure entail put the restriction condition around the perpetrator rather than the victim , and that be a major step ahead in our approach to look after victim . there be no escape the fact that the Bill will heap extra pressure on the Probation Service , which be slowly come back from be on its knee follow the transformation of rehabilitation under the last Government . I would like to put on the record that , last week , I have the honour of address the annual conference of the probation officer union , Napo , in my capacity as co - chair of the justice union parliamentary group . Speaker after speaker at the conference , include Chief Inspector Martin Jones , warn that probation officer be under unprecedented pressure and simply can not cope with their current workload . staff be genuinely worried that the Bill will make that already acute problem worse and will risk destabilise the service far , which will lead to a great risk to public protection . that be why , as be propose in new clause 4 , an independent assessment of whether the Probation Service have the capability and the capacity to take on additional work be vital . new clause 4 , which be fully support by Napo , would require the inspectorate ' s approval to be provide before extra pressure be place on our overstretch Probation Service by provision in the Bill . it would also empower the inspectorate to trigger special measure for probation delivery unit or entire region , and a prioritisation framework that would give probation officer more flexibility to focus on high - risk case and drop the non - essential and low - priority task that take up so much of their time . since those year when there be so much pressure on the Probation Service , probation officer have effectively be penalise for their willingness to take responsibility for risky decision , which we be go to require they to make . if we be to enable probation officer to do their work more effectively , we must give they the capacity to think through the risk in order to be prepare not to go ahead on the safe possible route . currently , only regional probation director have the power to ask for their region or unit to be put into the prioritisation framework , the criterion for which I be tell be base solely on the number of probation officer . Napo believe that criterion to be wholly inadequate , as it do not take into account the grade of the staff or their workload , and that it must be broaden to take into account probation officer ' day - to - day workload . rest such power with director also disincentivise the trigger of special measure because it lead to accusation of their be allow to mark their own homework . if the inspectorate have that power instead , there could be an objective , holistic assessment of the full capacity of that area , which would include much broad criterion than be currently the case . I sincerely hope that the Government will listen and support the spirit , if not the specific text , of new clause 4 . new clause 17 would do what many have long call for : devolve probation and offender management to Wales by amend the Government of Wales Act 2006 . that be not a political ask ; it be an operational one , and it come from within the service . when Napo Cymru executive Su McConnel give evidence to the Welsh Affairs Committee in May , she not only provide on - the - ground insight into the reality of the Probation Service in Wales , but make it clear that the UK Government be ignore expert advice by refuse to turn away from their fail centralised approach to probation . locally base and community - centre probation be desperately need and be loudly advocate for by probation staff in Wales and expert and academic alike . as the chair of the Thomas commission rightly say , follow a question from my Plaid Cymru colleague in the other place , it would be useful to know why the unanimous recommendation of a completely apolitical group of expert be think to be wrong by the UK Government . I add to that the recommendation of the Silk commission report , the Gordon Brown report and that of the independent commission on the constitutional future of Wales . Gordon Brown — a former Labour Prime Minister — make this recommendation . although the report recommend the devolution of justice to Wales to various degree , the devolution of probation be an undebatable commonality — it be ask for by all those report . this be not an ill - prepare amendment ; it be root in year and mountain of evidence , datum and analysis . this be what the expert say need to be do for the situation in Wales , where we have the jagged edge of devolution and so many of those critical service already devolve . this be different from any region of England , and for it to work more effectively , the devolution of probation would be the first step in bring all that together . if this proposal make it into law , a wealth of knowledge would be at our fingertip wait to be use , as the now disaggregate justice datum for Wales have be finally publish after year and year of demand it . I mention in particular the diligent work of Cardiff University ' s Dr Rob Jones in help secure that datum , and I look forward to his analysis of it . the point be that if probation be finally devolve , the datum could inform our service and practice in the specific context of Wales , address the structural issue that we see and experience , and integrate with those area crucial to rehabilitation that have already be devolve for over a quarter of a century — namely health , housing and social policy . that be what people on the frontline actually want . probation officer be cry out for reorganisation and for a Welsh probation system uncouple from the Prison Service , and inform by and responsive to our community . that be what they know will work for they on the frontline , not for executive at the Ministry of Justice or at private company . this will work well for community in Wales . instead of ideologically cling on to a centralised England and Wales service and " explore " , as we understand the Government intend to do , the prospect of devolve probation , this Labour UK Government should just get on with it . labour in Wales agree with Plaid Cymru , and it agree back when the Conservatives be in government , that justice should be devolve in full . when the Conservatives be in government , Labour in Wales push for that , but now we have Labour in power at both end of the M4 , we be experience a watering down of those ambition for Wales . what be say before be not be say now , and that be deeply disappointing . with so many of our social policy lever already devolve , full devolution would provide Wales with the opportunity to create and implement a cohesive , holistic justice and rehabilitation strategy that work for the people of Wales and for our specific community and need . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response to these argument on both amendment at the close of the debate , and I hope to see his Government act on the actual call of probation staff deal with these issue on the frontline . I will speak to new clause 28 , " gambling treatment requirement " and new clause 29 , " gambling addiction : support for offender " . I thank the Minister and the Ministry of Justice , the NHS , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Department of Health and Social Care for their sustained engagement and understanding on this topic . these be probe amendment , and I will withdraw they . however , I wish to highlight the real urgency with which we must treat gambling disorder with parity of esteem to drug and alcohol addiction in the criminal justice system . gambling can be a fun hobby which many of we enjoy — even I like a flutter on the lottery and have a soft spot for bingo . but what begin as the odd bet or game can quickly escalate , and some sadly spiral into problem gambling . once an addiction take hold , disorder gambling can break down family , cause people to lose their job and may trigger criminal behaviour . those affect may turn to acquisitive crime to fund their addiction or pay their debt , and affect other may turn to crime to recoup their partner ' s debt . problem gambling be associate with not only acquisitive crime , but street violence , domestic abuse and neglect . that , of course , lead to many harm for the person themselves , their family and the victim of their crime . although the link between problem gambling and crime remain relatively under - research , the available evidence illuminate several concern trend . problem gambler be over four time more likely to be in prison . while there be example of good support specific to problem gambling , there be currently no statutory requirement to provide treatment to people convict of gambling - relate offence . I have receive report of people with problem gambling only be give treatment design for drug or alcohol dependency , general mental health support or no treatment at all . none of those option treat the very specific and complex issue relate to problem gambling and crime . without this , people risk enter a cycle of reoffende , with harm escalate each time and more and more victim . I be give a case recently in which a woman who develop a gambling addiction after a traumatic life event receive no support during her custodial sentence . she be instead direct to a drug and alcohol course , which she find incredibly unhelpful . in another case , a man imprison be not offer any treatment in custody at all and experience a rife culture of gambling while in prison . he leave prison with no treatment and no path to recovery . it must be acknowledge that in many case , gambling disorder be one part of a wide network of vulnerability contribute to offend and reoffende . problem gambler often struggle with alcohol or drug misuse , mental health issue or underlie trauma . my hon . friend be make a powerful case that I wholeheartedly support . she be outline not only the real problem that gambling addiction cause but the trauma that often lead to it , which show how important rehabilitation be . we have hear much from Opposition Members today about how everybody should be punish and how this Bill be a soft option . do my hon . friend agree that require people to drill down into the cause of their offending be far from an easy option ? it be a very difficult thing to ask people to do , and it be essential that we give they the support they need to look at their life and turn it around . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , and I wholeheartedly agree . Prison should be rehabilitative . any offender should have that support , to prevent reoffende . it be right for our society , it be right for potential victim , and it be right for offender , who often resort to criminality due to very severe personal circumstance and trauma . gambling disorder be recognise as a mental health condition . lead mental health assessment tool such as the DSM - 5 — the fifth edition of the " diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders " — and the World Health Organisation ' s international classification of disease classify gambling as an addiction with similar cognitive and psychological effect to those of substance use disorder . Research indicate that once an individual begin chase their gambling loss with further gambling , their cognitive functioning become impaired . change can occur in brain chemistry and neurocognitive function , and the ability to make rational decision — such as choose whether to engage in criminal behaviour to manage debt or to continue gamble — become compromise . there be the link . the criminal justice system recognise the psychological impact of drug and alcohol dependency . drug and alcohol dependency be mitigate factor , with sentence guideline , treatment pathway and rehabilitation requirement , as set out in the Sentencing Act 2020 . my hon . friend be make a very strong argument , draw parallel between gambling addiction and drug and alcohol abuse . early this year , as a member of the Public Accounts Committee , I question Government official about the endemic use of drug in prison . the Carol Black report look at this back in 2020 — order . how long have you be in the Chamber ? have you just walk in ? no , I have not just walk in . this be the third speech I have listen to . okay . make sure your intervention be short . a lot of drug user be repeat offender , as my hon . friend be say about those with a gambling addiction . do she agree that a shift to community provision might enable people to get the rehabilitation they need for their addiction , whether it be drug , alcohol or gambling ? I do . I reiterate that to break the cycle of reoffending or recidivism , rehabilitation must be at the heart of all sentencing and punishment , be it community or custodial . under the Sentencing Act 2020 , an individual suffering from drug and alcohol addiction receive targeted support through the alcohol treatment and drug treatment requirement for community order and suspend sentence , yet no such legislation ensure that individual serve community order or suspend sentence for gambling - relate offence seek rehabilitative treatment . pre - sentence report can include problem gambling , and the court may decide that an offender be suitable for a mental health treatment requirement as part of a community order or suspend sentence . however , although problem gambling be associate with depression and a heighten risk of suicide , the mental health treatment requirement do not directly treat gambling disorder . at present , no specific requirement directly address disorder gambling . new clause 28 seek to resolve that by establish a statutory gambling treatment requirement for those serve community order or suspend sentence . Most of those face a custodial sentence leave custody without treatment . they do not recover from their addiction , and they be at an increasingly high risk of reoffende after lose their home , job , and experience family breakdown . prison be often a hotbed for gambling activity , and treatment be absent . ten per cent of man report gambling regularly while in prison , and 41 % of people on probation report gamble more than once a week . gambling disorder should therefore be recognise throughout the criminal justice process where gambling disorder be a causal factor . as with drug and alcohol treatment , court should be empower to impose community order and suspend sentence that include referral to specific gambling disorder treatment . where custody be impose , prison should provide access to gambling treatment and peer support , equivalent to that available for drug and alcohol addiction . new clause 28 and 29 seek to establish statutory parity , ensure that treatment - base sentencing option be available , with continuity of care in both custody and upon release . there be already example of good practice . GamLEARN offer incredible support , and its model show what work : treatment , peer support and family support . the West Midlands Gambling Harms Clinic offer free evidence - base specialist psychological therapy to individual harm by gambling . train psychological professional provide cognitive behavioural therapy in a variety of format , include SilverCloud , a confidential online platform . online support could follow people if they be move on , whether in custodial or community sentence , ensure continuity of support . I thank gamlearn and the West Midlands Gambling Harms Clinic for work with I . I also thank Sarah Page from Staffordshire University , whose research have be instrumental in highlight the challenge face by problem gambler in the criminal justice system . although I will not be press my amendment , I believe that we must break the cycle of reoffende and make a difference to individual , their family and their victim . without statutory recognition and parity with drug and alcohol addiction , people in recovery be be hold back , their family be destabilise , and prison be leave to manage untreated addiction without dedicated provision . I again acknowledge the positive engagement with the Minister thus far , and I support the Bill . I look forward to further discussion about the work be do to provide appropriate rehabilitative treatment for those convict as a result of their problem gambling . today I speak in favour of the eight amendment table by Reform UK . simply put , the Bill be motivate by the desire to free up prison space , and not by what be the good way to administer justice . its primary function be not the protection of the public , or the protection of victim of crime or abuse — in fact , it be the opposite . clause 1 be about the presumption of suspension of a custodial sentence of 12 month or less . we propose an amendment to remove clause 1 , which effectively discourage the magistrate court from impose a custodial sentence . there be circumstance when a custodial sentence of 12 month or less be entirely appropriate , and the clause be tie the hand of magistrate , who will be under pressure from the clerk not to impose a prison sentence . what do that mean for those find in possession of a bladed article , namely a knife — an offence that currently attract a mandatory six - month prison sentence ? with this presumption of suspension clause , be the Minister now suggest that offender who be find guilty of carry a knife will now have their sentence automatically suspend ? if so , what do this mean for knife crime on our street and the protection of the public ? community sentence option be often limit due to defendant claim anxiety and depression , mean that unpaid work be not an option and that tagging may be limit . in addition , fine be often meaningless because so many defendant be claim universal credit . let I turn to clause 18 and 19 . we have table new clause 24 , which would abolish the Sentencing Council all together . the Sentencing Council be introduce to give statutory guidance to the judiciary to avoid inconsistency in sentencing decision . however , we believe that its work have become prescriptive and politicised , as show by clause 19 . we live in an era of two - tier justice . let we not forget that in March , the Sentencing Council propose treat ethnic minority offender more leniently than white offender . the Justice Secretary have to step in and overrule the Sentencing Council in order to stop this madness . for these reason , the Sentencing Council should be abolish and sentence power should lie solely at the discretion of judge . I sit on the Public Accounts Committee . early this year , we investigate the state of our prison system and all the sort of thing that one should describe as restorative justice . the fact be that our prison be overflow , they be not make anybody any well or turn people around , and they do not provide restorative justice . as I know to my own cost , it cost four time more to keep a prisoner in prison for a year than it do to send a boy to Eton . I thank the hon . Lady for the Eton example . I be sure that will resonate very well with my constituent in Runcorn . do the hon . Lady agree that if there be not enough prison place , then we should build more of they , not let people out of prison ? that be what we should be do — [ interruption . ] remember , this be a Government who find untold amount of money to house illegal immigrant . we need to do the same for prisoner . I absolutely agree with the right hon . Lady — [ interruption . ] on a point of order , Ms Ghani . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) just swear at my hon . friend the Member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) . indicate dissent . I can see that the hon . gentleman in question be shake his head , so I assume that no swearing have actually take place . can he confirm that ? indicate assent . Sarah Pochin , will you please continue ? we propose an amendment to remove clause 20 all together . the clause propose to reduce the time serve of a custodial sentence from a half to a third in order to free up prison capacity . this mean that dangerous criminal who have be lock up for some of the bad possible offence , include paedophile , could be let back into the community after serve only a third of their sentence behind bar . only the most serious offender , include those convict of rape , will serve half their sentence in jail , reduce from two third . [ interruption . ] as the hon . Lady be lay out the reality , Government Members be chuntere and suggest that what she be say be not true , so may I point out that the Library briefing clearly say that those with sentence of over four year for a violent or sexual offence who be currently release at the two third point of sentence would be release at the halfway point under the new provision ? that be a fact . I thank shadow Minister for support I on that point . I turn to clause 24 , 36 and 37 with respect to licence . these clause all give power to the Probation Service to reduce the length of a community order impose by the judge or magistrate . the Probation Service be underfunde and overstretch already , and the real risk be that offender will have their requirement reduce by probation officer in order to free up capacity in the service . the probation officer already have discretion on the number of day of rehabilitation require , and it be dangerous to give any more quasi - judicial power to the Probation Service . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will make some progress ; I have give way a lot . let I move on and make a point of clarification with respect to clause 26 , 27 and 28 , which be on recall . the current system allow for fix - term recall of 14 day for custodial sentence of less than 12 month and 28 day for custodial sentence of one to four year . standard recall offender serve the rest of their sentence . can the Minister confirm that this Bill introduce FTR and SR of 56 day for all custodial sentence of less than four year , with the exception of terrorist , such that offender who have commit serious crime include assault , robbery and possession of knife or other offensive weapon could be out again in two month ? that be not protect the public . however , I welcome the fact that the presumption of 56 day ' recall do not apply for domestic violence offender who have breach their licence condition and go on to reoffend . clause 42 be about foreign criminal . I propose to replace the clause and to move new clause 25 , which would apply an automatic deportation order to foreign criminal sentence to at least six month ' imprisonment or a six - month community sentence . the Secretary of State write to member of Parliament claim that he have strengthen the ability of the Government to deport foreign criminal . he say in a letter that it will be the duty of the Home Secretary to deport foreign offender who receive at least a 12 - month custodial sentence , yet in the same letter he state that " this be subject to several exception , include where to do so would be a breach of a person ' s echr right or the UK ' s obligation under the Refugee Convention . " in other word , nothing will change and no one will get deport . finally , new clause 26 would make an addition to the Bill refer to as " Criminal Cases Review ( Public Petition ) " . under the new clause , if it appear to any british citizen age 18 or over that the sentencing of a person in the Crown court have be unduly lenient or harsh , that british citizen — the petitioner — may refer the case to the Criminal Cases Review Commission for it to review the sentence . there would mean that there would be a platform for defendant like Rhys McDonald and Chris Taggart in my constituency , who receive an average of 30 month for an ill - advise tweet , to have their sentence appeal . I call Catherine Atkinson . [ interruption . ] I call John McDonnell . thank you , Ms Ghani ; it be nice to be a substitute . like other in the Chamber , I be a member of the justice union parliamentary group , and I will speak very briefly to new clause 3 . as many member know , the justice union group comprise the probation officer ' union , Napo , as well as the Prison Officers Association and the PCS . it act as the voice of the frontline worker in Parliament from those particular union . there be an overall welcoming of the Bill by the union themselves , which be good , but a specific concern have be raise with we with regard to the development of unpaid work and community service , and how that be manage in the future . many member will also know about the history of community service ; in fact , in the past we have have a few member in this House who do a bit of community service — but that be another issue all together . historically , it have be a way in which people have be able to avoid prison sentence : by work in the community and make reparation for the damage that they have often cause in it . I think we can report that it have be relatively successful in most of our constituency . unfortunately , though , there have be experiment with privatisation , include of the management of the service ; and there have be debate about whether this could be unpaid labour for private company . in London , in 2013 , community service be privatised to Serco . it be an absolute disaster . there be a lack of supervision on site , a lack of worker , and a lack of tool be deliver . it be also expose that offender be sometimes be cram into vehicle that be unsuitable and unsafe . as a result , that privatisation collapse . the last Government then engage in a wholesale privatisation of probation , under the title , " transformation of rehabilitation " . that include unpaid work and community service . again , even the last Government have to accept that probation would have to be bring back in house because of a combination of incompetence and profiteering , alongside a failure to go for realistically effective rehabilitation . during that period , the National Association of Probation Officers express to the Government its opposition to privatisation , and take action by refer the matter to the International Labour Organisation , as a breach of the ILO ' s convention on forced labour . the ILO find in favour of the union , frame its judgment in this way : " all work or service that be exact from any person under the menace of any penalty and for which the say person have not offer himself " or herself voluntarily be force labour . it make an exception of " work as a consequence of a conviction in a court of law " . however , the ILO also say that the person must not be " hire or place at the disposal of private individual , company or association " . the union be seek an assurance from the Government that they will abide by the ILO convention , and will not place this force labour with private company , as that would enable those company to profiteer from those worker , and would prevent those who want a job from be hire legitimately . the union also ask that we prevent a repetition of the disaster of privatisation . it say that if there be an increase in community sentence , there obviously have to be adequate staffing through the Probation Service , as have be say , and recognition of the failure of the private sector to manage this process in the past . the union want to remind member that there be a requirement for supervision to be adequately staff , because there be a concern about the nature of unpaid labour placement and how they will be supervise in future . there be already concern about what be happen ; we be deal with case involve people who have commit knife crime , domestic violence or stalking , and there be issue with the mental health of some of the offender be supervise , as well as drug - relate issue . there be a fear of heighten risk if privatisation be attempt again , and if private company offer placement in their company for the sake of profiteer . all new clause 3 seek be an assurance from the Minister , preferably in the Bill , that unpaid work will be undertake only for non - profit organisation . in the past , such work have be undertake for these body , include social enterprise , voluntary organisation and , yes , local authority , work with local community initiative . the private sector should never be allow to profit from such work . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s clarification that charity would still be able to provide these placement . I have a fantastic charity in my constituency , upCYCLE , which teach bike maintenance skill to help rehabilitate people . currently , that be do in prison , but when there be more community sentence , that sort of charity will want to give people skill and meaningful work in the community . I just want to clarify that this be not about exclude charity . that be exactly in the tradition of community service as it be found and develop over the year , but the experiment with privatisation have be a disaster . there be an argument that once a system start use the private sector , as in America , offender become economic unit for exploitation and profiteering . the Justice Unions Parliamentary Group warn that we should not venture down that path , both as a result of historical failure , and give what have happen in other country when the private sector have be able to use offender in that way . the new clause be about return to the traditional community service approach in this country . it be relatively effective , but in this new Sentencing Bill , which we welcome , it will be expand on a scale perhaps not envisage in the past . it be as simple as that . the right hon . member be well known for his long - term support for the Prison Officers Association . while he be on his foot , will he commit to support our new clause 16 , which would close the loophole relate to whole life order for the murder of prison officer ? I declare an interest as an honorary life member of the Prison Officers Association . this be about the only time I have disagree with it . I will not support that measure , although I understand where it be come from , and I understand that there may well be a review of sentencing , and what be take into account , when these action tragically occur . to have a mandatory sentence like that would most probably not be appropriate , although the shadow Minister be right that the Prison Officers Association have argue strongly for the measure , and I respect that . my final point relate not to new clause 3 , but to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) on the naming and shaming of offender and the idea that offender ’ photograph will be publicise locally . he suggest in his amendment that there should be much wide consultation on the issue , and probation officer be say exactly the same thing . a lot of their role in rehabilitation be about ensure that people have a connection with their family once again . they be concerned about the effect that name and shaming have on the family , and in particular the child . sometimes , the family serve the sentence alongside the offender , and we would not want any action take that increase the stigma for family member of offender . if the Government be go down this path , there be a need for more detailed and widespread consultation and discussion . last week , I meet one of my constituent , Tracey Hanson , in Parliament to honour the 10 - year anniversary of the tragic loss of her son Josh , who be murder in an unprovoked knife attack in Hillingdon , west London , in October 2015 . we speak about the tireless work that she have put into campaigning for victim ' right , and I hear more about how the law that she want to introduce — Josh ' s law — would ensure that the right of victim and their family to appeal under the unduly lenient sentence scheme be clear and equal to the right of offender . I will speak specifically to new clause 12 , table by my hon . friend the Member for the beautiful Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . after cruelly take the life of Josh Hanson , Shane o ' Brien abscond and evade police for three and a half year before he be finally catch . dub Britain ' s most wanted man at the time , o ' Brien be sentence to at least 26 year in prison , just one year above the minimum sentence . after just miss the deadline to appeal the sentence as a result of unclear information about victim ' family ' right under the unduly lenient sentence scheme , Tracey have spend year campaign to ensure that no other victim face what her family do . unfortunately , far too many victim and their family face the same problem , simply because they be not be make aware of their right to appeal sentence . there be also concern number of case in which clerical error — in one case I hear of , it be an email stick in a barrister ' s outbox — lead to the Attorney General run out of time and miss the deadline to appeal a sentence . while appeal from offender will still be consider by the Attorney General outside the 28 - day window in exceptional circumstance , appeal from victim or their family will not . historically , victim be at the centre of the justice system . victim be the drive force in bring criminal case , and play a central role throughout the process . it be not until the 19th century that there be a significant shift towards state - lead prosecution , with the victim , rather than criminal case , significantly diminish . the focus only start to shift back towards the victim with the very recent introduction of the first victim ' s charter in 1990 . I believe that we must recapture more of the focus from the state , and divert it back to those who be most directly impact by crime . the life of Tracey and her family will never be the same again . they should have be a central focus in the criminal case , and should have receive the same right , and information about their right to appeal against the sentencing decision , as the offender do . it be vital that victim and their family be clearly inform about their right to appeal under the unduly lenient sentence scheme . new clause 12 would require the Crown Prosecution Service to write to victim , or their next of kin , within 10 work day of a sentence be pass , provide detail of the unduly lenient sentence scheme , the application process for the scheme and the deadline , which would also be extend , give victim a well chance of benefit from the scheme . my hon . friend be make a bold case on behalf of victim . I hope that he will agree that the more we agonise about the circumstance of the guilty , the more we displace consideration of the effect on the innocent . over the whole of my lifetime , the focus on the circumstance of wicked people have have exactly that effect , and unfortunately it have permeate so much of the establishment , include the judiciary ; sentence be sometimes inadequate for that very reason . I think that the justification for not change that approach over many year have be an argument about finality of sentence , and give the offender that finality . I do not think that stack up today ; we need to afford victim more right and more sensitivity within the system . new clause 12 be total common sense , and should be support by member on both side of the Committee . it put victim at the heart of sentencing , and do not compromise the need for finality in sentencing . it push the date back , but it do not change the status of that finality . I want to speak about new clause 5 and amendment 22 and 23 in my name . the Government ' s commitment to tackle violence against woman and girl be never just a pledge , never just a slogan ; it have always be about action — about change thing for woman , girl and victim everywhere for the well . we have see that time and again under this Government . indeed , just today , they announce that child sexual abuse offender convict of serious sex offence against any child will now automatically lose their parental responsibility after be sentence , rather than victim have to be drag through the tough and costly family court process . this Bill move we forward in our mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on perpetrator of domestic abuse , I have always argue that we must focus on tackle perpetrator ' behaviour . instead of ask , " why doesn ' t she leave ? " , we must ask , " why doesn ' t he stop ? " I therefore welcome the new restriction zone that the Bill will introduce , which will limit the movement of perpetrator , rather than victim , and the increase use of tagging . I be also pleased to see the new judicial finding of domestic abuse , which will revolutionise our understanding of sentencing for domestic abuse and ensure that we can exclude perpetrator from future measure that put victim at risk . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will make progress . the expansion of specialist domestic abuse court be also very exciting . I be concern , however , by the provision that allow for the automatic re - release of recall perpetrator after 56 day , and fear that they may place some victim at serious risk of harm . those who perpetrate crime such as domestic abuse and stalking know everything about their victim — where they live , where they work , where their child go to school , their regular routine — and we know how fixate such abuser can be . although I welcome the exemption of those manage under MAPPA — multi - agency public protection arrangement — category 2 and 3 , I must note that this will not capture the vast majority of domestic abuser . by the point a perpetrator be sentence , it be likely that their victim have already be subject to abuse for year . SafeLives , a domestic abuse charity , have find that high - risk victim live with domestic abuse for 2 . 5 year . they will just be begin to rebuild their life when their perpetrator be release from prison . if the perpetrator go on to harass their victim , their probation officer may decide to recall they to prison , but after 56 day they will be release again , potentially to harass or abuse . they may again be recall , and then release again 56 day later . I can see no provision in the Bill to prevent this cycle , which could end in serious harm or the death of a victim . it be right that breach of domestic abuse protection order or other order may send perpetrator straight back to prison . however , the sad truth be that victim may not always recognise breach of an order , or they may be too scared to call it in . even when they do , very few breach be act on by the police . Recall be an important tool in ensure that victim be safeguard in the short term , but we can not create a system in which there be a cycle of ever - increase risk . as a result , I have table amendment 22 and 23 , and new clause 5 , which seek to address this issue by ensure that any offender who be recall on the basis of contact with their victim be not automatically release after 56 day , but be instead holistically risk assess and hold in custody until their risk to the victim have be reduce to the extent that it can be manage in the community . by break the cycle , my amendment would address some of the concern raise by senior police and probation official regard the resource pressure of recall and hold in custody . we know what the Tories do to address the prison overcrowding crisis — absolutely nothing — and we will not take lecture from they . in clear up their mess and avoid the collapse of our criminal justice system , we must ensure that safeguard victim be our first priority . I look forward to work with the Government and colleague from across the House to ensure that we can do just that . finally , I be interested to hear about new clause 38 , table by the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , on screen for traumatic brain injury . I work with brain injury researcher on their early research on screening , and hope that the Minister look closely at this vital new clause . I have not intend to start this way but I will do so , follow the last remark by the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) about acquire brain injury . I be chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for acquire brain injury , and we recently hold a session specifically on the relationship between acquire brain injury and the criminal justice system . she be quite right to emphasise that . I will say no more in detail about it , except to refer the Minister to the report that we publish , which include a section on criminal justice and acquire brain injury . beyond that , in talk about the fundamental consideration of this Bill , I want to speak about the fact , the reason for they , their effect and the alternative , very much in the spirit that my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) speak in when move her amendment . I recommend her amendment , almost without reservation . they be a bold attempt to rescue the Bill from the damage it might do . I do not claim that that damage be intentional , because I do not think that anyone in this House intend to do harm — we would not be here if we do . none the less , as my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) say , harm , whether unintended or otherwise , will be the result of this legislation . it be undeniable , I be afraid , that the Government present to the House a paradox . on one hand , they say that this Bill be necessary because of practicality , include the inadequate number of prison place . that be a plausible argument , because the prison population have grow , as we hear early in the debate , and we simply do not have enough place to accommodate all those who might be send to prison . on the other hand , they say that it be a matter of principle , and they tell we that short sentence do not work . in do so , they be concede to the rehabilitationist argument that have pervade criminal justice thinking and criminology more generally for the whole of my lifetime . I remember that when I be study criminology at university , there be exactly that narrative . other academic challenge it : Philip Bean , the criminologist , write a definitive book call " Rehabilitation and Deviance " , in which he make the case for just retribution . the public certainly believe that the criminal justice system should be retributive . my right hon . friend be talk about a contradiction in the Government ' s position , but be there not another one ? Labour Members and Ministers in particular talk about the volume of people who be go to be release as a result of their measure , but whenever they be confront with example of actual offence commit by the sort of offender they will be let go , they always say , " well , it wouldn ' t apply to they . " the Government can not have it both way : either a lot of people be get out of prison , include some of these people , or they be not . they have to make up their mind . it be certainly true that a very significant proportion of criminal be repeat offender , and there be people who choose to live a life of crime . this be not an illness to be treat ; it be a malevolent choice to be deal with through punishment , because we need to punish people for do harm . that be not complicated — it be what all our constituent would take as read — yet , as I say , we seem to agonise about it perpetually . refer to my early comment , the datum show that one in four prisoner be drug user and have a drug and alcohol problem , and they constitute many of the reoffender . give that datum , do the right hon . Member not agree with I that we should be rehabilitate and medically treat those addiction , so that they be not catch up in the criminal justice system ? it be certainly true that one perverse choice lead to other consequence , and when people become involved in drug , it often lead to all kind of horror . the key thing be therefore to stop people get involve in drug , and successive government , include this one , have intend to do that . through a series of measure , we try to deter people from involvement in drug , to deal with drug dealer and to do all the other thing that you will not allow I to speak about at length , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I would be deviate from the content of the amendment if I do — order . you should learn that one temper oneself , Sir John . I be extremely grateful , Madam Chairman . this be very much still on topic . the challenge with the argument that Labour Members put forward on rehabilitation be that it presuppose that all we need to do be put someone on a drug rehabilitation course once , and they will stop offend and it be all fantastic . the evidence show the complete opposite . even the very good drug rehabilitation course that money can buy at the Priory have a long - term success rate of about 50 % . in reality , whatever we do , some of these offender be go down a path from which they will not be turn for a significant length of time , and that be when we have to put they in prison . I do agree with my hon . friend . just step back a moment , Ms Ghani , I be mindful that the only female Speaker we have ever have once famously declare , " call I Madam " , so I will from now on call you Madam Chairman rather than anything else . it be certainly true that we need a war against drug , drug dealing and all the effect of drug , but it would be quite wrong to separate that from the public desire to see people who do bad thing deal with appropriately . when those bad thing be at their extreme , and as my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton point out , we be speak of extreme — act of violence against woman , minor and , let we face it , man — they need to be deal with with severity . there be nothing wrong with say that because it be what most people intuitively feel , and it be right that they do . Grotius , the jurist , once say that criminal justice be about " the infliction of an ill suffer for an ill do " , and that sense that the punishment must fit the crime ring true now , as it do when he make that observation . the Minister need to explain whether the Bill be about practicality or principle . I have yet to determine which position the Government have take . I just want to highlight the fact that it be possible to believe that offender need to be punish , as I do — when I be an officer , I be part of deliver that punishment — and simultaneously that rehabilitation should be a part of the prison system . while I agree with the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) that some offender be not ready to begin the rehabilitation journey , that do not mean that we should not stand ready to provide it for those who be ready , as it ultimately drive down reoffende and reduce the number of victim , which should be at the heart of everything we do . punishment and rehabilitation need to work hand in hand . the hon . Lady make a valid point . while I attack the rehabilitationist dogma , I do of course believe that we should try to save soul , and the good way of do that be to address people ' s fundamental problem , as many member across the Committee have say in the course of this debate . that might be about ensure that people have adequate learning , or it might be about the acquisition of a particular skill . the hon . Lady will know from her rich experience in these matter that if someone can get a job when they leave prison , they be much less likely to reoffend . when someone in those circumstance be unable to get a job , it be usually a result of the fact that they do not have core skill , in term of basic competency , or specialist skill . where those can be provide through learn in prison , that undoubtedly have beneficial result — I have see that myself in prison , where I have meet both the people who run such service and the people receive they . the hon . Lady be therefore right . however , I be really speak about something more fundamental than that , which be a willingness to recognise — as the hon . Lady do , by the way , in her brief intervention — that punishment matter . the reticence or unwillingness to declare that as openly as I have , or the attempt to ignore or avoid it , be at odd with the instinct of the vast majority of our constituent . it be , perhaps , a product of a society that have lose its moral compass , where right and wrong have be erode through a kind of moral relativism . perhaps it be because of some quasi - freudian need to explain crime in more complex term than it may warrant — for it be simply a question of someone want something they can not get and use force , violence or some other mean to get it . the right hon . Gentleman be make a passionate and principled speech about punishment , but we be deal here with practicality . the Public Accounts Committee , of which I be a member , have look at the prison estate capacity . there be a pledge under the previous Government for 20 , 000 additional prison place ; just 6 , 518 of those be actually build . if the right hon . Gentleman be to pursue this line of say that everybody need to have a punishment without rehabilitation , I do not understand where , in practical term , he be go to put people . I agree with the hon . Lady , actually . I remember visit the former Justice Secretary — the former Member for Cheltenham , Alex Chalk — with my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , to tell he that we would not vote for it if that Government bring forward a measure to let people out early . my position on this matter have be entirely consistent ; I would not have vote for a conservative measure that let people out of prison early any more than I will vote for this measure tonight . I suggest three thing to the then Justice Secretary : first , that we deal more robustly with foreign national offender ; again , our constituent would be astound and appal if they realise just how many foreign national offender be in our prison . secondly , I suggest take emergency measure to provide prison place . after all , during covid , we build Nightingale hospital ; I suggest that we build Fry prison , name after the Tory prison reformer Elizabeth Fry , which will not be lose on the historian here in the Chamber . I do not see why that could not be do . thirdly , we should certainly explore prison that have be close in recent time , under Conservative and Labour Governments , and see which could be use , either temporarily or on a permanent basis . there be a whole range of measure that we could take . it be not easy , and I say that know what it be like be a Government Minister . none of those thing be easy , but they be all worthy of further exploration because of the effect that the legislation will have . I say I would talk about the effect of the measure , which be that very large number of people will be release from prison . the figure be alarming ; we could see over 40 , 000 people release early . we could see thousand of violent offender release . I appreciate that they be release on licence and that measure can be take through the Probation Service and the police to try to limit the harm they might do , but the reality be that there have already be a 36 % increase in recall . my estimation — I would go as far as to call it a prediction — be that that number will rise if we pass the Bill . I think recall will soar and the police and Probation Service will struggle to deal with that . as my hon . friend the shadow Minister predict , I would not be surprised if the Minister come back to the House with an amendment to this legislation to deal with that emergency , for that be what it will become . it will be a profound emergency for people affect by those who be release and commit crime again , because they will not all be petty offence . my right hon . friend talk about the number of people who will be release from prison . I speak early about the number of people who will not even be go to prison . all in all it will be ten of thousand of people not in prison . do my right hon . friend agree that when the public find this out , they will want that Government go ? as my right hon . Friend say with her typical clarity and passion , it may be that the Government bow to public pressure — and there will undoubtedly be public pressure of a kind she describe . we be speak about people who have do serious harm , include sex offender of the most extreme kind and violent repeat offender . these be not people who have commit minor indiscretion ; they be very serious criminal . the public will resist their release and protest about it , and the Minister may well feel oblige , as I be sure he be a man of principle , to return to the House and amend the legislation when its effect be truly and fully see . my judgment would be that the fact speak for themselves : thousand of people will be let out of prison who certainly should not be . the reason be as I describe they ; they be practical , but there be an underlying sentiment that I try to articulate : it be a fear of punishment and an unwillingness to recognise the retributive nature of criminal justice . as my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) set out far more eloquently than I ever could , the effect be likely to be devastating for our constituent and community across the country — and bear in mind that it will happen in every part of this country , every constituency will suffer as a result of the legislation . each one of we will , as good constituency mp , have to cope with some of these effect . the alternative be , as I describe when respond to an early intervention , to look at every possible mean of accommodate people in prison who deserve to be incarcerate — rise — I be come to my exciting finale , but I will happy give way on the way to it . I thank the hon . member for give way . do he agree with his hon . friend the Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) that the Conservative Government ' s record on prison building be shameful ? the former " Minister for Common Sense " , the hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , have be nod along when member have say that we need to build more prison . it certainly sound like common sense , but why on earth do the Conservative Government not do that ? on a purely technical point , I be right hon . and so be my right hon . friend the Members for Tatton and for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , but let we put that to one side . it be a matter of public record that I almost never disagree with my right hon . friend the Member for Fareham and Waterlooville . the truth be , she be right : we should have build more prison much early . we could have anticipate these thing — they can be model , after all . by the way , government be often surprisingly poor at modelling — I see that throughout my time in government — but we should have model this , give the trend change in the prison population . it might be helpful to give some of the number . three prison be build , with 8 , 500 place — they be delay because of lockdown — and another three prison be on the way . I note those figure early . my right hon . friend be right — we also rarely disagree , and I do not disagree with a word she say early — that more prison place be add , but there be two thing about that . what we do not really take necessary account of be the effect of sentence policy . if more people be sentence to incarceration , perfectly properly , that change the trend . we certainly could have deal more effectively with foreign national offender than we do , which be another grow problem . furthermore , over a long period of time , while we be add place we take some prison place out . we need to think about the number of prison that close . she be therefore right . [ interruption . ] it be not that we do nothing — far from it ; we do many good thing of the kind she describe — but , unfortunately , not enough account be take over a long enough period . it be not largely about the immediate policy of the previous Government . it go back much far than that to a series of government of both major party over a long time indeed . the modelling that I describe be decade - long modelling . it be an extremely difficult business to get planning permission to build a prison . the last government often struggle with resistance to have a prison build or expand in a locality . it be usually local constituency mp — we can imagine such people : liberal Democrat type — who come here and say one thing — [ interruption . ] notice that I say " type " rather than just Liberal Democrats . they say one thing but go back to their constituency and campaign against open a prison . rise — with that , I give way to the hon . Gentleman . I say to the right hon . Gentleman and many hon . member that the prison population be a supply - lead industry . if we build more prison , we will just get more prisoner . it do not address the issue . all history tell we that — look at America . we imprison more people in this country than be do in Europe , yet we have a high rate of criminality . More people be imprison in America than here , yet America have a high rate of criminality . building prison be a fool ' s errand . the thing that I most admire about the hon . Gentleman be his sartorial style — I glance across towards he early , and I be go to say to he as I leave the Chamber , " I love your suit " — but I rarely agree with what he say . we come from very different perspective . in a sense — I do not mean to be unkind — his view be part of the problem . the problem be the persistent idea that put people in prison be cruel and nasty . of course , it be pretty nasty , and most of our constituent think it should be — in fact , they probably think it should be nasty than it be . our difference of opinion will never be reconcile in a few brief exchange , but it be important to note that a range of sentence be available to the court — not just prison — and the key thing , about which I be sure we agree , be that those sentence need to be fitting to the event , fit to the effect of the crime and fitting to the interest of the victim , as my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) say in move his new clause . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his sartorial appreciation some time ago of my green suit , when he go on to ask whether I win it at a village f ê te . and do you ? I do not , but maybe the right hon . Gentleman can agree on the point that I want to make . he speak about the challenge that government have have when modelling prisoner number and the prison population . do he therefore agree with David Gauke , who recommend in his report that there should be an independent body that do that modelling , and be he disappoint that there be not a feature of that in the Bill ? no , I do not . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on use the word " appreciate " exactly as in its dictionary definition . I do appreciate his sartorial style , but that be not to say that I either admire or approve it . [ laughter . ] in respect of David Gauke , who be a former colleague and be commission to produce that report , I do not agree in essence with it . I be more inclined to agree with the analysis of the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle . there be a huge mistake in assume that incarceration be not of itself beneficial — to deal with the simple issue of recidivism , people can not do harm when they be lock up . by far the good and most straightforward way of deal with recidivism be to take people out of harm ' s way , and by that I mean take they out of do harm . if someone have commit a very serious crime , such as rape , murder or very violent assault , lock they up mean they will not do it again . release they mean , too often , that they will ; the statistic speak for themselves . if the Government want to really deal with recidivism , they should do three thing : increase the number of whole - life sentence , raise the minimum sentence for a whole range of crime and raise maximum sentence . to do that , they have to build more prison . the mission I give to the Government be that they jettison the Bill before it do harm , think about how they can devise and deliver alternative to that and be bold in make a case for a retributive system of criminal justice in a way that so few people have for so long . as a member of the Justice Committee , it be a privilege to speak in support of the Bill . I welcome the much - need reform that it will bring to our court and prison system . I wish to speak in support of clause 1 and amendment 36 , relate to sentence of 12 month or less , table by my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) . we be well aware in this House of the disastrous situation our prison system be leave in by the previous Government and I be proud that this Government be now confront the crisis head on . we be committed to not just short - term fix , but long - term reform . the Bill will tackle the root cause of the issue that lead to the crisis in the first place and rebuild a justice system that deliver fairness , safety and accountability to all in society . amendment 36 will do more than just reduce the pressure on our prison system ; it will represent a vital cultural shift , place rehabilitation and reintegration at the heart of our sentencing system . since become an MP , I have visit several prison and one thing that have become clear be how easy it be to fall into the reoffende cycle , especially for those who be serve short sentence . a minor offence can lead to a short prison sentence that can affect a prisoner ' s entire life . they leave prison and they have no home , no connection and no job . when they be release from prison , they have no option but to fall back into the same behaviour that put they in prison in the first place . we have already hear this afternoon that 80 % of offender in prison be reoffender . the prison environment can have a hugely detrimental effect on prisoner . we know , for example , that last year there be one prison where 21 % of the prisoner develop a drug problem only after enter custody . these prisoner be strip of have a second chance . the whole House agree early this afternoon that everyone deserve a second chance , but our justice system be compound the very problem it be try to solve . yes , justice be about punishment and retribution , but let we be clear , it be not just about punishment . it be not just about build as many prison as possible . our focus in the justice system must also be on prevent further harm and support rehabilitation programme to enable people to build a well life and help they to make the right choice . the suspend sentencing and community sentencing recommend by the amendment will help our court to focus on what work . they will not only help to reduce prison overcrowding but provide an overall net benefit to our society . community sentence allow offender to access mental health or addiction support while continue to maintain their life , so that they can get rehabilitation and reintegrate back into society as responsible citizen . the financial case be equally compelling . reoffende be estimate to cost over £ 18 billion every year , and it cost the taxpayer over £ 50 , 000 to imprison just one person for a single year . if we break the cycle , we can redirect those resource to our crucial public service . I agree that victim protection must be at the heart of all decision make in the justice system , and I be glad that while the Bill introduce a presumption to suspend short custodial sentence of 12 month or less . this be simply a presumption , which mean that judge will always have the option and the power to send dangerous offender or prolific lawbreaker to prison . furthermore , the presumption will not apply where an offender have breach a court order — include in the case of any violence against woman or girl — or a related protective order , where the offender have reoffende in breach of a previous suspend sentence , where the prisoner pose a significant risk of physical or psychological harm to an individual or where there be a clear risk to public safety . my hon . friend be make a powerful point about amendment 36 . it be imperative that when we look at improve the system as a whole , we understand the pressure that we be place on our court , include Snaresbrook criminal court in my constituency . do he agree that it be imperative that this should be a facet of all the change we hope to bring about ? I have visit Snaresbrook Crown court and I understand exactly what my hon . friend be say . he make a valid point . the pressure on our court system and our prison system be all interlink . it be important that victim get the justice they deserve , that the court be able to deliver it and that offender rehabilitation do not come at the cost of victim confidence . however , we must recognise that short - term prison sentence all too often do not work and instead merely cause disruption to people ' s life and kick - start a cycle of reoffende . where the court believe that justice be well serve through community rehabilitation , we must empower they to do put that in place . amendment 36 would require judge also to consider whether a community sentence be well than a prison sentence or a suspend prison sentence . I be proud to support this Bill because it centre on victim and allow they the protection and dignity that they deserve . the Bill and the amendment will also allow those on trial a proper consideration for rehabilitation and an opportunity to make amend and have a well life . I urge member to support clause 1 , to support amendment 36 and to support the Bill . it be a vital and crucial step forward for our court , our prison and our community , and for a fair justice system that work for all . government new clause 1 seek to strengthen the deportation framework by make it available to those give a suspend sentence . I urge the House to pause before we simply nod it through . it may be politically attractive to say that we be toughen deportation power , but in practice the change risk blur the distinction between the offender who pose a genuine threat to the public and those who do not . a suspend sentence be impose precisely where the court believe that immediate custody be not necessary for justice or public safety . to treat those individual like those who have serve time in prison lack logic and may well invite legal challenge . my concern be that we be legislate in haste , as see in today ' s Committee of the whole House , and layer new power on a system that already fail to use effectively those that it already have . instead of focus on headline - grab amendment , we should be fix the operational chaos in the Home Office that allow people to slip through the crack in the first place , as we have see in my constituency ; the notorious Wimbledon prowler have recently be release but not deport , despite the Home Office vow to deport he when he be send down in 2019 . what assessment have the Government make of the likely number of offender who will be deport under the expand definition , and how will the Home Office ensure that deportation decision make under the broad power remain compliant with article 8 right and do not clog up the court with appeal that could delay the removal of genuinely dangerous offender ? I be go to speak in favour of Government new clause 1 , but I first want to take the opportunity to mention the Conservatives party ' s record in government . a lot have be make during this debate about the prison that be build during the last government , so let we place it on record that , between 2010 and 2024 , there be a net addition of 482 prison place . if that be a record that the Conservatives be proud to stand on , I will happily give it to they . secondly , a lot have be say about lefty lawyer . I would like to draw to the Chamber ' s attention that , almost two year ago to the day , the then Conservative Lord Chancellor — presumably a well - know lefty lawyer — speak about suspend sentence . of reoffende rate , he say : " the fact be that more than 50 % of people who leave prison after serve less than 12 month go on to commit further crime … however , the figure for those who be on suspend sentence order with condition be 22 % . " — [ Official Report , 16 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 60 . ] it be important that we understand what we be talk about when we be talk about suspend sentence . that point be relevant to the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) as well . I do try to explain that there be a difference between association and causality . the hon . Member be compare two different cohort . if she be to match the cohort properly , the difference in reoffende rate be nothing like that ; it be more like 3 % or 4 % . I think the hon . Gentleman be make a correction to the former Lord Chancellor , because those be his word . I be sorry that the conservative party have move so far in two year that you wish to disown the work of a Lord Chancellor who stand in this Chamber just two year ago . Ms Minns , please — " you wish to disown " ? I be not contribute to the debate . I really do apologise , Ms Ghani . move on , I support new clause 1 . it would strengthen our approach to the deportation of foreign criminal by amend the definition of " period of imprisonment " in two key piece of legislation : the UK Borders Act 2007 and the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 . the amendment be about ensure that the law reflect the seriousness of the sentence hand down by the court , whether it be immediate or suspend . currently , a suspend sentence of 12 month or more do not count towards the definition of a foreign criminal for deportation purpose . this create a loophole that risk undermine confidence in our immigration and justice system . I have meet the Minister for Border Security and Asylum to discuss the deportation of foreign criminal with suspend sentence , and I very much welcome the closure of this loophole . it be not an abstract policy change ; it be a necessary correction to a real and press issue . new clause 1 ensure that suspend sentence of 12 month or more be treat with the gravity they deserve when consider deportation . it send a clear message that serious criminal behaviour will not be overlook simply because the sentence be suspend , and it strengthen our ability to protect community , uphold justice and maintain public confidence in our immigration system . let we be clear : a suspend sentence be still a sentence of imprisonment . it be impose by a judge who have determine that the offence be serious enough to warrant custody . the fact that the sentence be suspend do not diminish the gravity of the crime . do the hon . Lady not accept that most victim of crime would say that a suspend sentence be very much not a custodial sentence ? it be nevertheless a suspend sentence . by pass new clause 1 , we be say that serious offence — whether the sentence be serve behind bar or under condition in the community — carry consequence , include the possibility of removal from the UK . could the hon . Lady tell we why a judge would suspend the sentence ? I be not go to pretend to be an expert in the judiciary or the action of individual judge . nevertheless , it be important that we recognise that a suspend sentence and a sentence that place an individual in prison be both sentence of punishment . we be talk , in our discussion on new clause 1 , about how that relate to whether a foreign criminal should be remove from the country . the new clause be a targeted , proportionate and principled amendment . it do not expand the scope of deportation arbitrarily . it simply ensure that those who commit serious crime be not shield from deportation by technicality . I urge colleague from across the House to support it . the Gauke review be a thorough exercise carry out in good faith . it be intend to fix some of the problem that persist in the justice system , and be particularly aim at ease the burden on the prison estate . as a member of the Justice Committee , I have the opportunity to question the former Lord Chancellor and be strike by his thoughtfulness and expertise . despite that , I do have reservation about part of the Bill , particularly those around the early release of certain prisoner . amendment 24 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , seek to add an extra protection to the Bill to combat this . it would ensure that the most violent and dangerous offender — those guilty of crime like rape , grievous bodily harm , child sex abuse and cause death by dangerous driving — do not benefit from automatic sentence reduction . we all agree that rehabilitation have a place in our justice system , but that be not its only purpose . the public expect criminal to be punish for their wrongdoing and to be protect from those criminal cause future harm . I fear that Labour member do not know the consequence of the Bill , which be that violent and sexual offender will be release from prison early and will then go on to commit further criminal offence . we will have to deal with those consequence in the year to come if the Bill be pass unamended . those who commit the most serious crime should serve the full sentence hand down by our court . early release should never be a reward for those who have shatter life beyond repair . Ben and Amy Branson live in my constituency . in 2022 , their daughter Bethany be kill by a drunk driver who then flee the scene . when arrest shortly afterwards , he admit his guilt and say : " I hope I kill someone . oh well , you know what , I will get three , four , five year . hopefully I kill they . " this person have already receive a one - third discount on his sentence for plead guilty . can any Member of this House say that it would be just for his sentence to be reduce even far ? this amendment protect trust in justice . it ensure that victim and their family be not force to see their attacker walk free halfway through their sentence . it send a clear message : if you commit crime of sexual violence , if you abuse a child or if you cause grievous harm or death , you will face the consequence of your action . we owe that to victim , and we owe it to community , who need to know that the justice system be on their side . I also support new clause 9 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle , which would introduce a clear and practical duty to collect and publish sentencing datum , include information about nationality , visa route and asylum status , within 24 hour of sentencing . this measure be about transparency , accuracy and trust . at present , we simply do not have a full picture of who be commit offence in our country . without reliable datum , we can not make informed policy decision on border control , integration or criminal justice . collect this information will allow Parliament and the public to see whether our system for manage migration and visa be work as intend . it will also help to identify genuine issue and give the Government the evidence need to respond proportionately and effectively . we already collect detailed datum on age , gender and offence type . add nationality and immigration status be a logical next step . it will help policymaker target resource where they be most need , while maintain the fairness and integrity of our justice system . we have all see how quickly rumour spread online about the background or immigration status of offender in serious case . the good way to combat that be more transparency . this will protect the police and the wide system from accusation of complicity in cover - up . sunlight be the good disinfectant . both amendment I have speak in favour of today would serve to increase trust in the justice system . I encourage colleague from all party to consider what they can do to repair the confidence that have be damage in the last year . I would like to speak in favour of my new clause 2 , as well as new clause 18 and 22 . fourteen year of Tory austerity have leave prison in crisis . they be severely overcrowded and understaffed . there be significant challenge on the prison estate , include staffing shortage . HMP Liverpool expect to see a massive reduction in staffing due to the impact of the skilled worker visa scheme . prison be force to take emergency release measure to prevent a complete system breakdown . there be much to appreciate in this Bill , and more to wait for from the Law Commission ' s sentencing review , but I echo the concern raise : without sufficient resourcing and transparent , clear guidance , the ambition of the Bill risk fail . we know that over half of those serve a sentence of less than 12 month reoffend , and woman prisoner disproportionately receive short sentence . the link between short sentence and reoffende contribute greatly to the pressure on prison capacity . mental health treatment , alcohol and drug misuse treatment and other rehabilitative service bring wide social benefit and protect the public far well than the current system by tackle the cause of crime . the organisation JUSTICE have state that without proper resourcing , staffing and funding , rehabilitative service will remain too overstretched to be effective . in August 2025 , a shortfall of 10 , 000 Probation Service staff be record . the Bill ' s impact assessment estimate the need for an additional 500 probation staff each year . will the Minister reassure member that he understand the scale of the task ahead , and outline his commitment to allocate adequate resource to ensure that our frontline service can deliver the provision and vision of the Bill ? new clause 22 , table by the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , seek to provide leave to appeal where there have be change in the law that be material to the conviction , and where the application be serve before the conviction be spend . a version of the new clause be first move by the former MP for Huddersfield , my predecessor as chair of the all - party group for miscarriage of justice . it be write by Charlotte Henry , a formidable campaigner for Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association . I have long campaign against the abuse of joint enterprise legal doctrine , and I take this opportunity to recognise the fantastic work undertake by JENGbA over the past 15 year . the Justice Secretary previously provide commitment to JENGbA , and I hope that he will support new clause 22 today . my new clause 2 seek to provide oversight mechanism for electronic monitoring , which the Bill propose increase hugely . the plan be to create a prison outside a prison , but although that have potential to ease the overcrowding crisis on the estate , it could give rise to significant risk , without proper oversight and accountability . tagging play an important part in our criminal justice system , and if use correctly and ethically , it can help reduce crime and protect the public , while give victim confidence that justice be be serve . however , there be numerous problem , and those must be address before any further expansion , particularly the massive profit make by private sector company . we must analyse the purpose of tagging , from public protection to be a punishment in itself . the Bill expand power to ban offender from specific place or certain activity , even when those have no connection with the offence . that be one glare example of where tag technology risk lead to great unchecked restriction on our liberty . fail private - sector contract be at the heart of the problem , particularly those with Serco and G4S , now acquire by Allied Universal , which have a murky and well document history of over - charge and under - delivering , and which have be fine ten of million of pound as a result . I agree with the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee in the other place , which last year say it be " remarkable " that Serco and G4S have be reappointe to provide tagging service after they have " be investigate by the Serious Fraud Office and subject to fine for misconduct and a deferred prosecution agreement " . the issue be not only money ; we be give those company more and more control of sensitive and clearly transformational criminal justice technology . instead , we should use this decisive moment to bring tag firmly into the public sector Probation Service , as be common in the rest of Europe , and out of the hand of fail and fraudulent privateer . the Government have promise the big insourcing in a generation , and if they fail to insource these service , they should consider demand by the union to make the company that make and provide the tag also fit the tag , pre - release . that be in my new clause 2 ( 2 ) ( c ) . I remind member of the appalling case of Gaie Delap , a just stop Oil activist in her late 70 , who spend extra week in prison because Serco could not find a tag to fit she . the company make million from these contract should be sanction , so that they deliver service correctly . they should not be allow to rely on overstretch prison staff to pick up their work . will the Minister assure the House on that point ? the fragmented privatised system create huge delay and inefficiency , and provide financial challenge for the people whom it supervise , who , for example , have to charge tag without have access to electricity , or money to pay for it . I support new clause 18 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , which call for an annual report detail the use of tagging , and include information on the number of tag fit , the number of malfunctioning device , the rate of compliance and the cost of administrate the system . that important datum must be freely available if the public and union be to have any confidence in electronic monitoring . justice union and the frontline worker whom they represent be call for great oversight , accountability and transparency in monitor performance , and for any failure to be address immediately , not cover up by profit - hungry corporation . I join they in call on the Government to commit to a full review of the feasibility of all tagging be manage by the Probation Service in the future , in a system run for public good , not private profit . in keep with our promise to oversee the great wave of insource for a generation , now be the time for this Labour Government to bring this increasingly vital public service fully into the public sector , where it belong , so I ask hon . member to support my amendment . I congratulate the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) on his clear and comprehensive explanation of the flaw of short sentence . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who be no long in his place , give we some insight into why we have end up in such a mess : government modelling be not able to reconcile the removal of prison place with rule for increase sentence . the result be more demand for prison place . the net figure of 482 prison place gain since 2010 , give by the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , show the utterly damn mistake that be make during the Conservatives ' time in government . I will speak in favour of new clause 6 and 39 . in Christmas 2021 , Lillie Clack ' s family be wake by police , inform they that Lillie have be involve in a traffic accident on Christmas morning . it be cause by a driver under the influence , who be speed at up to 100 mph , and who fail to stop for the police . follow the accident , heroic local resident rush to the scene with fire extinguisher , but sadly Lillie die in hospital three day later . lillie ' s family have campaign tirelessly since then for Lillie ' s law , which would result in licence be suspend immediately upon a charge , and a lifetime ban from drive when driver be convict of cause death by dangerous driving or by careless driving . I speak in favour of new clause 6 , table by the hon . and gallant Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , which would apply the lifetime ban , and in favour of new clause 39 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , on the suspension of a person ' s drive licence while they be on bail for a driving - relate offence . together , those new clause would deliver the objective of Lillie ' s law and provide both punishment and deterrent for those who step into a car under the influence , or who do not take the care that be require when drive , which be a privilege , and not a right . I will speak briefly in favour of new clause 30 . I encourage hon . member from across the House to support the long - overdue resentencing of all prisoner currently hold under a sentence of imprisonment for public protection . at the end of 2024 , more than 2 , 000 people be hold under an IPP , which be an ongoing scandal and a tragedy for those individual . the Government claim that the jail term be a grave injustice , but they be fail to move quickly enough . this new clause would force they to act . as the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) so clearly explain , there be a need for action , so I hope his colleague can be persuade to support new clause 30 , in the absence of another measure to address the issue , which be badly require . finally , I will mention new clause 40 , on the provision of training during the period when an individual be on remand . we must enable rehabilitation wherever possible . even if the new clause be not take forward today , I join colleague and the hon . member for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) in encourage the Government to look at the current situation . justice must be capable of learn from its mistake . when the law evolve , it must reach back for those leave behind . that be the principle behind new clause 22 and 23 , which I table . the new clause would create a fair route for people still serve sentence under law that have since be abolish or where the legal basis have materially change . they would allow court to review such case so that punishment reflect the law as it stand today , not as it stand decade ago . at present , there be no clear mechanism for that to happen . even when Parliament or the court have recognise that a law be wrong , those affect have no way to benefit . our system can acknowledge injustice , but it can not yet fix it . we see that most clearly in the case of Alex Henry , whose sister be my constituent . she have campaign tirelessly on this issue , and she and Alex ' s mum be in the Gallery today . some 11 year ago , Alex be convict of murder after a 40 - second altercation . he do not wield the weapon ; he throw a phone and one punch , then run . he be convict under the now discredit doctrine of joint enterprise , which allow jury to convict if a defendant merely foresaw what someone else might do . two year later , the Supreme Court rule that that interpretation have be wrong for more than 30 year . foresight be not enough for guilt — intent must be present — yet Alex remain in prison , serve a life sentence with a minimum term of 19 year for a crime that he would not have be convict of under today ' s law . Alex ' s mother , Sally , be a constituent of mine in Esher and Walton . she share Alex ' s story in one of my surgery , so I be very pleased that his story be be consider today in Parliament . the new clause put forward by my hon . friend will help to ensure that people such as Alex have a route to justice . Sally be battle on behalf of her son against a law that be obsolete . all of we can only imagine how heartbreaking and frustrating that be and the unfairness of what my hon . friend have describe . I urge member across the Committee to support the new clause so that there be a course to justice . this be indeed a highly significant issue , which be why I have put forward the new clause . since his conviction , Alex have be diagnose with autism , a condition that fundamentally affect how he perceive and react to social situation . that diagnosis raise serious question about whether it be even fair to suggest that he could have foresee a friend ' s violent act , let alone intend it . Alex ' s story be not unique . many other — overwhelmingly young man , disproportionately from minority ethnic background — remain imprison under a doctrine that our high court have disown . I recognise today Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association — JENGbA — whose member have work tirelessly for more than a decade to support family and campaign for reform . many of they , and the family of those affect , be also here in the Gallery . I place on record my gratitude for their courage and persistence in seek justice . I also thank the hon . member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) for her support this afternoon . new clause 22 would allow people still serve sentence under law that have materially change to apply for a review . it would give court discretion to resentence in line with the law as it now stand or to make any other order necessary in the interest of justice . this be not about reopen every case or grant automatic release ; it be about restore fairness . new clause 23 would complement that by require the Secretary of State for Justice to review and report to Parliament on how change in criminal law affect exist conviction and sentence . it would ensure that when the law evolve , we look back and ask what the change mean for the people already affect . this be not just a moral necessity , but a practical one . we face a severe crisis in our prison , which be overcrowded , understaffed and at break point . it make no sense to fill cell with people serve sentence under law that no long reflect justice , while those who genuinely threaten public safety wait for space . we need prison place for those who be truly dangerous , not for those who be simply in the wrong place at the wrong time under the wrong law . the Secretary of State for Justice have long recognise the injustice of joint enterprise . in 2021 , he call it " shoddy law " , " outdated " and " backward " , and pledge to change it . family across the country , include many in the Gallery , remember that promise ; today ' s Bill give the Secretary of State and the Government the chance to make good on it . the new clause provide a practical , proportionate and fair way to ensure that our justice system can correct itself when the law get it wrong . as such , my ask today be for the Secretary of State and the Government to champion these clause from the Government Benches . work with I and campaigner to refine the detail if need , but do not let the principle fall away , because the strength of our justice system lie not in its perfection , but in its capacity to put right its own mistake . for Alex Henry , for the family in the Gallery today , and for everyone who be still serve a sentence under a law that our court have already reject , I urge all member on both side of the Committee and the Government to support new clause 22 and 23 . I begin by thank all those who have contribute to this important debate about sentencing policy and the future of our criminal justice system . before I turn to the specific of various amendment , there be two overarching principle that inform this piece of legislation and the Government ' s position today . the first be the legacy that this Government inherit from the conservative party , with prison at break point , the risk that the most serious offender would avoid arrest or custody altogether , and the need for emergency action to release offender early to avoid the prison system collapse . that be the conclusion of 14 year of Tory failure . alongside the large prison building programme since the victorian era , this Sentencing Bill fix that mess — under this government , never again . secondly , while we stabilise the system that be so shamefully vandalise by the previous Tory Government , we can build a well justice system — one that protect the public and reduce reoffende . this government will prioritise punishment , but punishment that work , not the broken system we have today . that be why we be introduce important measure on short custodial sentence , which robust evidence show will reduce offending , save the taxpayer money and assist with the prison capacity crisis . fix the mess we inherit and build a more robust and effective justice system be at the heart of today ' s Bill . I turn to the amendment table by the official Opposition and the shadow Justice team . I be simply aghast at the chutzpah of the Conservative party on justice issue . the piece of legislation we be consider be only before the Committee today because of the mess that the Tories leave behind . whereas they turn their back on the mount crisis , this Government will not shrink from the challenge we face , however difficult they may be . amendment 24 would undermine a central purpose of the legislation , which be to solve the Tory prison capacity crisis . let I be absolutely clear : what victim of crime and our community fear the most be the situation the Tories leave behind , in which criminal — murderer , rapist and child abuser — might not face prison at all because the Tories leave our system teeter on the brink , without the capacity to lock up even the most serious offender . we will not apologise for the measure in this Bill that clear up their mess . the inspiration for the change that the Tories oppose be the earn progression model from Texas , where crime have be slash by improve rehabilitation and cut reoffende . tackle reoffende and boost effort to rehabilitate offender use to be conservative policy ; indeed , the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who be not in his normal place , use to believe in rehabilitation and initiative to cut reoffende . eight year ago , when I think he be still a one - nation Cameroon , he argue that " the statutory definition of the purpose of a prison " should " include rehabilitation and reform " . — [ Official Report , 19 July 2017 ; Vol . 627 , c . 850 . ] now he oppose every single measure in this Bill that further that cause . he be a moderate ; now , he be a pound - shop populist . one wonder whether he believe in anything other than his campaign to become Leader of the opposition — simply not serious , Madam Chair . the Minister have describe what be in the Bill as an earn progression model . I have read out to the Committee the independent Library briefing note , which say that progression will not be earn ; it will be automatic . on what basis be the Minister continue to describe it as an earn model ? within the Sentencing Bill and primary legislation be specific punishment for offender who do not play by the rule while they be in prison . that will affect the earn progression model . further detail about exactly how one can gain credit will be deliver in due course . the Opposition and the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) have table amendment to the provision on the Sentencing Council with the aim of abolish the council , and the Tory amendment would transfer its function to the Secretary of State for Justice . that would amount to constitutional vandalism — it be an attempt to undermine the independence of the judiciary . the Sentencing Council hold a pivotal role as a bridge between Parliament and the judiciary . the council be widely acknowledge to have bring great consistency to the sentencing process . even before the council ' s creation , it be not for the Justice Secretary or Lord Chancellor to fulfil the function of create these guideline . it be right that the council be hold to account by Parliament , but it would be offensive to the principle of the separation of power to dissolve the council entirely . this be a classic case of the populist go too far and not reaffirm the sovereignty of this place , as clause 18 and 19 successfully achieve , but trash constitutional norm for media headline . I urge the Committee to reject such performative politic . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , table new clause 12 on the unduly lenient sentence scheme , on which the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) make a powerful speech . while the Government understand that the 28 - day time limit can be difficult for victim and their family , it be important that there be finality in sentencing and that we avoid ongoing uncertainty about the sentence to be serve . the Law Commission be undertake a review of criminal appeal and hold a public consultation inviting view on a range of reform to the unduly lenient sentence scheme , include extend the time limit . we will wait for the Law Commission ' s response before respond . I have hear the point that member have make about communication , and over the come week I will look at change we can make to process and function within the Ministry of Justice to improve the system . I shall move on to short sentence and the amendment table by the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) . I want to be clear about this , because her speech simply do not accept the reality . clause 1 do not ban short custodial sentence . at the end of this Parliament there will be more offender in jail than there have ever be before . that be not be soft on crime . there be an important exemption in the legislation for case where there be a significant risk of harm to a particular individual , whether psychological or physical . it will always be up to the court to decide how to apply the presumption in any give case . the right hon . Lady ' s amendment to widen the scope of the exemption or to eat away at the 12 - month definition of a short sentence would render the provision meaningless . it be not the right direction . the provision also include an exemption for a breach of a court order . we have strengthen that far with Government amendment 2 and 4 , which clarify that it include repeat offender who commit a further offence while on a suspend sentence . government amendment 3 and 5 far expand the scope of the exemption so that it apply where an offence have be commit in circumstance that be closely connect to the breach of a court order , even where the breach be not in and of itself a criminal offence . together , those amendment ensure that repeat offender will not benefit from the presumption when they be already subject to a court order . where we can do so safely , we should be move away from short - term sentence . put people in prison for a few week cost the taxpayer huge amount and lead to far reoffende . we know that reoffende rate among those serve short - term sentence be scandalously high . rigorous research show that equivalent sentence in the community will tackle reoffende , prevent thousand of crime each year . indeed , the rigorous research , which the shadow Minister cite , show that these measure will cut crime be commission by the last Conservative Government . they even put this precise provision — copy and paste — in legislation that they introduce prior to the election , but it never come before Parliament . the Conservatives know it be the right thing to do , but now they oppose it for opposition ' s sake . it be a good example of how far they have fall . they be simply not serious . I will not be able to speak to all the various amendment table by the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , as I be sure he will appreciate . I meet he early this week , and I will no doubt meet he and member of the Committee in the week ahead . I be grateful to he and his Committee for their work . new clause 19 address the important issue of the imprisonment for public protection sentence . it be right that the IPP sentence be abolish , and the Government be determined to support those in prison to progress towards a safe and sustainable release , but not in a way that undermine public protection . change we have implement through the IPP action plan have contribute to a fall of around 14 % in the number of unreleased IPP prisoner between June 2024 and June 2025 . I recognise the Chair ' s desire to see the previous Justice Committee ' s recommendation on resentencing implement , but despite its detailed consideration of the issue , the Committee , like various other organisation , be unable to identify an approach to resentence that would not involve release offender whom the Parole Board have determine pose too great a risk to the public . the Chair of the Committee have put forward other amendment to the IPP scheme relate to the review of licence condition . the Government will look into that over the come day and week and no doubt have conversation with he . let I say a little about new clause 18 , which deal with tagging , an issue that be also raise by the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) . the Government agree that it be important to report on key metric relate to electronic monitoring , which be why the Ministry of Justice publish statistical report on the use of electronic monitoring in England and Wales both quarterly and annually . our next annual report , which we expect to be publish next summer , will include detail on key performance indicator that the Department use to hold the electronic monitoring provider to account . as the hon . Gentleman will know , owe to commercial sensitivity I be unable to specify the fine that have be enforce on those private company relate to the tagging system , but we will continue to hold their foot to the fire , which I hope will reassure he . I understand and sympathise with the aim of amendment 22 and 23 and new clause 5 , which I discuss yesterday with my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) — who make a characteristically powerful speech — and other . as one who spend many year represent victim of domestic violence in court before enter this place , I know full well the importance of rigorous risk assessment in such case . however , the Government believe that the current measure be sufficient : a long recall period to ensure that assessment be full and protective measure can be take ; and the domestic abuse identifi , a key reform that will well enable safeguard service to remain alert to threat pose by perpetrator . it have be great to work with Ministers at the Ministry of Justice and to help drive that identifier forward . will the Minister join I in celebrate the incredible bravery of ITV ' s " Loose Women " , many of whom , through their " face it together " campaign , have speak out about their experience of domestic abuse , and will he , or a fellow Minister from the MOJ , come and meet they next Wednesday from 12 . 30 pm onwards , in the Attlee Suite , where I shall be host they and we will be bring the " face it together " campaign to Parliament ? I be always happy to pay tribute to the brilliant " Loose Women " , and , diary permit , I will be there at 12 . 30 pm with the hon . Gentleman . their campaign have be serious and have have a real effect , and we be very grateful to they . offender who pose a great risk be already exclude from the measure in the Bill , include those recall on account of be charge with a further offence — such as , importantly , an offence relate to a breach of a civil domestic violence protection order — and those subject to multi - agency supervision level 2 and 3 , which apply to many sexual violence and domestic abuse offender . these offender can only receive a standard recall . new clause 36 , table by the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , build on the work of the hon . member for Eastbourne . it would require the court to treat any offence involve domestic abuse as aggravate . again , I recognise and sympathise with the intent behind the new clause , but domestic abuse be already treat as an aggravating factor in sentencing through the guideline that make it clear that judge should consider domestic abuse as increase the seriousness of an offence , allow for tough sentence where appropriate . we believe that any change might complicate the sentencing framework unnecessarily , without any real practical benefit . let I now deal with the issue of drive offence . we have hear many powerful speech , include one from the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , who also make a powerful speech on Second Reading . he be not currently in the Chamber — oh , he be here , but he have change , and be look very dapper . I have have a brief conversation with he about some of his proposal . while we do not support the mandatory ban for careless and dangerous driving that result in death , I be determined to look at it , along with my colleague at the Department for Transport . I be shock by some of the statistic that the hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) produce on Second Reading , and in meeting that I have have with they since then . I want to get into the detail , but there be certainly more that we can do , and I know that other member have raise important case in this connection . I will be look at measure that we can take to strengthen driving ban , on an interim and permanent basis , for the most reckless offender . again , I praise all the member who have make such powerful speech today , some of they on behalf of constituent who have suffer significant tragedy . new clause 28 and 29 be table by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) . I have meet she twice to discuss the new clause and the policy aim that sit behind they . I commend she for table they , raise the importance of tackle the hidden harm of problematic gambling , and for her ongoing collaboration on this topic . let I briefly explain the way in which we already identify and support those with gambling issue , and how we be seek to increase the support that we provide . pre - sentencing report help the court to identify underlie issue such as harmful gambling , mental health problem and addiction , which may influence offend behaviour . mental health condition and addiction can be take into account at sentencing , and court be encourage to take an individualised approach , particularly when the condition contribute to the offending . where individual demonstrate a commitment to address those issue , court may consider community sentence treatment requirement , and in particular mental health treatment requirement , as part of a community or suspend sentence order . this can be undertake only with the consent of the individual , and new clause 28 as draft by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South provide for the treatment to be mandatory , which be an issue . as I have discuss with she , there be the issue of the scale of demand and the current lack of any reliable datum on how this would look in the criminal justice system . that be why I have already commit to work with colleague at the Department of Health and Social Care — indeed , I have be in correspondence with they just this week — to ensure that the Ministry of Justice be involve in the develop work on gambling addiction treatment and use of the statutory levy that be lead by the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . I will briefly deal with new clause 25 , table by the hon . member for Clacton , who do not bother to turn up for any of the debate . his new clause would introduce automatic deportation for foreign national who be give sentence of at least six month . although the state would be force to seek the deportation of an individual in such circumstance , that individual would clearly have cause for challenge — not just on echr ground but , in particular , on the ground of judicial review and proportionality , which have be a long - hold principle of common law in this country for hundred of year . let I be clear : this Government be urgently remove foreign national offender , with removal up by 14 % since we come into office . through Government new clause 1 , we be extend the Home Secretary ' s duty to deport under the UK Borders Act 2007 to foreign national who be give a suspend sentence of at least 12 month . uphold our value and keep our nation safe be a priority , and new clause 1 send a clear message . regardless of whether a court choose to impose an immediate custodial sentence or pass a suspend sentence , if the sentence be for a period of at least 12 month , it be sufficiently serious to merit automatic deportation . new clause 25 , table by Reform , would make a mockery of our effort more generally , put scant resource into needless litigation and often unnecessary deportation — another reform policy that crash and burn on contact with reality . I will briefly speak about new clause 27 and the powerful story tell by my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Emma Lewell ) about her constituent Sophie . it be an issue that first come across my desk as part of preparation for Committee . although the Government be absolutely determined to deport foreign offender for serious offence , the risk assessment in her new clause may inhibit the Government ' s effort in that regard . this be something that I will look at very closely in the come week , and I hope that I can have a meeting with my hon . friend to discuss the detail and how we can make it work . I want to raise briefly the campaign by my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) on tool theft , which have be such an important part of the reform to the sentencing and criminal justice policy . her effort have be successful . today ' s debate , which have last nearly four hour , show that the dividing line in british politic be increasingly clear : it be between those who recognise the tough choice face our country and be willing to make they in order to clean up the mess leave behind by the last Tory Government , and the unserious , populist opposition carping from the sideline . I be sure the Minister will hope that Back Benchers have listen closely to what he have say , but more important be what he have not say . the Government have be brief journalist that what we be say about rapist and paedophile get out early be not true , and they have tell the same to a number of Labour Back Benchers . to be clear , can the Minister put on the record whether any rapist or paedophile serve standard determinate sentence will be release early as a result of this Bill — yes or no ? as the hon . Gentleman know , sentence decision be for the judiciary . every single offence in his amendment 24 can be give an extended determinate sentence . as I have say before — I will say it again — what victim of crime fear the most be the situation that this Government inherit , in which we be run out of prison place and the most serious offender might not have face prison at all . bizarrely , the shadow Justice Minister say early in the debate , " if I have be Prime Minister or Chancellor , this wouldn ' t have happen . " well , you be not , I be afraid . a lot of you lot have a go at be Chancellor or Prime Minister , and none of you do a good job . order . " you lot " and " you " be address to I . Madam Chair , I do not think that you be Prime Minister or Chancellor . I do apologise . the Tory legacy in our prison be lawless disorder , with not enough prison place to arrest or lock up even the most serious offender . the Conservatives ' howl opposition today ring hollow in the context of their disastrous legacy . this Government have take action to fix the mess by deliver 2 , 500 prison place in the first year , compare with 500 over 14 year of conservative misrule . but we can not simply build our way out of this crisis ; it require long - term reform for a more sustainable system . this Bill ensure that we will never again face the impossible situation that we face last summer , but it go far : it mean we will cut reoffende rate , and we will build prison that produce well citizen , not well criminal . this Bill will help keep our street and community safe . I thank all those who have contribute to the debate . I be deeply dismay by what the Minister have to say . this Bill will make the street of our country less safe . it will both let thousand of criminal out of prison and stop thousand of criminal go to prison . it will have a devastating impact on society . if the Minister be honest and be be truthful about this be an emergency — [ interruption . ] I apologise — not " truthful " . if he be be accurate , and the reason really be that there be an emergency because of a lack of prison place , why have he not accept my new clause 62 ? that sunset clause would allow two year for three further prison , initiate by the Conservative Government , to come on line . he have not do so because , as I think we have reveal or expose , this Government be soft on crime , and they be on the side of the criminal , not the victim . shocking ! " shocking " actually be the word for this Bill . as the Minister do not offer any way forward and have not agree to a sunset clause , I will push my amendment 46 to a vote . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew David Reed Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Liz Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Mark Ferguson Taiwo Owatemi the Committee divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 381 . question accordingly negative . amendment make : 2 , page 2 , line 46 , at end insert — " ( ea ) the offence , or an associated offence , be commit while the offender be subject to a supervision order , " this amendment make clear that the presumption to suspend certain sentence under section 264a of the Sentencing Code ( insert by this clause ) do not apply to offence ( or offence associate with those offence ) commit while the offender be subject to a supervision order ( as define by subsection ( 7 ) of that section ) . amendment 3 , page 3 , line 2 , after " constitute " insert " , or occur in circumstance closely connect with , " . this amendment provide that the presumption to suspend certain sentence under section 264a of the Sentencing Code ( insert by this clause ) do not apply to offence ( or offence associate with those offence ) commit in circumstance which be closely connect with the breach by the offender of a court order or an order or award in proceeding in respect of a service offence . amendment 4 , page 5 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( ea ) the offence , or an associated offence , be commit while the offender be subject to a supervision order , " . this amendment make clear that the presumption to suspend certain sentence under section 277a of the Sentencing Code ( insert by this clause ) do not apply to offence ( or offence associate with those offence ) commit while the offender be subject to a supervision order ( as define by subsection ( 8 ) of that section ) . amendment 5 , page 5 , line 9 , after " constitute " insert " , or occur in circumstance closely connect with , " . — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment provide that the presumption to suspend certain sentence under section 277a of the Sentencing Code ( insert by this clause ) do not apply to offence ( or offence associate with those offence ) commit in circumstance which be closely connect with the breach by the offender of a court order or an order or award in proceeding in respect of a service offence . question put , that the clause , as amend , stand part of the Bill . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Liz Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Mark Ferguson Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood David Reed Jerome Mayhew the Committee divide : Ayes 389 , Noes 102 . question accordingly agree to . clause 1 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 to 5 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 6 - finding of domestic abuse Amendments make : 6 , page 14 , line 31 , leave out " or officer " . this amendment and amendment 9 would correct draft error in new section 56a of the Sentencing Code and new section 253A of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , namely that the reference to an officer should appear in section 253a ( 1 ) ( b ) and not in section 56a ( 1 ) ( b ) . amendment 7 , page 14 , line 32 , after " abuse " insert " carry out by the offender " . this amendment and amendment 8 would make it clear that in make a finding of domestic abuse when pass sentence for an offence , the court be concern only with the conduct of the offender . amendment 8 , page 14 , line 34 , after " abuse " insert " carry out by the offender " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 7 . amendment 9 , page 15 , line 11 , after " court " insert " or officer " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 6 . amendment 10 , page 15 , line 12 , after " abuse " insert " carry out by the offender " . this amendment and amendment 11 would make it clear that in make a finding of domestic abuse when pass sentence for an offence , the court or officer be concern only with the conduct of the offender . amendment 11 , page 15 , line 14 , after " abuse " insert " carry out by the offender " . — ( Jake Richards . ) see the explanatory statement for amendment 10 . clause 6 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 7 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 8 - sentence with fix licence period : Scotland Amendment make : 12 , page 22 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 12 ) Part 1 of Schedule ( sentence with fix licence period in Scotland or Northern Ireland : consequential provision ) make consequential provision . " — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment introduce the consequential amendment of sentencing legislation that apply in Scotland make by the schedule insert by NS1 . clause 8 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 9 - sentence with fix licence period : Northern Ireland Amendment make : 13 , page 25 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) Part 2 of schedule ( sentence with fix licence period in Scotland or Northern Ireland : consequential provision ) make consequential provision . " — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment introduce the consequential amendment of sentencing legislation that apply in Northern Ireland make by the schedule insert by NS1 . clause 9 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 10 to 12 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 13 - drive prohibition requirement Amendments make : 14 , page 26 , line 26 , leave out " as follow " and insert " in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 15 . amendment 15 , page 28 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) in section 177h of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( availability of drive disqualification order ) , at the end insert " ( include where the court make a service community order , an overseas community order or a suspend sentence order which impose a drive prohibition requirement ) . " — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment would clarify that a service court may make a drive disqualification order in a case where it make a service community order , an overseas community order or a suspend sentence order which impose a drive prohibition requirement . clause 13 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 14 and 15 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 16 - Restriction zone requirement Amendments make : 16 , page 31 , line 31 , leave out " as follow " and insert " in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 12 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 17 . amendment 17 , page 34 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 13 ) the Armed Forces Act 2006 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) . ( 14 ) in section 182 ( 3 ) ( c ) ( application of section 208 ( 2 ) of , and Schedule 9 to , the Sentencing Code to overseas community order ) , after sub - paragraph ( ix ) , and on a new line , insert " ( see also the modification to paragraph 8D of Schedule 9 make by section 183 ( 5A ) of this Act ) ; " . ( 15 ) in section 183 ( modification of the Sentencing Code in relation to overseas community order ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " ( 5 ) " substitute " ( 5A ) " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5a ) paragraph 8d of schedule 9 ( restriction zone requirement ) have effect as if sub - paragraph ( 6 ) be omit . " " — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment would have the effect that an overseas community order make by a service court which impose a restriction zone requirement be not require to include an electronic monitoring requirement . clause 16 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 17 to 19 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 20 - Release Amendment propose : 24 , page 37 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( ab ) but section 244ZA ( 8 ) ( a ) and ( aa ) do not apply to any person convict of — ( a ) rape ; ( b ) assault by penetration ; ( c ) rape of a child under 13 ; ( d ) assault of a child under 13 by penetration ; ( e ) incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ; ( f ) pay for the sexual service of a child age under 13 ; ( g ) kidnapping or false imprisonment with the intention of commit a sexual offence ; ( h ) create or possess indecent photograph of child ; ( i ) grievous bodily harm ; ( j ) grooming ; ( k ) stalking ; ( l ) cause or allow the death of a vulnerable child or adult ; or ( m ) death by dangerous driving , and ( ac ) but section 244ZA ( 8 ) ( a ) and ( aa ) can not come into force until the Secretary of State have consult on and ensure exclusion for all offence consider to be serious violence , offence against child , sexual offence and domestic abuse offence , and " . — ( Dr Mullan . ) this amendment would disapply the clause 20 early release provision of the Bill in relation to those convict of the offence list in the amendment , and would require the Secretary of State to consult on and ensure exclusion for those convict of other serious violent and sexual offence category . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Kate Osborne Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Reed Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Mark Ferguson the Committee divide : Ayes 182 , Noes 307 . question accordingly negative . clause 20 to 41 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 42 disagree to . clause 43 and 44 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 45 - Extent Amendment make : 19 , page 75 , line 17 , leave out paragraph ( d ) . — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment have the effect that an amendment or repeal make by the new clause insert by NC1 will have the same extent as the provision amend or repeal . clause 45 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 46 - Commencement Amendment make : 20 , page 76 , line 9 , leave out " schedule 1 " and insert " Schedules 1 and ( sentence with fix licence period in Scotland or Northern Ireland : consequential provision ) " . — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment be consequential on NS1 . clause 46 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . clause 47 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - deportation of Foreign Criminals " ( 1 ) in section 38 ( 1 ) of the UK Borders Act 2007 ( meaning of " period of imprisonment " for purpose of condition 1 in definition of " foreign criminal " ) , omit paragraph ( a ) . ( 2 ) in section 117d ( 4 ) of the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ( meaning of " period of imprisonment " for purpose of definition of " foreign criminal " ) , omit paragraph ( a ) . " — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment insert a new clause which provide that for the purpose of certain legislation relate to the deportation of foreign criminal and the application of Article 8 of the ECHR a sentence of imprisonment include a suspend sentence order . this new clause be intend to substitute exist clause 42 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 6 - lifetime driving ban for death by dangerous or careless driving and related offence " ( 1 ) this section apply where a person be convict of an offence under section 1 , 2B , 3zb , 3zc or 3A of the Road Traffic Act 1988 . ( 2 ) where this section apply , notwithstanding the provision of chapter 1 of Part 8 of the Sentencing Code ( drive disqualification ) , the driver must be ban from drive for life . " — ( Ben Obese - Jecty . ) this new clause would mean that anyone who cause death by dangerous or careless driving ( or relate offence ) would be ban from drive for life . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Reed Jerome Mayhew Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Mark Ferguson Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 313 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 9 - duty to collect and publish datum on sentencing " ( 1 ) within 24 hour of the conclusion of the passing of a sentence , the relevant court must provide HM Courts and Tribunals Service ( ' hmct ' ) with information regard — ( a ) the offence category ; ( b ) the sentence length ; and ( c ) such information about the sentence individual as the Secretary of State may specify in regulation , but which must include — ( i ) nationality , ( ii ) sex at birth , ( iii ) country of birth , ( iv ) method of entry to the United Kingdom , ( v ) visa route , ( vi ) visa status , and ( vii ) asylum status . ( 2 ) hmct must collect and record the information set out in subsection ( 1 ) in a safe and secure manner . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish statistic on the information set out in subsection ( 1 ) no less than once every three month . " — ( Dr Mullan . ) this new clause would require HMCTS to collect datum and other information on sentencing and sentence offender , and would require the Government to publish statistic on that datum every three month . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew David Reed Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Mark Ferguson the Committee divide : Ayes 104 , Noes 317 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 16 September ) . the Chair put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order No . 83d ) . New Clause 30 - re - sentence those serve a sentence of imprisonment for public protection ' ( 1 ) the Lord Chancellor must make arrangement for , and relate to , the re - sentencing of all prisoner serve IPP sentence within 18 month begin on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 2 ) those arrangement must include arrangement relate to the establishment of a committee to provide advice regard the discharge of the Lord Chancellor ' s duty under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the committee establish by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) must include a judge nominate by the Lord Chief Justice . ( 4 ) a court that impose an IPP sentence have the power to re - sentence the prisoner in relation to the original offence . ( 5 ) but the court may not impose a sentence that be a heavy penalty than the sentence that be impose for the original offence . ( 6 ) in relation to the exercise of the power in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) that power be to be treat as a power to re - sentence under the Sentencing Code ( see section 402 ( 1 ) of the Sentencing Act 2020 ) ; ( b ) the Code apply for the purpose of this section ( and , accordingly , it do not matter that a person serve an IPP sentence be convict of an offence before 1 December 2020 ) . ( 7 ) in this section — " ipp sentence " mean a sentence of imprisonment or detention in a young offender institution for public protection under section 225 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 or a sentence of detention for public protection under section 226 of that Act ( include such a sentence of imprisonment or detention pass as a result of section 219 or 221 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ) ; " original offence " mean the offence in relation to which the IPP sentence be impose . ( 8 ) this section come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ' — ( Jess Brown - Fuller . ) this new clause would implement the recommendation of the Justice Committee ' s 2022 report that there should be a resentencing exercise in relation to all IPP sentence individual , and to establish a time - limit expert committee , include a member of the judiciary , to advise on the practical implementation of such an exercise . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Natasha Irons Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Z ö e Franklin Susan Murray Jack Abbott Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Scott Arthur James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Gareth Bacon Calvin Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Steve Barclay Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Hilary Benn Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sarah Bool Jade Botterill Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn James Cartlidge Luke Charters Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Deirdre Costigan Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Gareth Davies Jonathan davy mim davy Paul davy Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Charlie Dewhirst Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Graeme Downie Iain Duncan Smith Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis George Freeman Louie French James Frith Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Roger Gale Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Gill german Becky Gittins John Glen Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Laura Kyrke - Smith Katie Lam Peter Lamb David Lammy John Lamont Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Edward Leigh Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Esther McVey Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Abtisam Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Perran Moon Robbie Moore Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Jesse Norman Dan Norris Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Shivani Raja Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Jack Rankin Angela Rayner Mike Reader David Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Dave Robertson Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons John Slinger Cat Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Andrew Snowden Alex Sobel Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Bradley Thomas Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Matt Vickers Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Helen Whately Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White John Whittingdale James Wild David Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Mark Ferguson the Committee divide : Ayes 77 , Noes 390 . question accordingly negative . schedule 1 to 4 agree to . new Schedule 1 - sentence with fix licence period in Scotland or Northern Ireland : consequential provision " Part 1 - Scotland Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 1 in section 5 ( 1 ) ( da ) of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 as it form part of the law of Scotland ( disclosure period for particular sentence ) , for " ( terrorism sentence for young offender or child ) " substitute " ( sentence with fix licence period for young offender or child ) " . prison ( Scotland ) Act 1989 2 in section 39 ( 7b ) ( a ) of the Prisons ( Scotland ) Act 1989 ( rule for the management of prison and other institution ) , after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " . prisoner and Criminal Proceedings ( Scotland ) Act 1993 3 ( 1 ) the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings ( Scotland ) Act 1993 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 1 ( 9 ) ( release of short - term , long - term and life prisoner ) — ( a ) the word from " in respect of an offence " to the end of the subsection become paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) at the end of that paragraph insert " , or ( b ) under section 205ZC of the 1995 Act in respect of an offence list in Part 2 of schedule 5zb to that Act ( offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) . " ( 3 ) in section 1ab ( restrict eligibility for release on licence of terrorist prisoner ) — ( a ) in the heading , at the end insert " and other prisoner serve a sentence impose under section 205ZC of the 1995 Act " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 2A ) insert — " ( 2b ) this section also apply to a prisoner other than a life prisoner who be serve a sentence of imprisonment impose under section 205ZC of the 1995 Act in respect of an offence list in Part 2 of schedule 5zb to that Act ( offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " case of a terrorist prisoner " substitute " prisoner ' s case " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , omit " terrorist " . ( 4 ) in section 1b ( prisoner serve consecutive sentence include at least one terrorism sentence ) — ( a ) in the heading , after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for paragraph ( b ) ( but not the " and " at the end of that paragraph ) substitute — " ( b ) one or more of the sentence ( the " terrorism or national security - relate sentence " ) be impose — ( i ) in respect of an offence within section 1ab ( 2 ) , or ( ii ) under section 205ZC of the 1995 Act in respect of an offence list in Part 2 of schedule 5zb to that Act ( offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) , " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( i ) after " terrorism " , in both place it occur , insert " or national security - relate " ; ( ii ) for " impose in respect of an offence that be not within section 1ab ( 2 ) ( a " non - terrorism sentence " ) , " substitute " that be not a terrorism or national security - relate sentence , " ; ( iii ) for " the non - terrorism " substitute " that other " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " ; ( ii ) for " non - terrorism " substitute " other " ; ( e ) in subsection ( 4 ) to ( 7 ) , ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) and ( 13 ) — ( i ) after " terrorism " , in each place it occur , insert " or national security - relate " ; ( ii ) for " non - terrorism " , in each place it occur , substitute " sentence that be not a terrorism or national security - relate " . ( 5 ) in section 2 ( duty to release discretionary life prisoner ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 6 ) , after " ( 6b ) " insert " , ( 6c ) " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 6B ) insert — " ( 6c ) no requirement may be make under subsection ( 6 ) by a life prisoner who be also serve or liable to serve a sentence of imprisonment impose under section 205ZC of the 1995 Act in respect of an offence list in Part 2 of schedule 5zb to that Act ( offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) before the day on which the Scottish Ministers be require to refer the prisoner ' s case to the Parole Board under section 1ab ( 3 ) . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 7 ) , after " ( 6b ) " insert " or ( 6c ) " . ( 6 ) in section 3a ( re - release of prisoner serve certain terrorism sentence and extended sentence ) — ( a ) in the heading , for " certain terrorism sentence " substitute " serious terrorism sentence , sentence with a fix licence period " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1za ) ( b ) , omit " terrorism " . ( 7 ) in section 3c ( 6 ) ( prisoner not to be release early by virtue of regulation under section 3c ) — ( a ) after paragraph ( c ) insert — " ( can ) serve a sentence of imprisonment impose under section 205ZC of the 1995 Act in respect of an offence list in Part 2 of schedule 5zb to that Act ( offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) ; " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( d ) , after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " . ( 8 ) in the italic cross head before section 26za , after " terrorism " insert " and national security - relate " . ( 9 ) in section 26za ( terrorism sentence ) — ( a ) in the heading , after " terrorism " insert " and national security - relate " ; ( b ) for subsection ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this section apply to a person ( " the prisoner " ) who — ( a ) be not a life prisoner , and ( b ) be serve a terrorism or national security - relate sentence . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) , omit " terrorism " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after " terrorism " , in both place it occur , insert " or national security - relate " ; ( e ) in subsection ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , for " a terrorist " substitute " the " ; ( f ) in subsection ( 7 ) — ( i ) for " a terrorist " substitute " the " ; ( ii ) after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " ; ( g ) in subsection ( 8 ) ( b ) , omit " terrorism " ; ( h ) in subsection ( 9 ) — ( i ) for " a terrorist " substitute " the " ; ( ii ) after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " ; ( i ) in subsection ( 10 ) , after " terrorism " , in both place it occur , insert " or national security - relate " ; ( j ) in subsection ( 11 ) , in the definition of " appropriate custodial term " , in the word before paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) after " terrorism " insert " or national security - relate " ; ( ii ) omit " terrorist " ; ( k ) in subsection ( 11 ) , in the definition of " extension period " , in paragraph ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) , omit " terrorist " . ( 10 ) in section 27 ( interpretation of Part 1 ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 5 ) , for " subsection ( 5A ) " substitute " subsection ( 5A ) and ( 5aa ) " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 5A ) , insert — " ( 5aa ) nor do subsection ( 5 ) apply in relation to a sentence ( a " national security - relate sentence " ) impose on a person under section 205ZC of the 1995 Act in respect of an offence list in Part 2 of schedule 5zb to that Act ( offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 5b ) — ( i ) for " an offence within section 1ab ( 2 ) " , in the first place it appear , substitute " a sentence pass on a person in respect of an offence within section 1ab ( 2 ) or a national security - relate sentence " ; ( ii ) after " 1ab ( 2 ) " , in the second place it appear , insert " or a national security - relate sentence " . repatriation of Prisoners Act 1984 4 ( 1 ) in the schedule to the Repatriation of Prisoners Act 1984 , paragraph 2 ( application of early release provision ) as it apply in relation to prisoner repatriate to Scotland be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after sub - paragraph ( 3d ) insert — " ( 3e ) if sub - paragraph ( 3F ) , ( 3 g ) or ( 3h ) apply by virtue of an offence in relation to which a determinate sentence be to be serve , Part 1 of the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings ( Scotland ) Act 1993 apply to the prisoner as if the prisoner be serve a sentence impose under section 205ZC of the Criminal Procedure ( Scotland ) Act 1995 in respect of an offence specify in Part 2 of schedule 5zb to that Act ( sentence with a fix licence period impose in respect of an offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) . ( 3F ) this sub - paragraph apply if the warrant specify that the offence or any of the offence in relation to which a sentence be to be serve correspond to an offence specify in any of paragraph 9 to 11 , or paragraph 13 in a case where the list offence be an offence specify in any of paragraph 9 to 11 , of Part 2 of schedule 5zb to the Criminal Procedure ( Scotland ) Act 1995 ( certain offence under the official Secrets act or the National Security Act 2023 ) . ( 3 g ) this sub - paragraph apply if the warrant specify that — ( a ) the offence or any of the offence in relation to which a sentence be to be serve ( " the overseas offence " ) correspond to an offence under the law of Scotland ( " the corresponding offence " ) , ( b ) the overseas offence be commit on or after the day on which section 16 of the National Security Act 2023 come into force , ( c ) the corresponding offence — ( i ) be a " relevant electoral offence " within the meaning of that section , and ( ii ) be punishable on indictment with imprisonment for more than 2 year , and ( d ) finding make by the court before which the prisoner be try or sentence for the overseas offence would , have the prisoner be try and sentence in Scotland for the correspond offence , have justify a determination under that section that the foreign power condition be meet in relation to the conduct that constitute the offence . ( 3h ) this sub - paragraph apply if the warrant specify that — ( a ) the offence or any of the offence in relation to which a sentence be to be serve ( " the overseas offence " ) correspond to an offence under the law of Scotland ( " the corresponding offence " ) , ( b ) the overseas offence be commit on or after the day on which section 21 of the National Security Act 2023 come into force , ( c ) the corresponding offence — ( i ) be not an offence mention in subsection ( 6 ) of that section , and ( ii ) be punishable on indictment with imprisonment for more than 2 year , and ( d ) finding make by the court before which the prisoner be try or sentence for the overseas offence would , have the prisoner be try and sentence in Scotland for the correspond offence , have justify a determination under that section that the foreign power condition be meet in relation to the conduct that constitute the offence . ( 3i ) the Scottish Ministers may amend a warrant ( whether issue before or after sub - paragraph ( 3e ) come into force and whether or not the transfer it authorise have take place ) so as to specify the matter refer to in sub - paragraph ( 3F ) , ( 3 g ) or ( 3h ) . " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) , for " that Act " substitute " the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings ( Scotland ) Act 1993 " . part 2 - Northern Ireland Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 5 ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 ( S . I 2008 / 1216 ( N . I . 1 ) ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in article 3 ( 1 ) ( interpretation of Part 2 ) , in the definition of " article 15a terrorism sentence " omit " terrorism " . ( 3 ) in article 8 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( set of custodial period ) , for " article 15a terrorism sentence " substitute " article 15a sentence " . ( 4 ) in the heading of chapter 3 of Part 2 , for " other terrorist " substitute " certain other " . ( 5 ) in the italic head before article 20A , at the end insert " and other prisoner serve an Article 15a sentence " . ( 6 ) in article 20A ( restrict eligibility for release on licence of terrorist prisoner ) — ( a ) in the heading , after " prisoner " insert " and other prisoner serve an Article 15a sentence " ; ( b ) after paragraph ( 2A ) insert — " ( 2ab ) this article also apply to a fix - term prisoner who be serve an article 15a sentence impose in respect of an offence which be specify in Schedule 2b ( offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) . " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 7 ) omit " terrorist " ; ( d ) in paragraph ( 8 ) — ( i ) omit " terrorist " in both place it occur ; ( ii ) for " article 15a terrorism sentence " substitute " article 15a sentence " ; ( e ) in paragraph ( 9 ) — ( i ) in the definition of " appropriate custodial term " , for " article 15a terrorism sentence " substitute " article 15a sentence " ; ( ii ) in the definition of " relevant part of the sentence " , for " article 15a terrorism sentence " substitute " article 15a sentence " . ( 7 ) in article 33 ( 6 ) ( custodial period to be aggregate in case of consecutive sentence ) , in sub - paragraph ( a ) ( i ) , for " article 15a terrorism sentence " substitute " article 15a sentence " . repatriation of Prisoners Act 1984 6 in paragraph 2A of the Schedule to the Repatriation of Prisoners Act 1984 ( application of early release provision to prisoner repatriate to Northern Ireland ) , after sub - paragraph ( 4d ) insert — " ( 4e ) if sub - paragraph ( 4F ) , ( 4 g ) or ( 4H ) apply by virtue of an offence in relation to which a determinate sentence be to be serve , chapter 4 of Part 2 of the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 apply to the prisoner as if the prisoner be serve a sentence impose under Article 15a of the order in respect of an offence specify in Schedule 2b to the Order ( sentence with a fix licence period impose in respect of an offence involve or connect with a threat to national security ) . ( 4F ) this sub - paragraph apply if the warrant specify that the offence or any of the offence in relation to which a sentence be to be serve correspond to an offence specify in any of paragraph 1 to 3 , or paragraph 5 in a case where the ancillary offence relate to an offence specify in any of paragraph 1 to 3 , of schedule 2b to the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 ( certain offence under the official Secrets act or the National Security Act 2023 ) . ( 4 g ) this sub - paragraph apply if the warrant specify that — ( a ) the offence or any of the offence in relation to which a sentence be to be serve ( " the overseas offence " ) correspond to an offence under the law of Northern Ireland ( " the corresponding offence " ) , ( b ) the overseas offence be commit on or after the day on which section 16 of the National Security Act 2023 come into force , ( c ) the corresponding offence — ( i ) be a " relevant electoral offence " within the meaning of that section , and ( ii ) be punishable on indictment with imprisonment for more than 2 year , and ( d ) finding make by the court before which the prisoner be try or sentence for the overseas offence would , have the prisoner be try and sentence in Northern Ireland for the correspond offence , have justify a determination under that section that the foreign power condition be meet in relation to the conduct that constitute the offence . ( 4h ) this sub - paragraph apply if the warrant specify that — ( a ) the offence or any of the offence in relation to which a sentence be to be serve ( " the overseas offence " ) correspond to an offence under the law of Northern Ireland ( " the corresponding offence " ) , ( b ) the overseas offence be commit on or after the day on which section 20 of the National Security Act 2023 come into force , ( c ) the corresponding offence — ( i ) be not an offence mention in subsection ( 2 ) of that section , and ( ii ) be punishable on indictment with imprisonment for more than 2 year , and ( d ) finding make by the court before which the prisoner be try or sentence for the overseas offence would , have the prisoner be try and sentence in Northern Ireland for the correspond offence , have justify a determination under that section that the foreign power condition be meet in relation to the conduct that constitute the offence . ( 4I ) the Department of Justice may amend a warrant ( whether issue before or after sub - paragraph ( 4e ) come into force and whether or not the transfer it authorise have take place ) so as to specify the matter refer to in sub - paragraph ( 4F ) , ( 4 g ) or ( 4H ) . " " — ( Jake Richards . ) the Schedule insert by this amendment make provision which be consequential on clause 8 and 9 ( availability in Scotland and Northern Ireland of custodial sentence with a fix licence period on conviction for an offence relate to a threat to national security ) . bring up , and add to the Bill . Title Amendment make : 21 , in title , page 1 , line 3 , leave out from " criminal " to " ; and " on line 4 . — ( Jake Richards . ) this amendment amend the long title to remove reference to provision no long contain in the Bill as a consequence of the insertion of the clause insert by NC1 which be intend to substitute exist clause 42 . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill , as amend , report ( Standing Order no . 83d ( 6 ) ) . Bill to be consider tomorrow . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Criminal Law that the draft Compensation for Miscarriages of Justice ( Alteration of Overall Compensation Limits ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 July , be approve . — ( Gregor Poynton . ) question agree to . committee with the leave of the House , we shall take motion 4 to 6 together . order , Environmental Audit that Ellie Chowns be discharge from the Environmental Audit Committee and Carla Denyer be add . public Accounts that Peter Fortune and James Murray be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Rupert Lowe and Dan Tomlinson be add . work and Pensions that Danny Kruger be discharge from the Work and Pensions Committee and Joy Morrissey be add . — ( Gen Kitchen , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Wordsworth House and Garden many year ago , the community in Cockermouth save Wordsworth House from demolition when plan be propose to build a bus station , and the birthplace of William Wordsworth now stand as a historic gem on Cockermouth ' s main street . over the summer , follow concern about its future , I launch a similarly word petition , which attract more than 1 , 200 signature . that campaign secure a commitment from the National Trust that the facility would not close . however , the trust have admit that its long - term sustainability remain uncertain . I urge the National Trust to honour its promise to I to work with local business and the community to secure its future . the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with the National Trust to keep Wordsworth House fully operational and open to visitor . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Penrith and Solway , declare that Wordsworth House and Garden , a Grade 1 list national treasure , birthplace of poet William Wordsworth , be vital to our national heritage , education and local economy and its potential closure would be an incalculable loss , rob future generation of a direct link to a pivotal era of English literature and a key contributor to cumbrian tourism . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with the National Trust to keep Wordsworth House fully operational and open to visitor . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003120 ] Social Housing : South Cotswolds Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gregor Poynton . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to raise the issue of social housing in the South Cotswolds , and I thank the Minister for be here this evening . across our town and village , from Biddestone to Barnsley and Hullavington to Hillesley , the story be the same . the need for genuinely affordable , safe and well - maintain housing have never be great , yet precisely when the need be most acute , the supply of such home be be allow to dwindle away . in Wiltshire today , more than 3 , 600 household wait on the council ' s housing register . family and individual be wait for a secure , affordable home . many be in the high - priority band , recognise as be in significant need . local parish survey tell the same story . Biddestone and Slaughterford parish council have undertake two survey in recent year , both confirm a clear and continue demand for affordable housing . there be also a grow need among old resident for small , adapt home so that they can downsize locally , which will free up family house for the next generation , yet in many village that option simply do not exist . I want to make it clear that I be not advocate arbitrary housing target . I be talk about ensure that the right kind of home be build — home that local family , key worker and old resident can actually afford to live in and want to live in , and home that have the infrastructure that they need . while the Government have set new national housing target that will more than double the number of home expect in area such as the Cotswolds , those figure risk do more harm than good if they ignore our local reality . do my hon . friend agree that scheme such as the new social housing in Minehead — the first social housing for a generation — couple with more social housing in Mid Devon specifically for elderly people to downsize from their own social housing be the way forward ? do she also agree that the Liberal Democrats in both institution should be recognise for do a jolly good job ? that do indeed sound like an excellent idea . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward this debate . I speak to she beforehand to get an idea of what she would be refer to . we have a debate in Westminster Hall this morning on homelessness , and one point that come through very clearly be affordability . House price can sometimes be over 10 time the average of what people can afford from their earning . in my constituency — I suspect it be the same in the hon . Lady ' s — many young people want to buy for the first time but can not get a mortgage because the house be too expensive . do the hon . Lady agree that to address the need of those who want to buy a house or access social housing , the Government must build more house to bring the price down so that people can actually afford they ? I agree with the hon . member about the financial impact and even more so the social impact of young people not be able to afford their first home and fly the nest of their parent . it be have a catastrophic impact on young people . return to the South Cotswolds , around 80 % of Cotswold district lie within a designate national landscape — the Cotswolds area of outstanding national beauty — and of the remain 20 % , roughly half be flood plain . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech and highlight perfectly the pressure on the landscape in southern England . do she agree that there be a great deal of scope in many town and even some large village for build on brownfield land ? in read there be a number of example of this , and I be sure colleague have example from their own area . Brownfield could provide a very valuable resource to help protect the countryside . I could not agree more that we should be prioritise brownfield site as well as refurbish exist housing . we could very nearly , if not completely , meet the housing target through those mean without need to take space away from nature or food production . impose a target of over 1 , 000 home a year in the Cotswold district may make a good headline , but in practice it encourage speculative development on greenfield site , where service be often poor and flood risk high , rather than genuinely affordable home for local people in more appropriate location . but I want to be clear that the debate be not about oppose new housing ; it be about ensure that what we build reflect local need , protect our environment and natural heritage and strengthen our rural community rather than undermine they . our infrastructure be already stretch thin . many of our village have limit public transport , age drainage system and GP surgery that be full to capacity . Broadband and mobile coverage remain unreliable in too many place , and with climate change flood risk be rise with every winter storm . we simply can not add hundred of new home without first ensure that the essential service of water , drainage , transport and healthcare can cope . our infrastructure be fragile . growth must be plan sensibly , sympathetically and in a logical order accord to local constraint , not impose from the top down and literally bulldoze through . these home must also be genuinely affordable . over the year , many local authority home have be transfer to housing association under large - scale voluntary transfer . in North Wiltshire , that happen back in 1995 . those home now belong legally to the housing association , not to the council , but too many of those housing association be now sell off rural home rather than refurbish and retain they . in some village , every remain affordable home could be lose . once they be sell into the private market , they be go forever — they will never again be available at social rent . that result be devastating for rural community . young people who grow up in these village find they can no long afford to live in they . teacher , carer and nurse be price out , and old resident find nowhere to go when they want to downsize . if we want our village to remain vibrant , living community and not just be picture postcard backdrop , we must ensure that people of all income can afford to live and work in they . I be grateful to my friend and constituency neighbour for give way . she be speak with a huge amount of common sense . of course , her problem in the South Cotswolds be replicate in the North Cotswolds . the problem with increase the housing number — double they from 500 to 1 , 000 a year , as she say — be that the planning system be not deliver we the number of affordable house . the developer will argue against build affordable housing , because they can make more money out of executive three , four or five - bedroom house . we need to alter the planning system so that developer , through viability argument , can not exclude the building of social housing in some case altogether . I thank my friend and neighbour for his intervention . we do not agree on everything , but we be definitely of like mind on this . I also defer to his experience as a surveyor with great knowledge of the building industry . moreover , those who remain in the exist housing stock be too often live in condition that be simply unacceptable . one of my constituent live in a flat with her two daughter . the eld daughter develop what be think to be asthma , but doctor now believe that her breathing problem be cause by mould spore in their damp home . she describe night spend in panic as her daughter cough uncontrollably . the landlord ' s response have be seasonal mould wash rather than a proper fix that would get to the root cause of the mould problem . some social housing provider have prove difficult for my team even to get a response from , let alone resolution . other constituent tell I of home leave empty for month in village where people be desperate for somewhere to live , of property that could easily be bring up to modern energy standard just leave to deteriorate and moulder , and of repair delay or do poorly . that be inefficient and frustrating . it border on the inhumane . to be fair , the Government have recognise the issue in principle , for which I thank they . the recent policy paper , " deliver a decade of renewal for social and affordable housing " , call on provider to work with the Government both to build new home and to upgrade existing one , but the reality on the ground be that policy be not be enforce . association continue to sell off rural stock while neglect maintenance and retrofit . I urge minister to pause the disposal of rural affordable housing by GreenSquareAccord and similar provider until the new policy framework be clarify . it make no sense at all to sell the very home our community so desperately need . we also need strong enforcement to ensure that housing association meet their obligation both to build new home and to maintain exist one to a decent standard , and there must be consequence for failure to meet those obligation . I ask the Government to support council in rebuild their capacity to own housing stock directly . Wiltshire council have express that ambition and deserve the financial flexibility to make it a reality . on housing stock , I be proud to have be the leader of Teignbridge district council — I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that I be still a member — which have build council house for the first time in 30 year . there be a number of adjustment that can be make , include increase the number of home from 200 to 500 before need a housing revenue account , and I have a meeting with the Housing Minister on make that easy . the Minister tell I that he be go to announce that and make that happen , but I be not convince that that have yet happen . do my hon . friend agree that that be one of several adjustment the Minister could easily make so that it be easy for council to build more council house ? that seem like an eminently sensible plan that I wholeheartedly endorse . come back to genuinely affordable housing across the South Cotswolds , there be a planning tool design for exactly that purpose . rural exception site be small parcel of land on the edge of village , release specifically for affordable housing for people with a strong local connection . they be protect by legal agreement so that the home remain affordable in perpetuity . when properly support and implement , rural exception site can deliver well - design home that keep community alive . alongside that , we also need to see community - lead housing play a big role , with scheme initiate and own by local people , often through community land trust . such scheme build not just house but community . the affordable home programme , which be the Government ' s main grant scheme for affordable housing , have real potential to help , but it too often work for large urban development rather than small rural one . it be an urban tool be implement in a rural setting . it can provide vital funding for social rent and community - lead scheme , yet the rule and deadline be often too rigid for parish - level project . I therefore urge the Minister to make the programme more flexible and to strengthen the rural uplift , so that build a dozen good - quality , energy - efficient home in a Cotswold village be just as viable as build hundred on the edge of a city . I be inspire by the tradition of alm house , which be one of Britain ' s old and most dignified form of social housing . I be encourage to see an architecture award recently give to some alm house in London that show how modern design can honour that alm house heritage : small , beautiful , and community - orient , with share garden and grow space . I can just imagine development in our market town and village similar to those we already have in Cirencester , although those be many hundred of year old . do the hon . Lady have anything she want to say about the value of good design principle and link to the exist traditional architecture in specific community ? we have have a great deal of success in our community in preserve the historical brickwork of Reading and encourage new development to copy that style , colour and range of brick . I see that the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) be nod . he have the same local architecture with the same wonderful array of brick and sometimes use of flint as well . would the hon . Lady like to see that highlight and encourage ? this be what we all want to see . modern housing can be beautiful and blend almost seamlessly with exist housing stock in a way that be pleasing to the eye . it also help community to meld together when housing meld together . there be many village in my constituency , and obviously the Cotswolds be associate with beautiful architecture in that lovely , honey - colour Cotswold stone . where the development be sympathetic , it be welcome , but there be other place where it be have be less sympathetic , and that tend to have an impact on the relationship between the resident in the old village and those in the new development — so yes , I wholeheartedly encourage and endorse the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion . I can imagine development like almshouse in our market town and village : cluster of low - energy home build with local material and ideally by local building firm , surround by share green space for fruit and vegetable . that be how we build not only home but community . to make this happen , plan policy must reward quality and community value , not just sheer quantity . rural exception site need to be protect and strengthen , and national target must recognise environmental constraint . we can not meet housing number by pave over flood plain and protect landscape . public body should be require to release small site near service and bus route at fair value for social housing , for convenience . council must also be able to retain 100 % of right - to - buy receipt , with long timeline , so that they be able to replace lose home on a like - for - like basis . we must also address the pressure from short - term let and second home . a distinct planning use class for short - term let , couple with local power to limit number and apply fair premium , would help to ensure that home remain home , not vehicle for investment . this would help to keep our village alive . so many of they be be hollow out , with half or more of the home empty for much of the week , mean that local pub , shop and school really struggle to remain viable . finally , I ask the Minister to consider , please , a South Cotswolds pilot , bring together Homes England , local council and housing association to plan small - scale , sustainable , community - orient social housing . this would showcase what can be achieve when we design for place , people and planet , not for spreadsheet . social housing be not a statistic ; it be a lifeline . it keep the nurse in Tetbury , the teaching assistant in Fairford and the young electrician in Cirencester live in the community they serve . it keep our school open , our shop busy and our bus route viable . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response and to work with she to ensure that every community in the South Cotswolds have the affordable , safe and sustainable home it need . I congratulate the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) on secure this important debate and I thank the other hon . member who have make contribution today . I have note their comment carefully . the Government recognise the acute housing pressure face rural community , and be commit to ensure that the home build reflect genuine local need , be affordable and be support by appropriate infrastructure . this Government be commit to build 1 . 5 million home during this Parliament , and social and affordable home will make up an essential part of that . we also acknowledge that not enough social and affordable housing have be deliver in recent decade . that shortfall be now be feel acutely in area such as the South Cotswolds , where 80 % of the district lie within protect national landscape and further development must be carefully plan . I support the Government ' s ambition to build 1 . 5 million home . this debate refer more to social housing and I wonder whether you could give an indication from the Dispatch Box — order . the hon . Gentleman must refer to the Minister . he can not keep say " you " . it be exhausting . apology . can the Minister give an indication of how many of those 1 . 5 million home will be for social rent ? I will come to that point for the hon . member ' s benefit . a crucial first step be ensure that local authority plan for the right number of home . that mean assess housing need and then identify how much development be realistically deliverable , take into account land availability , environmental constraint such as flood risk and protect landscape , and other relevant factor . local authority can choose to go beyond their assess need to support wide goal , such as economic growth and infrastructure investment , and to accommodate housing from elsewhere . we expect local authority to explore all option , include maximise brownfield land , collaborate across boundary and , where necessary , review green - belt land . in a recent hearing of the Public Accounts Committee on planning improvement , we hear from the Home Builders Federation that 34 , 000 social house in England and Wales remain unsold . that seem to be an absolute tragedy when there be such demand for social housing . I ask the Minister to look at that urgently . I will certainly consider that . the national planning policy framework set out that local plan must deliver , where practicable , the amount , type and tenure of home that community actually need . that require carefully strike a balance between enable necessary development , and protect and enhance the natural environment . I thank the Minister for give way ; she be be very generous with her time . the number have double in my district of Teignbridge ; 40 % of Teignbridge be within dartmoor national park , the rest of the area be constrain by the coast , and house become more and more expensive to deliver as the number go up . because of that expense , few and few affordable home will be deliver . the standard method be not work to reduce house price . will the Minister reconsider how these number be determined , so that the standard method be no long use to enforce a central number of home , rather than the number of home that the district actually need ? I note the constraint that the hon . member raise , and I will certainly ask official to consider that in any plan . these be not just plan challenge ; develop local plan involve human challenge . we be now live with the cost of more than 169 , 000 child in temporary accommodation and more than 1 . 3 million household on local authority housing register . that can not be allow to continue . we recognise the shared ambition of those from across the sector to build more , build well and build sustainably , and we know that in area like South Cotswolds , where planning constraint be real and community character matter , they be essential partner in help council to meet target and to safeguard what make place special . strategic , evidence - lead local planning will ensure that development happen in the right place with proper community buy - in . housing association must be part of that conversation from the outset . the national planning policy framework set out that the purpose of the planning system be to contribute to the achievement of sustainable development , which include the provision of support infrastructure in a sustainable way . local development plan must address infrastructure need and opportunity , identify what be require and how it can be fund and deliver . that be essential to ensure that new home be not just build , but be part of the thriving , well - service community that the hon . member for South Cotswolds have describe . will the Minister give way ? I be not go to give way again , I be afraid . the hon . member for South Cotswolds raise very real concern about flooding . flooding can have a devastating impact on community , home and infrastructure , which be why we take it seriously . the Government ' s approach be guide by the NPPF , which be design to protect people and property from flooding . it set out a clear expectation that inappropriate development in flood - prone area should be avoid . the sequential test aim to ensure that new development be direct to area of low flood risk wherever possible . where development must occur in high - risk area , the exception test require that it deliver wide sustainability benefit and be make safe without increase flood risk elsewhere . those safeguard be in place to ensure that new home be not only safe but resilient to future climate impact . we be also commit to deliver more sustainable drainage system through the planning system . as set out in our plan for change , we be firmly committed to deliver the big boost in a generation to social and affordable house building . to achieve that ambitious target , we need every part of the sector , include council and housing association , to be work in lockstep and deliver to their full capacity . we be take step to create the condition to ensure that provider across the country can once again deliver social and affordable housing at scale . that include support council to update their local plan , locate site for future development , balance home with infrastructure like school and healthcare , and actively engage community through public consultation . since come to office , we have seek to engage with the sector at every opportunity . we have listen carefully to the view of social housing provider and their tenant on the problem they face and how good to resolve they . but we have not only listen ; we have act . at the spending review , the Chancellor announce a record package of investment design to ensure that council and register provider can increase development of social and affordable housing . as have be highlight , the decade of renewal represent a step change in our ambition to deliver social and affordable housing , set out a long - term vision for build more home , improve quality and strengthen community . we recognise that for many , the reality on the ground have yet to match that ambition , but we be commit to bridge that gap through practical action . step one of the decade of renewal have be to deliver the big long - term investment in social and affordable housing in recent time . we have confirm a new 10 - year , £ 39 billion social and affordable home programme . during its lifetime , we hope to deliver around 300 , 000 new home , with at least 60 % for social rent . that would result in around 180 , 000 home for social rent — six time more than the decade up to 2024 . we also recognise that certain type of much - need social and affordable housing can cost more to deliver , particularly in area with environmental constraint or infrastructure gap . the programme have be design to be flexible in order to ensure that it work not just for large urban development , but for small - scale rural project . we encourage applicant to be ambitious when come forward with bid . the programme ' s full prospectus will be publish in the next few week and open for bid in the new year . I encourage all prospective provider to review their supply plan now — to think big , be bold and come forward with ambitious plan . the hon . Lady should be assure that we understand the scale of the challenge and that we know the strength of this sector , which be why we have pledge to forge a renew partnership with the social and affordable housing sector to support building at scale . she raise many other point , to which I will fully respond in writing , with the support of my official . the important point to stress be that together we can deliver the home our community need , not just for today , but for generation to come . question put and agree to . House adjourn .