prayer the Clerk at the table have inform the House of the unavoidable absence of the Speaker , the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I inform the House that Mr Speaker be in Ukraine at the invitation of Ruslan Stefanchuk , president of the Ukrainian Parliament , alongside Speakers from across Europe . he will provide an update to the House on Wednesday . Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — syrian Asylum claim if she will review the pause in decision on syrian asylum claim . we wish Mr Speaker all the good on his extremely important visit to our parliamentary colleague in Ukraine . follow the fall of the Assad regime , the Home Office withdraw the country policy and information note and guidance on Syria and temporarily pause interview and decision on syrian asylum claim . this be , and remain , a necessary step that several other european country have also take . the pause be under constant review , and when there be a clear basis on which to make decision , we will start process claim again . I be sure my hon . friend will agree that the UK Government , together with the international community , be look for a peaceful solution in Syria that put the people of Syria first . organisation work with the syrian community in Scotland , such as the Scottish Refugee Council , have report a sense of heighten anxiety among Syrians currently in the asylum system , and wonder whether people seek protection should be keep in limbo any long than be necessary . there be also concern that the pause in decision making may increase the backlog of asylum case , contribute to the legacy backlog leave by the Conservative Government . order . Ms Ferguson , be there an actual question ? there certainly be . be my hon . friend able to give a timeline for her decision making ? I understand the heighten anxiety among syrian asylum seeker , but the Home Office rely on the country information in order to make decision on whether particular people need protection , and that information be currently in the middle of quite profound change . when we be in a position to make decision against new , more up - to - date information , we will certainly do so . I hope the syrian community will be patient and not too anxious about the pause currently in place . how many hotel in Scotland be use to house asylum seeker ? we do not comment on where hotel be , but I can tell the hon . Gentleman that there be 216 hotel across the whole country . we will be get those number down as quickly as we can . I call the shadow Home Secretary . many seek asylum , include from Syria , enter the UK by illegally cross the channel , which be , of course , completely unnecessary , as France be a safe country with a well - function asylum system . in relation to those channel crossing , will the Minister accept that the Government ' s plan to smash the gang lie in tatter ? crossing be up by 31 % since the election — they be about to break 300 , 000 [ Official Report , 31 March 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 25 . ] ( Correction ) — and the first three month of this year have be the bad on record . do the Minister accept it be a catastrophic mistake to cancel the Rwanda deterrent before it even start ? I be in Berlin last week , and the new german Government , and other european Governments , be look to implement removal deterrent very similar to the Rwanda deterrent . will she now do a u - turn and implement a removal deterrent so that all illegal arrival be rapidly remove to a safe third country ? some 84 , 000 people cross the channel from the day the rwandan deal be sign to the day it be scrap . the Conservatives fail to deter a single boat or deport a single person . instead , they spend £ 700 million and send four people — four fail asylum seeker — to start a new life in Kigali with free housing , free private healthcare and free university education , at a cost of £ 150 , 000 each . if the right hon . Gentleman really think that pay £ 150 , 000 per removed asylum seeker be an adequate answer to the challenge of small boat crossing , then I do not know what planet he be live on . violence against Women and girl what step her Department be take with police force to tackle violence against woman and girl . I join the Immigration Minister in wish Mr Speaker well for his important trip to Ukraine . the Government have set an unprecedented mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . we have set out new measure , include the first domestic abuse specialist in 999 control room , start the roll - out of domestic abuse protection order , and a new national police centre for violence against woman and girl and public protection . the Chichester - base charity my Sisters ' House give vital wraparound trauma - inform support to 28 woman in 2015 . last year , it support more than 1 , 700 woman . the charity have raise the ongoing issue of cross - allegation , whereby abuser be falsely accuse their victim as a means of keep the control and the emotional abuse go . what step be the Home Secretary take with the Justice Secretary to ensure that the system properly recognise this form of continue abuse and protect victim from be retraumatise ? the hon . member raise an important issue about how coercive control can manifest and how abuser can continue their abuse in different way , include use the civil court . part of the reason for introduce the national centre for public protection be to have the good possible national standard and training , properly for the first time across police and then work across the criminal justice system , in order to keep victim safe . at last week ' s annual police award hold by the Rochdale district of Greater Manchester police , the unsung hero award go to Jayne Ward , who be a sexual assault adviser , for her role in support a rape victim throughout every single day in court . that victim be reward with justice , and the rapist be send down for 12 year . Jayne currently support 150 sexual assault victim . do the Home Secretary agree that we owe a great debt of thank to Jayne and to the police officer who help to secure such conviction ? I pay tribute to Jayne Ward for the remarkable work that she be do to support victim of the most appalling and vile crime , help they to get justice and help they as they go through the criminal justice system . I also pay tribute to the police officer work night and day across the country to tackle sexual assault and abuse . the ambition to halve the prevalence of violence against woman and girl be a laudable one , but could the Home Secretary give the House some more information ? what number be she take as a starting point to be halve ? when will she be able to provide more information to the House and to my Select Committee ? I thank the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee for her question . we be currently draw up a strategy on violence against woman and girl , which will be publish before the summer recess and will set out the approach that we need to take and the need to reduce domestic abuse , sexual assault and stalking — the crime that be most prevalent and of which woman be most likely to be the victim , but which we also need to reduce more broadly . we will set out detail on the measure that we will be look for as part of that strategy . the accurate collection of sex - aggregate datum by police force be essential to address male violence against woman and girl . what plan do my right hon . friend have in place for her Department to implement the recently publish Sullivan review ? I can tell my hon . friend that we take the Sullivan review extremely seriously . it be important to recognise the difference between biological sex and gender and to make sure that police and the criminal justice system always have the accurate datum that they need . woman and girl will never truly be safe while terrify online influencer such as Andrew Tate be allow platform that radicalise man and boy into extreme misogyny . what step be the Secretary of State take with Cabinet colleague to support police in tackle violence against woman and girl ? measure in the Online Safety Act 2023 be be implement over the course of this year . that include the introduction this summer of measure expect to ensure that strong action be take to prevent young boy and child more widely from see inappropriate material , which can be very damaging and very extreme . we also need to work in school to prevent abuse in relationship . rape victim be fail under the previous Government , and too few actually get to see the inside of a courtroom . among those victim be the victim of Andrew Tate here in the UK , who suffer rape and other violence against they . while I know that the Home Secretary can not comment on the current extradition notice with Romania , what message can she send to those victim , whom I have meet and who will be meet a Minister as well , about their day in court and get justice ? my hon . friend will know that there be a court case under way in Romania and that issue around prosecution and extradition decision be matter for the police and the Crown Prosecution Service . I know that she have work with victim , include in her constituency , and it be hugely important that victim of appalling crime have a route to justice , wherever they be in the world . I call the shadow Minister . in at least 50 of our town , gang of man have groom and then sexually torture little girl , with astonishing depravity . still , not one person have be convict for cover up these institutionalise rape . local inquiry can not summon witness , be be refuse by local authority , and can not address national policy like deportation . fundamentally , the Government ' s plan will not cover even one in 10 of these town . will the Home Secretary explain how she will choose which town get a local inquiry and what she will say to the victim whose town will not be include ? the shadow Minister will know that we have ask the police to reopen case and historical investigation , because it be crucial that where there be abuse , include historical exploitation and grooming gang , prosecution take place and perpetrator face justice for their vile crime . we be support local inquiry and the review by Louise Casey into the scale and nature of exploitation across the country . the shadow Minister refer to cover - up . we be introduce a mandatory duty to report child abuse , and we be criminalise the covering up of abuse and exploitation . that be something I call for more than 10 year ago , and I be really sorry that the previous Government never introduce it . defend Democracy Taskforce what recent progress the defend democracy taskforce have make . what recent progress the defend democracy taskforce have make . the taskforce be drive forward work to ensure that the UK ' s democracy be strengthen and protect . this include work to tackle the unacceptable harassment and intimidation of elect representative . I have recently provide detailed evidence on the taskforce ' s progress to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy , and I will give evidence to Mr Speaker at a Speaker ' s Conference evidence session on Wednesday . People in Exeter want to be sure that the election and referenda we hold be safe and secure from outside state actor who want to manipulate our politic for their own end . we already know that russian disinformation on social medium in many african nation be already have a huge impact on their domestic politic . can the Minister confirm that the taskforce will be take into account our own Russia report and that this Government will do everything they can to defend our politic from the malign activity of external state actor ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . it be and always will be a priority to protect the UK against foreign interference . the Government be absolutely committed to safeguard the UK ' s democratic process and have establish measure to protect it . while there be no room for complacency , Kremlin disinformation operation largely fail here in the UK , despite their good effort . that be in part because of the discernment and judgment of the british public but also because of the action of our intelligence service . I declare an interest as a member of the Speaker ' s Conference . do my hon . friend the Minister agree that aside from the security measure that be sadly increasingly necessary to protect candidate and elect representative , it be vital that everyone who believe in the importance of defend our democracy play their part in do so , and that this must include Parliament , social medium company , the traditional medium , the education system , business , charity and civil society organisation ? that way , we can collectively create a healthy and safe environment within which our democracy can flourish . my hon . friend be right to say that the defence of our democracy be something that every sector of our society , business and the medium need to play their part in . I assure he that defend our democratic process be an absolute priority for the Government , and that there be work across department to understand the nature and scale of harassment and intimidation of candidate and campaigner . I assure hon . member across the House that the joint election security and preparedness unit will continue to co - ordinate cross - Government work on all threat , include candidate security . the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution recently speak at an iftar host by the European Islamic Centre , which be connect to Jamaat - e - Islami and Abul A ' la al - Maududi , the Minister for Social Security and Disability attend the Muslim Council of Britain ' s annual dinner , and the Prime Minister host Adam Kelwick , an imam who celebrate the 7 October attack and tell follower to " pray for victory " for Hamas . why be the Government so keen to spend time with and lend legitimacy to organisation and people they say they oppose ? what will the Minister say to the Prime Minister ? we be not , and I do not agree with the proposition that the hon . Member have make . all Ministers — of course , include the Prime Minister — take these matter incredibly seriously , and we always engage in the most responsible way . when the defend democracy taskforce be establish , it be proclaim that its primary focus be to protect the democratic integrity of the United Kingdom . what work , therefore , have it do on the fact that there be a part of this United Kingdom — namely , Northern Ireland — where the democratic integrity of the United Kingdom have be upend by the fact that , in 300 area of law , our law be make not by this Parliament and not by the Stormont Assembly , but by a foreign Parliament : the European Union ? what work have be do to restore democratic integrity to the United Kingdom in respect of Northern Ireland ? I give the hon . and learn Member an absolute assurance that we work closely with all the devolve government on this matter . in fact , I be in Northern Ireland just recently to discuss this with the Justice Minister . the work that we be conduct as part of the taskforce be cross - party and design to ensure that we do everything we possibly can to prevent interference in our democratic process . we take the matter seriously , and we will work with other on it . I call the shadow Minister . I realise that my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) be unable to get a meaningful answer , but with islamist extremism behind three quarter of MI5 ' s caseload , it be essential to shield our democracy from its pressure . the Minister have repeatedly reiterate the Government ' s non - engagement policy with the Muslim Council of Britain , despite a Government Minister attend its annual dinner . more recently , there have be concern about attendee at Government event who have publicly express some frightening view . will the Minister assure the House that the Government remain committed to a non - engagement policy with those who seek to promote extreme view that undermine our democracy ? where Government Ministers go against that , how do the defend democracy taskforce respond ? I assure the shadow Minister that our policy on engagement have not change . I have respond on this matter on a number of occasion . what I can say to he , address the substance of the issue , be that we will tackle extremism wherever we find it . the Government take these matter incredibly seriously . we will never allow they to be use as a political football . we will address these matter and tackle they head - on . shoplift what step her Department be take to tackle shoplifting . what step her Department be take to tackle shoplifting . in the last year of the previous Government , shop theft reach a record high , with devastating consequence for our high street and town centre . the conservative party write that off as low - level crime , but the Labour Government be determined to take back our street from thug and thief . that be why we be end the effective immunity for shop theft of good under £ 200 , introduce a new offence of assault a shop worker and deliver 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer in community across the country . many retailer in Bournemouth town centre and across my constituency have tell I that the same people over and over again be responsible for shoplift and put their staff ' s safety at risk . good progress have be make locally with Dorset police ' s Operation Shopkeeper and the town centre business improvement district ' s use of the UK partner against crime system , but what more can be do to tackle repeat offender and to learn the lesson from successful initiative such as those in my constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for bring to the House ' s attention the excellent initiative take place in Bournemouth . it be a real example of the result that can be achieve when we get local authority , business and law enforcement all come together . I be keen to look carefully at example such as that of Bournemouth and what be happen in the town centre to see how we can learn from such good practice and they can be disseminate . may I thank the Minister for her early answer ? across my constituency , from the Co - op in Dartford to the Subway on the high street and Pet & Garden Supplies on Colney Road , I hear the same frustrating tale from business owner and shopworker about how powerless they feel to tackle shoplift . the measure contain in the Crime and Policing Bill to tackle that problem have just be set out and they can not come soon enough . will the Minister bring hope to people across the Dartford constituency that we will turn the tide on shoplifting after it be clearly deprioritise by the conservative party ? again , my hon . friend be absolutely right . when the conservative party leave office , shop theft be at a record level , up 40 % in the space of two year . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , now say " ZERO TOLERANCE " on shop theft , even in case where less than £ 200 worth of good have be steal . yet , in the two year that he be the police and crime Minister he leave that £ 200 limit in place , allow thief to escape with impunity and , in the absence of any police , say that people should make their own citizen ' s arrest . while shop theft soar , all he have to say to the public be , basically , that they be on their own and should sort it out themselves . many of my constituent be exasperate by the fact that the police be unable to turn up when there be shoplift or a burglary , yet they be able to send six officer to get themselves involve in a dispute with a local school and to warn off local elect representative from get involve . sadly , that misallocation of resource and unwarranted police overreach be not an isolated example . may I urge the Minister to avoid engage in political point scoring and instead join I in send a very clear message from both side of this House that our expectation be that the police should be focus on solve real crime and stay out of legitimate free expression and democratic debate ? I think it be fair to say that the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have be very clear about the priority of this Government for tackle crime through our safe street mission . we want to halve violence against woman and girl over the course of the next decade . we want to halve knife crime over the course of the next decade . we will deliver the 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer back into our community that be decimate under the previous Government . the priority of this Government be very clear in tackle crime and policing . my constituent live just 500 metre from the Tesco Express store in Eastbourne where she work . she do not feel safe leaving as a result of the retail crime there and so get a taxi back home in the evening . will the Minister explain not just what the Government can do to help protect shop worker like my constituent , but what can big business such as Tesco do to well protect the employee who do such an important role for they and for their community ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . clearly , legislation have be bring forward to protect retail worker from assault . however , a good employer will want to ensure their staff be well look after . if there be issue about leave work and need to take a taxi , I be sure that good employer would want to address that and support those retail worker . I call the shadow Minister . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) have outline , this weekend we hear the shocking report that the parent of a nine - year - old girl be arrest by six Hertfordshire police officer and place in a cell for 11 hour because they complain about their daughter ' s primary school on WhatsApp . at the same time , 270 , 000 shoplifting case have be close without a suspect be identify . do the Minister agree that the police should be able to get on with the job of tackle crime on our street ? can she comment on whether they be get their priority right in that case ? as the shadow Minister will know , this be an operational matter for police , and it be quite clear that the chief constable and the police and crime commissioner have set out that there will be a review of what happen in that particular case . violence against Shop Workers what step her Department be take to tackle violence against shop worker . to repeat what I be say , under the previous Government violence and abuse towards retail worker increase to unacceptable level . everyone have a right to feel safe at their place of work . alongside the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and the Co - op , who have long campaign for strong protection for retail worker , we be bring in through the Crime and Policing Bill a new offence of assault a retail worker , to protect those hard - work and dedicated staff who work in store , and to send a really strong message that violence against retail worker will not be tolerate . on Friday I visit the central Co - op in Ashbourne , which recently experience an armed robbery . Elizabeth and Georgia be work there when the robbery take place and be still deeply affect several month later . what action be the Government take to stop violence against shop worker , especially in rural area where the geographical distance involve often mean that the police take long to respond ? I thank my hon . friend for bring that shocking case to the attention of the House . all our thought will be with Elizabeth and Georgia after what they have be through . I also want to applaud the Co - op for the lead role that it have play in help we to develop this new offence of assault against shop worker , to ensure that it be not just armed robbery against its staff that will be punish but the act of violence and intimidation that far too many shop worker find happen on a daily basis . on the issue of serious crime in rural area , our neighbourhood policing guarantee will deliver thousand of neighbourhood police community support officer across England and Wales , include in rural area , to speed up response time , build up public confidence and ensure that for those violent criminal who commit act such as armed robbery , there will be no hiding place from the law . in Ashford and Staines in my constituency we have a real plague of shoplifting and antisocial behaviour . inspector Matthew Walton of the North division be do a great job with his team to tackle it , in combination with the community and the retailer , but still the problem be get bad . after the success of the facial recognition software roll - out in Croydon , will minister please consider extend it to Spelthorne , because it would be a welcome addition to police in my area ? as an operational matter , live facial recognition be something for the police to use as they deem fit , but from my experience of it be use in Croydon , I can see the benefit to police . it seem to be a very effective tool that police force should have in their armoury . off - road bike what step her Department be take to tackle the antisocial use of off - road bike . many of we will know from our constituency the havoc that can be cause in community by the dangerous and deafen antisocial use of off - road bike . that be why this government be give the police strong power to swiftly seize those bike and other vehicle where they be be drive antisocially through local estate and town centre , as part of our mission to crack down on antisocial behaviour and make our street safe . People across Lichfield , Burntwood and the surround village in my constituency — and , I be sure , across the country — be sick and tired of off - road bike be use inappropriately , antisocially and dangerously on our street . the bad example I have see be somebody do a wheelie on a quad bike at 40 mph on Eastern Avenue in Lichfield . I report that to the police and they be follow it up as well they can , but they tell I that they need the new power in the Bill . can the Secretary of State reassure I , my constituent and the rest of the country that this Government will continue to crack down on this problem and will not rest until our street be safe for all road user ? I agree with my hon . friend and I be sorry to hear about the appalling incident he describe . this be a challenge for we in many of our constituency . my constituent in Airedale and Chequerfield see the total nightmare of off - road bike be drive deliberately to harass people . if we have to wait for the police to give multiple warning , they can not take the swift action need , which be why we need the change in the Bill . my constituent Peter from Corfe Mullen have have numerous run - in with e - scooter and off - road bike . what consideration be the Home Secretary give to the redefinition of electric bike so that it be genuinely an electric bike ? the hon . member be right that there be many different form and change to the kind of vehicle , bike and scooter be use . the legislation apply not just to off - road bike , but more widely to vehicle be use antisocially . that be important because the police need to be able to act swiftly and not end up have to try to chase and catch the same people again and again to take action . antisocial behaviour be a significant concern to my constituent , especially the nuisance cause by off - road bike and e - scooter . last Friday , local officer specifically tell I that they do not feel they have the power to pursue the rider of these bike when they be in their patrol car , with rider often taunt and even laugh at they because they know they can not easily be catch . what step be the Government take to ensure that my local officer in Mansfield have the specific power they need to stop those bike and bring those terrorise our community to justice ? my hon . friend be right , and people in Mansfield should not be terrorise by deliberate harassment by people on off - road bike . that be why we be strengthen the law through the Crime and Policing Bill , but it be also why we support the work that some police force be do — for example , the work I have see in Staffordshire where they be use drone to follow those on off - road bike and make swift seizure or arrest . at the weekend , I be speak to resident of Braunstone Town , and many , particularly the elderly , be frighten by the use of off - road bike and similar vehicle give the noise they make and the risk to pedestrian . will the Secretary of State assure I that the Government be take the matter seriously and that they will empower local police force to bring those drive the bike to justice ? the hon . Member make an important point . often , particularly for old people , the way in which the bike be use be just dangerous . the deliberate ramp up of the noise to intimidate and scare people be disgraceful antisocial behaviour . that be why we be increase police power and why we want to work with police on thing like the drone use and other measure to tackle antisocial behaviour . Mobile Phone Theft what step her Department be take to tackle mobile phone theft . street theft increase by more than 40 % in the last year of the previous Government , largely due to soar rate of snatch theft involve mobile phone . there be clear evidence of organise criminality in those crime — this be not just about petty criminal and opportunist . that be why the Home Secretary recently convene a mobile phone theft summit with tech company , police leader and the National Crime Agency , and why our Crime and Policing Bill include a new power enable police to enter premise identify by electronic mapping if steal item be believe to be there . mobile phone theft be a widespread concern in my constituency . between 2019 and 2024 , the spate of mobile phone theft have rise by 22 . 3 % . can my hon . friend reassure my constituent that this Government will take all step to ensure their safety ? I can give my hon . friend that reassurance . our recent mobile phone theft summit result in clear commitment from attendee to work in collaboration to tackle mobile phone theft and the organise criminality drive it . that be also why our Crime and Policing Bill will give police the power , where it be not practical to wait for a warrant , to enter and search premise where steal mobile phone be believe to be . the rise number of mobile phone theft have cause great concern among many of my constituent . by the way , I be not technically minded — I know very little about how my mobile phone work — but many people have everything on their phone : their bank detail be on that phone ; their life be on that phone . if their phone be steal , they be in big trouble . how will we restore confidence in the general public on mobile phone and have all our detail on they ? I think it be worth reflect on the impressive result we have see in recent month from the Metropolitan police in their work to intensify action on mobile phone theft . the hon . Gentleman be right : this be an important subject and we need to see that kind of activity around the country , include in Northern Ireland . Rural Crime what step she be take to help tackle rural crime . the Government be commit to tackle rural crime and safeguard rural area through tough measure to clamp down on antisocial behaviour , fly - tipping and the theft of agricultural equipment . alongside our neighbourhood policing guarantee , we be also provide funding to the national rural and wildlife crime unit to ensure their valuable work can continue . crime rate in rural area have surge by 32 % since 2011 , compare with 24 % for urban area , with a total rise of almost 130 report offence . rural crime in my constituency include theft of agricultural machinery , livestock and fuel . the area ' s remote location make it vulnerable to such crime , which impact on local farmer and resident . what be the Government do to ensure that rural crime get the attention that it deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that vital issue . just last month I hold a rural crime roundtable in North Yorkshire and meet local resident and farmer to discuss this important topic . last week , in recognition of the success of the national rural and wildlife crime unit , I announce additional funding for both in the next financial year , so that they can continue to support the police in rural area . we be also work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council on the next iteration of the rural and wildlife crime strategy . later this year we will implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 and put the necessary secondary legislation in place . ahead of that , we will publish the Government ' s response to the call for evidence on the scope of that legislation . one of the less widely recognise rural crime be the use of catapult to maim and kill wildlife . those weapon be also use in urban setting . I know that the Home Office take the view that the wildlife protection legislation and the police power ought to be adequate to deal with that , but at the moment they patently be not . will the Minister consider review that and possibly amend the Crime and Policing Bill to take account of it ? I be always happy to review legislation and ensure that it be fit for purpose . I would be very happy to discuss that far with the right hon . Gentleman . Live Facial Recognition what her policy be on the use of live facial recognition technology by police force . I thank the right hon . member for his interest in this subject and for the Westminster Hall debate that he secure last year . I want to support the police to use live facial recognition safely while balance public safety and safeguard individual ’ right . the Home Office invest over £ 3 million in 2024 - 25 to develop a small national live facial recognition capability by purchase and equip 10 mobile LFR unit for deployment later this year . I have be listen to stakeholder and will outline our plan in the come month . although I recognise that the use of facial recognition technology can lead to more offender be catch , do the Minister accept that deployment of a permanent network of fix camera across Croydon represent a significant escalation in their use , which make it all the more important that a clear legislative framework govern their use be debate and approve by Parliament ? I fully accept that there be a need to consider live facial recognition . at the moment the law govern the use of that technology come from various different thing — human right and equality legislation , and other measure — and we want to see whether that should be bring together . that be why I have be have a series of meeting over the last few month . as I say , we will set out our plan for live facial recognition in the come month . harlow police department ' s recent successful trial of facial recognition have lead to some arrest . do the Minister agree that technology can play a vital part in tackle crime but can not be a substitute for neighbourhood police ? yes , I agree with my hon . friend . that be why we have commit to neighbourhood policing and 13 , 000 additional police officer and pcso on all our high street and in community up and down the land . Asylum policy : Refugee Convention whether she have receive legal advice on the compatibility of recent change to her Department ' s guidance entitle " good character : caseworker guidance " , update on 10 February 2025 , with the 1951 refugee convention . the hon . Member will know that we take our international obligation very seriously . we be satisfied that the good character policy be compliant with those obligation . we have strengthen our policy to make it clear that anyone who enter the UK illegally , include small boat arrival , will normally be refuse british citizenship . the good character assessment have be a feature of UK immigration law since 1981 and there have never be any suggestion , either now or in the past , that it be inconsistent with our obligation under the refugee convention or any other treaty . one of the most shocking and egregious thing this Government have do be impose a blanket ban on british citizenship for all individual who have enter the UK irregularly , without any parliamentary scrutiny or public consultation , effectively disenfranchise all asylum seeker and refugee , include those who have make this country their home for year . the Refugee Council estimate that up to 71 , 000 refugee who have already be grant asylum could now be block from secure naturalisation . the Minister know that there be no safe route to get to the UK , so nearly all asylum seeker have to arrive irregularly . surely the policy clearly breach article 31 of the 1951 refugee convention , which prohibit penalise those seek protection for their mode of entry ? [ interruption . ] order . all member should be respectful and mindful of their language at all time . now we need to hear the Minister respond . I thank the hon . member for his question . he will know that we explain when make the change that each citizenship application will continue to be consider on a case - by - case basis , and that the Secretary of State may choose to apply discretion to grant citizenship on an exceptional basis where there have be particularly exceptional or mitigate circumstance , such as modern slavery . People smuggle what step she be take to help tackle people smuggle . the Government be today play host to law enforcement counterpart from across the globe to discuss our joint response to organise immigration crime . the UK be not only host that summit but lead the way in its response to this appalling , evil trade , include through new power introduce in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which I note the conservative party vote against . I thank the Minister for that response and welcome the increase co - operation with ally on this vital issue . it be critical that we stop the dangerous crossing , but without tackle the problem at its source , with aid to tackle famine and conflict and by provide safe legal route , do we not risk the crisis continue ? how will the Minister work with colleague across Government to address those factor to ensure that we tackle the crisis fully ? the summit be deal with source country . we be look at how we can co - operate with country all the way along the route use by smuggle gang to ensure that the right message , rather than very slick organise immigration gang advertising , be convey . People smuggler do not just put the immigration system in jeopardy ; they exploit the vulnerable and they put life in danger . there be nothing progressive about allow the vulnerable to be exploit by these smuggler . do the Minister agree that we should be strain every sinew to crack down on these gang and can she update we on her meeting today on this topic ? I agree strongly with my hon . friend and that be why today ' s immigration summit , where 40 country will be co - operate and attend , be such an important event . today we also announce that , since we come into government , we have return more than 24 , 000 people who have no right to be here . we have also tighten up the illegal working regulation to make certain that they apply across the board to the gig economy and to casual worker , too . since the Labour Government come to power , more than 30 , 000 people have enter our country illegally . the Prime Minister say he be very angry about that , but he be not as angry as the british taxpayer , who have to fork out £ 1 . 2 billion a year to keep those illegal invader in our country . do the Minister agree that anybody arrive here illegally should be detain and deport ? we have a duty to ensure that those arrive on our shore who claim asylum be properly process . the Conservatives prevent themselves from do that by become obsess with the Rwanda scheme and they leave we with a huge backlog . we will speed up immigration processing so that we can deal with those people , protect those who have a right to be here and send back those who have fail . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will welcome the steep increase in return and removal that I have just announce . do my hon . friend agree that it be not gimmick such as Rwanda but international co - operation that will fundamentally deal with the illegal gang who be facilitate crossing ? be that not why we should welcome today ' s summit , at which people be come together to co - operate and to tackle those gang ? my hon . friend be exactly right . these criminal be cross - national , very sophisticated and operate across border . in order to respond properly , we have to do the same , and that be what today ' s summit be help we to co - ordinate . Police Forces : Gloucestershire what step her Department be take to support police force in Gloucestershire . total funding for Gloucestershire police for 2025 - 26 will be up to £ 169 . 3 million , which be an increase of up to £ 11 . 2 million on last year and include £ 1 . 5 million to kick - start the recruitment of additional neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer in Gloucestershire — to get those bobby back on the beat in our local community . I thank the Minister for her response . in 2015 , Baroness May of Maidenhead , the then Home Secretary , accuse police force of " cry wolf " over funding cut . in the decade since , police service across the country , such as mine in Gloucestershire , have never truly recover from her scandalous cut to their number . gloucestershire constabulary be one of the worst fund in the country — the victim of an unfit - for - purpose funding formula . last week , the chief constable announce 60 staff cut as she battle with a £ 12 million deficit . will the Minister meet I and my chief constable to discuss those challenge ? yes , of course I will . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as the Minister have say , get more bobby on the beat in Gloucestershire and across the country be crucial to deliver the frontline police that our community deserve , but recent freedom of information figure show that more than 1 , 500 police officer be stick on long - term sick leave , include 148 in my own Greater Manchester police force . on the job , officer witness violent and traumatic event that can damage their mental health , but too many report be leave without enough support . what plan do the Minister have to ensure that mental health support be good enough in the police ? that be one of the way to get officer fit for a return to work more quickly , to be part of restore the proper community police that our community deserve . the hon . Lady raise a very important point about the wellbeing of police officer and police staff . we have the police covenant , which be very important . I have already have the first meeting about the step we be take to improve work around the police covenant , but fundamentally occupational health be a matter for chief constable in their own force . we be very keen that the work that have go on to improve those occupational health standard continue and that the wellbeing of police officer be at the front and centre of our work , so that we have a healthy workforce to deliver for we on our safe street mission . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . today we be host in London the first ever international summit on organise immigration crime and border security , bring together source , transit and destination country which all see the havoc and harm that criminal smuggler and traffic gang cause , undermine our border security and put life at risk . as part of that , the UK be strengthen the law against illegal working in the gig economy , so employer check will have to be do , alongside increase illegal work raid and return . as a result of our work with France , the French Cabinet have for the first time agree to change its maritime rule , so that the french authority can intervene in french water to prevent boat crossing . we be bring together Ministers and law enforcement from close neighbour such as France , Belgium and Germany , and from country far afield such as Vietnam , Iraq , Nigeria , Pakistan , China and the US . they be all discuss today how we strengthen that collaboration to choke off supply chain , pursue illicit finance , take down advertising , disrupt and prosecute the criminal and tackle this vile trade in human being . a constituent have contact I about the difficulty he be face in try to get what he be entitle to via the Windrush compensation scheme . give that victim of the Windrush scandal be not entitle to legal aid , a large proportion be assess as eligible for compensation but can not meet the high threshold of evidence necessary to prove that they be entitle to it . will the Home Secretary look again at what legal support can be provide to the victim of this scandal , so that they can finally get the justice that they deserve ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue around the Windrush generation , who be so badly let down and treat by the Home Office over many year . we have increase support and advocacy for compensation scheme claimant , and the Minister for migration and citizenship , my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , would be happy to discuss the matter with my hon . friend . I call the shadow Home Secretary . have the Home Secretary see the police ' s anti - racism commitment that be publish last week , which say that the police do not have to treat everyone the same regardless of race and call for arrest rate to be artificially engineer to be the same across racial group ? do she agree that this two - tier approach to policing be totally unacceptable ? the police operate without fear or favour , and they respond to the crime they face across the country and to the perpetrator of those crime , whosoever they should be and wheresoever they be . that be the right approach for the police to take , whether they be deal with the most serious violence — which we have prioritise — or with neighbourhood crime in community . as the shadow Home Secretary will know from the approach we be take to the Sentencing Council and the importance of we bring forward rapid emergency legislation in that area , we be very clear that there can be no preferential treatment for anyone in the criminal justice system . it be really important that the principle of fair treatment for all be always maintain . I completely agree with the Home Secretary that people should stand equally before the law and be treat exactly the same , regardless of their race or identity . I agree with the Home Secretary about all of that , but unfortunately the anti - racism commitment publish last week do not say that — in fact , it say the opposite . it expressly say that " it do not mean treat everyone ' the same ' or be ' colour blind ' " . give that the Home Secretary and I agree that the law should be blind to race and that everyone should be treat the same , will she join I in table an amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill to override those provision in the anti - racism commitment ? the police already have to swear an oath on their impartiality and policing without fear or favour . that be the responsibility of every single police officer right across the country . the shadow Home Secretary will know that there be dedicated police officer who do exactly that and will continue to do exactly that , to ensure that they treat everyone appropriately and make sure that everyone face justice before the law . resident of Exeter , particularly female resident , have raise with I their alarm at Tory - lead Devon county council ' s decision to dim or completely turn off 80 % of exeter ' s street light during the night , include on street and path to railway station and bus stop . many shift worker come home late at night or start early in the morning , and have well - light route offer they a sense of security . do the Minister agree that Devon county council should think again , and should consult with resident group and other group on a way forward that put the safety of resident at the centre of its decision making ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . it be absolutely key that people feel safe walk at night , particularly shift worker and resident , and good street lighting be a key part of that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . ukrainian in the UK deserve stability after flee war , yet almost half report severe stress and anxiety cause by prolonged uncertainty about their visa status . some 44 % have lose a job opportunity , 26 % have be unable to sign new tenancy agreement and 25 % have have a student loan reject , all because of that uncertainty . do the Minister agree that this be an unacceptable way of treat those to whom we open our arm , and will she commit to give ukrainian refugee the certainty about their visa that they deserve ? the hon . Lady will be aware that we continue to stand by Ukraine , and to support those whom we have be able to welcome to our country . we have provide certainty under the Ukraine permission extension scheme , which we open on 4 February . under that scheme , people can prove that they have ongoing status through section 3c leave during their application process . this month , we mark eight year since the Westminster bridge attack , a cowardly assault on our parliamentary democracy that kill five people , include the late pc Keith Palmer , and injure almost 50 other . as the survivor seek to rebuild their life , what measure be the Department put in place to support the survivor and honour the victim of terrorist attack ? the victim and survivor of terrorism need and deserve the high level of support to recover and rebuild their life . the Government will set up a new , dedicated support hub for victim and survivor , support their need in the immediate and long - term aftermath of a terrorist attack . proposal for a new national day for victim and survivor of terrorism will also be consult on , help the country to remember and honour those who have be tragically kill or impact by terrorist attack . cambridgeshire ' s rural crime action team be successful , but it do not have the resource to be available 24 / 7 . indeed , it be not available during the recent hare course incursion into my constituency of Ely and East Cambridgeshire . what assessment have the Minister make of ensure the 24 / 7 availability of rural crime action team ? I be very concerned to hear about the incident to which the hon . Lady refer . I announce early that additional funding be go into the national wildlife crime unit and the national rural crime unit to assist force in provide the cover necessary in rural area . during a recent walkabout in Wallsend with Northumbria ' s police and crime commissioner , Susan Dungworth , and the North Tyneside cabinet member for community safety , Karen Clark , I hear about how the police , retailer and the council work in partnership to tackle retail crime . however , while large retailer can provide personal safety equipment for staff , that be not affordable for small retailer . do the Minister have any plan to help small shop owner with such cost ? the Government have announce that we will provide £ 7 million over the next three year to support the police in tackle retail crime , include by continue to fund a specialist police team . there be £ 100 , 000 available to the National Police Chiefs ' Council to assist with measure that retailer can introduce to make their shop and retail outlet more secure . that that may well be of use . topical question should be short . the Home Office state that it take fraud in visa application seriously , but I know of a case involve a man who come here on a spousal visa , be then arrest four time for domestic abuse , and leave the family home in October ' 23 . all this be back up by police report and social worker documentation . in his spousal visa application of March last year , he claim that he be still live with my constituent in the family home . she have report this twice to the Home Office — order . these be topical question . I call the Minister . I be happy to speak to the hon . member about the case she raise . socketts newsagent in my constituency be more than 100 year old , but it face closure because of gang of mask youth shoplifting . what will the Minister do to help Socketts and ensure that it can stay open ? well , that be totally unacceptable . that be why we need our neighbourhood policing guarantee , and bobby work on the high street and in community that have be devoid of police officer for too long , because of decision take by the previous Government . I be happy to discuss that case with my hon . friend . under the Police Regulations 2003 , officer in Hertfordshire receive an allowance of up to £ 3 , 000 , and those in Bedfordshire receive £ 2 , 000 . officer in Cambridgeshire be not eligible for the south - east allowance , despite be in the same tri - force area . the Policing Minister have previously inform I that the Government will give careful consideration to representation regard the south - east allowance . will she take step to award the south - east allowance to Cambridgeshire constabulary police officer ? I be certainly willing to hear representation on that . follow the grip storyline of " Adolescence " and the rise of incel culture contribute to youth crime , what specific measure be the Home Office implement to address the root cause and create a safe and more supportive environment for our young people ? my hon . friend be right to mention the television programme " Adolescence " , which many people will have see , and the issue of rise violence among teenager . we see this in a number of area ; the issue range from knife crime to extremism and violence fixation . importantly , we have the strong measure in the Online Safety Act 2023 to protect young people from see extreme violence and inappropriate material online , but it be also important for we to work with school to prevent violence among young people , include violence in relationship . yesterday , report on the leaking of a report from the National Police Chiefs ' Council on the Leicester riot of 2022 . the report blame Hindu extremism ; however , during the riot , 105 Hindu home be attack , but no muslim home , and two Hindu temple be attack , but no mosque . will the Minister ensure that the report be publish , so that we can scrutinise it and ensure that the blame be put where it should be ? we take these matter very seriously . I will look carefully at the detail of the point that the hon . Gentleman have make , and I be happy to discuss it with he far . there have be a recent slew of successful european sting operation that have result in the arrest of prominent individual involve in people - smuggle gang . do the Minister agree that this highlight the crucial importance of international co - operation , and signal that Labour ' s plan to smash the gang be work ? hard , tough cross - border policing take time . [ interruption . ] conservative Members may laugh , but on a recent joint action day lead by german and belgian authority , 500 german officer arrest target and seize dozen of boat and engine , include some in warehouse target by the National Crime Agency . on a joint action day lead by german police early this month , there be seven arrest in eight raid location , and 90 dangerous life jacket be seize . that demonstrate a momentum in joint working that will put pressure on the criminal gang . in the south - west last year , 77 police community support officer be take off our street ; my local Avon and Somerset force account for 60 of they . it say that the change be a direct result of lack of funding . will the Home Secretary agree to raise the matter with the Chancellor as a matter of urgency , so that we can put more money back into frontline policing ? an extra £ 1 . 2 billion be go into police for the financial year start tomorrow . obviously , past government must account for their failure to fund the police adequately . when the Home Secretary visit Nuneaton to speak to local business owner , she hear from they directly about the problem of retail crime . there be a glimmer of hope , because our town centre officer be have a big impact , but that role be now vacant . shop and other business say that retail crime be at an all - time high , with a 58 % increase since January . now that Labour be put more money into people ' s pocket , what more can be do to ensure that it be safe for it to be spend in town centre ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of town centre crime . we be invest additional fund of more than £ 1 billion in police next year , and be provide an additional £ 200 million for neighbourhood policing , which be cut so heavily under the Conservative Government , so that we can bring it back to our town centre . we be strengthen the power of police officer and pcso to tackle street and shop theft — crime that have soar in recent year because the Conservative Government turn their back on it . during the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill Committee , we Conservatives propose a new clause that would provide a mechanism for a bind annual cap on the number of non - visitor visa issue by the UK . that would have introduce accountability and transparency , but it be vote down decisively by Labour Members . the Government talk tough , but do the Home Secretary not believe that the british public deserve a transparent and honest answer to the question of what the level of migration will be under this government , rather than the Government ' s just blame we , or say " low number " on every occasion ? I be stagger by that question , because net migration reach record high under the Conservatives ' watch . we be the one with a plan to bring it down . quite frankly , the hon . Lady should support that . Mohamed wait nearly three year for a decision on his asylum application , a period that be extend by the pause in process syrian asylum case . if the Minister will not end the pause , what interim step will she take to far support host community such as Falkirk ? as I say early , we be keep under close review the pause in syrian asylum application . we can not decide asylum application against a country policy that be no long relevant because of the rapid change in that country . we will resume those decision as soon as we can . report about the Met police raid and arrest at the Quaker meeting house in Westminster last Thursday have cause great alarm , particularly because quaker be renowned for their non - violent and pacifist principle . the incident raise serious concern about the police ' s approach to freedom of assembly , freedom of expression and the right to peaceful protest . what explanation have the Met police give the Minister for their action that night ? as the hon . Gentleman will realise , this be an operational matter for the Metropolitan police , and I be sure that they will provide further commentary at some point . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Dawn Thurkettle and the Rugby Street Pastors , and particularly the recently commission pastor , on all the excellent work that they do to lower the temperature on night out in our town ? they show kindness and listen to people on our street , and play an important role in our community . I would be delighted to pay tribute to Dawn and the Rugby Street Pastors for their excellent work . many street pastor around the country do really important work in keep people safe and secure on night out . the final question go to the Father of the House . will the Home Secretary consider raise an obvious lacuna in the law in the Committee of Ministers at the Council of Europe ? under the refugee convention , we can automatically deport foreign criminal who enter this country illegally , but under the convention on human right , we can not . surely we can address that in partnership with other member of the Council of Europe . the right hon . Member will know that we have increase the return and removal of foreign national offender significantly since the election . deportation , return and removal have plummet under the previous Government . we be increase they , and I believe it be right to do so . by work internationally , we have secure a new agreement with Germany , which will now go after the trafficking and smuggler gang and the illegal warehouse in that country , but we need to ensure that we take action against dangerous foreign criminal . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to make it clear that in the first question I ask , the number I intend to ask about be the 30 , 000 people who have illegally cross the channel since the last election , which be a 31 % increase on the previous period ; and for the period since 1 January , the number be the high in history . to be clear , the figure be 30 , 000 since the election . — [ Official Report , 31 March 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 3 . ] the shadow Minister have get his point on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I ask the Security Minister why the Government be spend so much time with , and lend legitimacy to , organisation and people whom they say they oppose . the Security Minister reply , " we be not . " I give three example , and for each of they there be photographic evidence . in one case , a picture show the Prime Minister in No . 10 , laugh with the man I mention . I have much admiration for the Security Minister , and I be sure that he do not say what he do deliberately , but can you advise we on how he might correct the record ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . as he know , the Chair be not responsible for the content of question and answer . nevertheless , member should strive to be accurate in the comment they make to the House . if a mistake have be make , there be a procedure for correct the record . Bosnia and Herzegovina I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on HM Government ' s response to the political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question about an issue that be very important to the Government and to many member across the whole House . we strongly condemn the secessionist move by Republika Srpska President Milorad Dodik , which seriously threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina . such action be unconstitutional and dangerous , include to those live in Republika Srpska , whom he claim to protect . the UK , as one of the signatory , remain fully committed to the Dayton peace agreement , which protect the authority of both entity , and support Bosnia as a sovereign and politically independent state . on Wednesday 26 February , the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina find Republika Srpska President Dodik guilty , in a first - instance ruling , of refuse to implement decision of the High Representative . the UK be clear that the High Representative ' s jurisdiction be indisputable , and that disregard the independent decision of the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina undermine the rule of law . in response to the verdict , the National Assembly of Republika Srpska adopt a number of unconstitutional law , and propose a new constitution in clear violation of the Dayton peace agreement . these move represent a significant escalation in Dodik ' s secessionist path , and threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state . as he accelerate those attack on the state , he increase the threat to international peace and security . Bosnia and Herzegovina have the institution and mechanism to respond to this crisis , and we support all effort by domestic actor to de - escalate the situation and take appropriate action . last week , I convene a call with my french counterpart and the other Quint partner — the United States , Germany and Italy — plus European Union institution , in which we discuss our joint effort to bolster security and stability . I also speak to the High Representative last week . in the last few week , I have speak to the bosnian Foreign Minister , Elmedin Konakovi ć , reaffirm the UK Government ' s full support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina . the UK special envoy to the western Balkans , Dame Karen Pierce , reiterate that message during her visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina on 27 and 28 March , at our direction . we welcome the decision by Operation Althea , under the EU peacekeeping mission eufor — the European Union Force in Bosnia and Herzegovina — to activate its reserve force to provide reassurance to the community most affect by the rise tension . in conclusion , Dodik ' s action do not serve the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina , include those reside in Republika Srpska . the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina need their political leader to focus on pass reform and build an inclusive future , rather than exacerbate tension and amplifying secessionist rhetoric . I thank the Minister for his remark . attempt to undermine Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s sovereignty and territorial integrity , and by extension the Dayton peace agreement , be deeply troubling . over many year , the UK have be a reliable supporter of Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s democratic and pluralistic journey , and a trust promoter when it come to the security of the western Balkans . we be proud , when in government , to have appoint Lord Peach as the special envoy to the western Balkans — his work be incredibly solid and robust — and we welcome the fact that the Government have maintain that position with the appointment of Dame Karen Pierce . we , too , look forward to engage with she . I know that the Minister have speak with Foreign Minister Konakovi ć , but what be the UK do in practical term both to support Bosnia and Herzegovina to stay the course and maintain stability , and to defend and promote freedom and democracy in the region ? for the reason that the Minister outline , the issue be pivotable to the security and integrity of the region . how do he envisage that the situation could be de - escalate , and can he update the House on the Government ' s position on strengthen tie between NATO and Bosnia and Herzegovina ? what be his position on EUFOR and its response in recent day ? what direct discussion have the Minister or the Foreign Secretary have with leader from across the western Balkans , include about the very concern action by the leadership of Republika Srpska ? specifically on the protest in Serbia , what assessment have the Minister make of the impact on regional stability and security , and what assessment have he make of any russian involvement in response to the protest there ? finally , can the Minister share what plan he have to work with Kosovo to shore up and build on its sovereignty and independence ? the western Balkans matter to the United Kingdom for so many reason , and now more than ever give the war in Ukraine , so we must be an active player in promote and support stability in the region . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for her point . I be glad she raise Lord Peach because that allow I to put on the record again my tribute to he for all his excellent work as the High Representative ; it be a genuine pleasure to work alongside he . I be also delighted that we now have Dame Karen Pierce , one of our most experienced diplomat , in the role . she be already play a crucial role across the region . as I say , one of her very first visit be to Bosnia , because of the very issue that the shadow Foreign Secretary have outline . the right hon . Lady ask what we be do . I have be very clear about the diplomatic effort that we be take across the region , work with partner and ally include the United States , the European Union and member of the Quint . we continue to work with partner and engage with regional partner , who be absolutely crucial to that stability . the Foreign Secretary meet Croatian Foreign Minister Radman on 24 March , and I speak to serbian Foreign Minister Marko Djuric on 27 March , as part of a regular series of engagement that we have be have , include through the Berlin process . the right hon . Lady will be pleased to know that we will now be host the Berlin process and that preparation for the summit be be lead by Dame Karen Pierce . I assure she that the Foreign Secretary and I have have extensive engagement with regional partner . I be out in Serbia and Montenegro just a few week ago , and I intend to visit the region again soon . the right hon . Lady ask about the important role of NATO , alongside EUFOR . I have refer to EUFOR already . we continue to support Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s aspiration for Euro - atlantic integration , include NATO membership . through joint training of UK and Bosnia and Herzegovina armed force and our support for reform , we be help it strengthen capability and enable alignment with NATO standard . we be work to invest in and strengthen the capability of the Bosnia and Herzegovinian armed force for peacekeeping operation . country that export security be also more secure themselves . we maintain office at the NATO headquarters in Sarajevo . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . what we have see from Russia — in Georgia , Moldova , Romania , the baltic state and now play out in the western Balkans — be nothing less than hybrid warfare . democracy be work hard together to stand strong and support Ukraine , but do the Minister agree that we need to put more effort into work with our ally in support of eastern Europe and the western Balkans , which be very much on the frontline ? my right hon . friend , the Chair of the Select Committee , rightly raise Russia ' s malign action not only in relation to its illegal and barbarous war in Ukraine , but across the whole of Europe and globally . we continue to see a pattern of behaviour intend to hamper Euro - atlantic aspiration , and exploit instability and division . recent attempt by Russia to divide the international community at the United Nations Security Council and in the OSCE have only far demonstrate the resoluteness of partner to work together to protect the territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina . my right hon . friend ' s work in the Committee on these issue be crucial . we be also work closely with our ally and the European Union on these matter , in relation to not just the Balkans but location such as Moldova . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my former party leader , the late Lord Ashdown , regularly express his grave concern about the fragility of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina , draw on his own experience as the country ' s former High Representative . despite repeat warning , the UK ignore the threat pose to peace in Bosnia by Milorad Dodik , his entourage and his supporter in the Kremlin . Dodik ' s late defiance of international authority , reject the legal order of the international peace envoy , be only the late act in his concerted work to undermine the Dayton agreement and regional stability in the Balkans . it be clear that the UK have take its eye off the ball in Bosnia . the Conservatives ' short - sighted decision in 2020 to withdraw our troop from the EUFOR Althea peacekeeping operation send entirely the wrong signal about our commitment to the region . do the Minister agree that the UK should recommit to the eufor mission , so we can work in lockstep with our international partner to prevent a further deterioration of the situation in the Balkans ? Madam Deputy Speaker , you will understand that I can not comment on the previous Government , but I know there be strong support across the House for peace and stability across the Balkans , and that we be all engage in that effort . I assure the hon . Gentleman that we absolutely have not take our eye off the ball . this region be one of the most important to the Foreign Secretary and myself , not least because of our long history of engagement in the region . it be why we have now put in place one of our most senior diplomat to act as special envoy , and why we have be engage in the diplomatic conversation I mention . on the role of the High Representative , we be clear that the political crisis be cause by Republika Srpska , President Dodik and his supporter . we support the High Representative ' s role and we support the use of his power , if necessary . his role remain vital for Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s future prosperity and stability , and we continue to work alongside eufor and indeed with the NATO presence we have there , too . we all know that Dodik have continually deny that a genocide occur at Srebrenica . I be absolutely appalled to see that after his conviction , he be invite by the israeli Minister for antisemitism to go to Jerusalem to address an antisemitism conference . I hope that the Minister can restate the UK ' s strong belief that a genocide occur at Srebrenica and that other country should not be invite Dodik to address conference , particularly on the subject of genocide . I obviously can not comment on Mr Dodik ' s travel , but I can say that we be absolutely clear on what happen at Srebrenica . my hon . friend will know that I have visit Srebrenica and that we have do important work with Remembering Srebrenica . again , there be a cross - party attitude on this issue across the House . we be in a year of very important and solemn anniversary and it be crucial that leader refrain from inflammatory rhetoric and action , and instead focus on build trust between community across the western Balkans , and particularly in Bosnia and Herzegovina . President Dodik ' s language and action be both reckless and dangerous . give that the Minister have just admit to there be russian meddling in the region — as we know , it have be go on for many year — can I ask what conversation he have have with the Americans to ensure that they continue to have command of the NATO headquarters in Sarajevo ? to the point make by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) , can the Minister say whether the UK could play a bit more of a role in eufor , and , from his discussion with the french Minister , whether there be likely to be an extension of that mandate ? as I say , I meet one of the american representative on Friday , with other Quint member , and there be unity across the Quint on these issue . we will continue to work closely with the United States and other partner on this matter . eufor be vital for maintain peace and security in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for uphold the military aspect of the Dayton peace agreement , and we regularly engage with both EUFOR directly and the EU delegation . as the right hon . Gentleman know , we do not currently participate in EU common security and defence policy mission . of course , we be open to future opportunity for co - operation , and we have identify the western Balkans , and , indeed , hybrid activity , as one of the area where we need to see close co - operation . the subject be discuss by the Foreign Secretary and the EU at the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg a few month ago . do the Minister agree that we need leader in the west Balkans region who be focus on build a stable and inclusive future for all the people of the region , instead of escalate tension with reckless rhetoric ? I could not agree more . I sincerely hope that all , include leader in Republika Srpska , will focus on deliver the reform and progress necessary for their citizen , instead of use inflammatory rhetoric and divisive language , which seek only to break down community and unity , rather than build up the trust between community that be so needed . in the 1960 , Germany take the very important step of show programme about what have happen in the second world war with the Holocaust ; the exact opposite have be happen in Republika Srpska and area of Bosnia and Herzegovina , where textbook be be rewrite to actually increase that hatred . will the Minister say what plan the Government have and what intervention they can make to try to get the truth of what happen during that war out to people , so that those country do not just generate another generation of hatred ? I completely agree with the broad thrust of the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment . ensure that we understand what happen in the past and do not attempt to deny what happen be , obviously , crucial for all community ; build trust between community be also crucial . he will understand that we have fund a number of programme — as do the previous Government — include to support those who suffer sexual violence in the conflict in the 1990 , as well as provide extensive support to the International Commission on Missing Persons , which have help to account for more than 70 % of the 40 , 000 people miss from the conflict of the 1990 . those sort of action be crucial to rebuild trust and deal with the legacy of the past . I volunteer with the OSCE to ensure free and fair election in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1996 , follow the Dayton peace agreement . I therefore have huge concern about the escalate tension . I welcome the diplomatic effort we be undertake to support stability , on which the Minister have update we , but can he confirm that he be work closely with european civil society partner such as the OSCE to secure peace and stable democracy in the region ? we continue to work with all organisation that seek to promote peace and stability in the region . my hon . friend rightly mention the OSCE , which be crucial . I know that the issue be of keen interest to member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in this place . we will continue to work with they , with the Council of Europe and with other , include our partner in the EU , the US and beyond . civil society organisation be crucial to that work . many example of the work that we have do in the past to build trust between community and on peacebuilde have be achieve through civil society organisation . be the Minister aware of report that Russia today and Sputnik be increase their dissemination of disinformation in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the same time as the widely respected bosnian service of Voice of America face closure ? will he see what more we can do to counter russian disinformation in the region , perhaps by increase broadcasting by the BBC World Service ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the destabilising hybrid activity of Russia , not just in Bosnia but across the region . he know the step that have be take in this country against RT and other russian outlet ; indeed , we have call they out across Europe and have work with partner on that . he be absolutely right that free , fair , truthful and legitimate medium be need to ensure that citizen have the truth about what be happen , not the kind of lie that be peddle from the Kremlin . I can not make specific promise , but he know that we treat the BBC World Service very seriously . the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , be here with I and will have hear his comment closely . as have be note , the action of Milorad Dodik over the past few week and month have seriously undermine the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina and have undermine the Dayton peace agreement , which end the country ' s 1992 - to - 1995 war in the aftermath of the horrific genocide that take place in Srebrenica . what step be the Government take to work with partner such as the US , the EU and other western balkan country to ensure that the territorial integrity of Bosnia be uphold during this fragile period ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the need to work with our partner . my french counterpart Minister Haddad and I convene our Quint partner and the EU institution on Friday for a joint meeting ; Minister Haddad be visit London and we take the initiative to meet our partner , because we be deeply concerned about the situation in Bosnia . we have also be engage with those in the region , include Serbia and Croatia . I , along with the special envoy , the Foreign Secretary and other , will continue to do so . one detect the hand of Russia here , much as one do across the entire periphery of Europe , from the High North , Ukraine , the Balkans and the Caucasus , which the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee mention , to the Sahel , the Maghreb and Libya , right over to the Greenland - Iceland - UK gap . will the Minister describe the british strategy for roll back russian destabilisation across the entire periphery of Europe ? in 30 second ! to do so in a few second would be a challenge , but I assure the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) that in all those region we be not only conscious of what Russia be do , but actively work with partner to push back . that be why it have be identify as an area for close co - operation with the EU ; it be why we work closely with the United States and other ; and it be why we work closely with individual partner in specific context , include in Moldova in response to russian attempt there . the Balkans , Moldova , the Caucasus and elsewhere be all area in which we see Russia spread misinformation , lie and bad . Dodik ' s reckless rhetoric have be note many time in the House this afternoon . can the Minister assure I that work be be do with partner in the region to ensure that there be no contagion ? I be think in particular of Kosovo . my hon . friend rightly raise Kosovo , a country that I have visit on several occasion and which we continue to support . we also continue to support the important dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina and to work with EU and other counterpart on this crucial issue . we play a crucial role in KFOR in Kosovo in promote peace and stability . it be important , as my hon . Friend say , to understand the wide regional implication and to continue to work with all partner to promote peace and stability , whether that be in Bosnia and Herzegovina , in Kosovo or in respond to russian hybrid activity . give the recent love - in between Washington and Moscow , it be hardly surprising that the killer in the Kremlin be encourage all his sidekick to stir up trouble in area such as Bosnia and Herzegovina . be the Government aware of and keep under very close scrutiny other potential area where ally of Mr Putin can be expect to start to stir up trouble and destabilise thing as part of his move , now that he be on the front foot in Ukraine ? I would not agree entirely with the right hon . member ' s characterisation . one only have to look at what President Trump have say in the last 24 hour on these matter to see that we be unite in try to not only find a sustainable peace in Ukraine but call out Russia on its action and take the necessary action . when it come to Russia ' s activity elsewhere , as I say there be very strong Quint unity on this issue , and it be a real pleasure to be alongside american and european counterpart with a strong , united approach . it be crucial that there be strong transatlantic unity on these issue , and we will continue to work for that with european and american partner . the Sarajevo security conference be in a couple of month , and there will be a session on defence technology . I have be ask along to speak about it . NATO country in Europe be rearm and spend increase defence budget on invest in and develop defence technology . what step be the Minister take to ensure that our friend in Bosnia and Herzegovina be also update their capability ? what message can I take to that conference ? I be glad to hear that my hon . friend have be invite to that conference . it be important that we have link at a parliamentary level with country in the western Balkans , particularly on these important matter . I mention early that we be work , include through our presence at the NATO headquarters in Sarajevo , on invest in and strengthen the capability of Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s armed force , and consider how they might be deploy internationally too . that be very important . we will continue to work with european partner , both inside and outside NATO , to ensure that we can all collectively contribute to european defence , particularly in response to the hybrid activity and new advance in warfare we see , whether it be cyber or drone technology . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . last November , I visit the Srebrenica memorial centre , and I be sure the Minister will share my revulsion at the fact that it have to close its door for a short period just a few week ago due to the political situation there . before he do so , can he elaborate on the position that the United States of America have adopt in respect of Bosnia and Herzegovina and whether he view the US as a stable ally that recognise that the western Balkans be crucial to the security of Europe as a whole ? we and the United States play a crucial role in the western Balkans , particularly in achieve the Dayton peace agreement itself . we continue to be commit to that . as I say , there have be strong unity among the Quint , and it be important that the United States and Europe work together on these issue . there have be a legacy of 30 year of relative stability — I say " relative " because there have be deep threat to it at different point — and we need that to continue for the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina . I be sure we be all committed to that . far to the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , and know how much the Minister value soft power , can he reassure the House that there will be no further cut to the British Council or the World Service in the Balkans on his watch ? I will come back to the hon . Lady on her specific point about British Council and the BBC World Service funding , but I have mention our wide development spending in the region . while we be have to make very difficult decision at the moment , it be worth reflect on the fact that through around £ 50 million this year from the integrate security fund and Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office official development assistance , we have continue to empower woman and girl , strengthen democracy , build resilience to domestic and state threat , and promote peacebuilding and transitional justice . we have be engage across a range of different area in the development and soft power space to contribute to peace and stability in the western Balkans , and in Bosnia and Herzegovina specifically . I associate myself with the comment make about the British Council and the BBC World Service . a few week ago , I have the privilege of visit 77th Brigade , the anti - russian - disinformation brigade base at Newbury . have an assessment be make of the rise of russian misinformation and disinformation in the Republika Srpska theatre in recent month ? we hear during that meeting that Russia be increasingly use misinformation and disinformation across Ukraine , eastern Europe , and indeed the Balkans . we be clear that Russia continue to spread lie and disinformation and misinformation not only in the western Balkans but in many other location across Europe . we continue to work with ally and partner — the EU and other — to challenge that . there be a particular challenge in the western Balkans , which be why we also support effort there to strengthen free medium , journalism and civil society organisation . in my previous role as trade envoy to the western Balkans , I visit Bosnia and Herzegovina on a number of occasion , and it be evident that though the entrepreneurial spirit be alive and well , business leader be frustrate by the deadlocked structure that they must work in . our embassy be do what it can , but can the Government take any further initiative that could increase economic activity and trade between our two nation ? the hon . member raise an important point , and I pay tribute to he for his work . he and I travel together on a number of visit to the region — include to Bosnia and Kosovo — so I be well aware of his interest and engagement there . there be many opportunity for increase economic linkage and trade with all the country in the region , and we continue to promote those . indeed , I discuss they on my recent visit to Serbia and Montenegro . the hon . member be absolutely right that this be fundamentally about leadership in the region . as I say , the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina need political leader to focus on pass reform and build inclusive future , rather than exacerbate tension as we be see with President Dodik in Republika Srpska , because that do not serve the people of Republika Srpska . the Minister have acknowledge that the secessionist move in Republika Srpska could have ramification for the western Balkans more broadly . one part of that be the north of Kosovo , where there be a Kosovo serb minority . while the UK do not contribute to EUFOR and Operation Althea , we do contribute to KFOR in Kosovo . what contingency plan exist for british troop to reinforce KFOR through a strategic reserve , as happen in 2023 ? I be sure the hon . Member will understand that I be not go to get into operational detail , but he can be sure that we prepare for all scenario across the region . that be why we have welcome the step that EUFOR have take in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina . the hon . member be right to highlight the role that we play in KFOR . indeed , I also visit KFOR with the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) and see the important work that it do in line with its mandate . it be important that everybody take step to de - escalate tension and deal with issue that have not be deal with . I have raise the Banjska incident a number of time , include with Serbia , and it be important that those responsible be hold accountable . I thank the Minister very much for his answer ; he understand the issue incredibly well . he will be aware of the recent judgment make in respect of human right , in particular those involve discrimination against the jewish community . will he outline whether the deputation include discussion of faith and freedom and people ' s ability to practise their faith , and what the outcome be envisage to be to secure the right for people to hold and live their faith , no matter what that faith be , in Bosnia and Herzegovina ? I thank the hon . member for that important question . he will be pleased to know that interfaith engagement be part of the special envoy ' s recent visit . I can write to he with a little more detail about that . of course , this be a country that have a strong tradition for a number of different faith . at the moment , we be celebrate Eid and the end of the holy month of Ramadan , but alongside muslim community , christian and jewish community have a long heritage in Bosnia and Herzegovina — I have witness that with my own eye . we remain a staunch defender of freedom of religion or belief , and we will continue to work with organisation that promote an inclusive and diverse society where everybody be respect and not discriminate against on the basis of their religion or belief . Myanmar Earthquake the heartbreaking scene from Myanmar and Thailand over the weekend have shock the world . I be sure I speak for those across the House in express our sincere condolence to all those affect by this terrible tragedy . the devastating earthquake have only add to the plight of the people in Myanmar , who be already face extreme vulnerability and hardship . over 3 , 000 people have die and that be likely to increase significantly in the day ahead . I thank all the first responder in Myanmar , as well as the humanitarian and civil society partner work tirelessly in extremely difficult condition to assess the scale of destruction and provide lifesave support . I put on record the House ' s thank to our team in Yangon , and express the UK ' s continued solidarity with and support for the people of Myanmar as they face yet more hardship . within the first half hour of the earthquake on Friday , the UK release in - build contingency funding to our humanitarian partner in Myanmar , and on Saturday , the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , and the International Development Minister , Baroness Chapman , announce a furth £ 10 million of life - save support . that will be deliver to UK - fund local partner already mobilise to provide a humanitarian response on the ground because of the ongoing conflict . it will bolster their effort , include in the area hard hit by the earthquake , where they will help provide the most vulnerable with food , water supply , medicine and shelter , regardless of their location . I assure the House that these fund will not be use to benefit the current Myanmar military regime or individual and entity sanction by the UK . instead , it will be direct to partner with whom we have a trusted and long - stand work relationship , with a strong record of deliver assistance in an extremely challenging operate environment across Myanmar . our priority be to help the most vulnerable in all area affect by this disaster , include those outside the control of the military regime . the UK be also support the emergency response through other global fund , in which we consistently rank as one of the top donor every year ; for example , the $ 5 million from the United Nations central emergency response fund and $ 2 million from the Access to Health fund . those fund will support emergency health response effort focus on first aid and trauma care for the affected population . to conclude , our combined support demonstrate the UK ' s continue commitment to support the people of Myanmar . despite the earthquake , we have see report of ongoing airstrike against civilian target . such attack have have devastating consequence on local community over the last four year , and we condemn all attack that target civilian and civilian infrastructure , include school and hospital . we welcome exist ceasefire and call on all party to the conflict to give emergency responder and humanitarian partner full , unhindered and safe access to those affect . we recognise that the earthquake have also have significant impact in Thailand , and have express our deep condolence to the Government of Thailand and to the family who have lose love one . we provide consular support to british national who be affect and I be relieve to update the House that our high - achieve team in Bangkok continue to function as normal . we stand with the people of Myanmar and Thailand at this challenging time , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of her statement . as she have rightly say , the thought of the whole House be with all those impact by the terrible earthquake affect Myanmar , Thailand and the wide region . it be a tragedy that over 3 , 000 people have already be confirm dead and many more be injure , and that so many still remain missing , leave family grip by anxiety as they await news of their love one . they be foremost in our mind , and I join the Minister in express condolence to those affect . the image of rescuer search through rubble , dig with their bare hand , be deeply move . we hope and pray that more survivor be find and that effective recovery and stability operation can take place as quickly as possible . we understand , as the Minister have say , that the Government have commit a £ 10 million humanitarian package for Myanmar in the light of the awful earthquake and that that aid be be deliver through trust humanitarian partner — she have mention some of those already . will the Minister give any detail of the aid partner that the UK be work with ? the Minister have explain that the package will provide food , water supply , medicine and shelter — and quite rightly . will she give further detail of the quantity and the type of food and medicine be provide and who they be be provide by ? the statement also refer to the release of an in - build contingency fund for partner already in the country . can the Minister confirm how much this be worth ? be this on top of the £ 10 million that have be announce ? what will it be use for ? can she give detail of how multilateral funding be be spend in response to this earthquake ? can she also comment on any contingency planning take place for respond to any further serious aftershock ? be there sufficient arrangement to get aid over the border into Myanmar ? give , as she have say , that Myanmar be control by a military dictatorship , what safeguard be in place to ensure that british aid reach those in genuine need ? what be the Minister ' s assessment on whether deconfliction will be possible to shield humanitarian effort from military action , give the report that Myanmar ' s military have be strike civilian area despite the obvious need for a focus on humanitarian relief ? what be the british Government ' s assessment of those report — if , indeed , they be accurate — and how do they intend to respond ? moreover , do the Minister believe that the fallout from the earthquake will affect the humanitarian situation for the Rohingya refugee ? what specific assessment have be make of their need in the light of this terrible tragedy ? will any of the £ 10 million that have be announce go towards support for the Rohingya , or will there be an adaptation of exist programme to support they ? can the Minister also update the House on whether any of the £ 10 million be earmark for Thailand , or whether there be a separate package of support for Thailand ? it would be helpful for the House to understand whether formal request for assistance have be receive from any of the country affect by the earthquake , and what the UK ' s official response have be , as well as whether Ministers have have any discussion with counterpart affect in those country . we will , of course , also look to the UK Government to provide all the necessary support for british national who be affect in the region ; that be crucial . we know that Thailand be a popular holiday destination , and she have mention some of the consular assistance that be take place . we have see various activity on social medium about how the Government be ensure that messaging be target , but can she provide any specific on the nature of the support that FCDO consular team be able to provide to british national in the region ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her share concern about this earthquake and for her many point of detail . on the £ 10 million , that be on top of the current allocation . Myanmar be one of the part of the region that receive the large official development assistance funding , due to the conflict there . this be an extra £ 10 million . on the aftershock , we be await more news , it be only three and a half day since the initial earthquake , but give the shallow nature of it , the assessment be that the aftershock in Bangkok be currently the bad . should I hear more on that , I will update the right hon . Lady . in relation to safeguard the aid , the right hon . Lady make the important point that it would be easy for the military regime to divert the aid away from the frontline . this be where the experience of our excellent staff on the ground play such an important role , because we have try and test method of work through grassroots organisation to provide aid into the centre of Myanmar and in and around the region of Mandalay . we have trust way of provide that aid , without be concern that some of it might be divert into the military . on the Rohingya , that be be see separately . we will be work a little later in the year on more support for the Rohingya . in the settlement of the Myanmar question , we hope that the Rohingya will be able to return to their part of Myanmar over the long term . right now , the immediate support that the Government be able to provide be very much assist with central Myanmar , but I can reassure she that we have a different strategy for the Rohingya , which I can write to she about . on the separate package for Thailand , the current assessment be that the consular team have no extra concern regard people come across the border . our consular team be work as usual and our excellent ambassador there have give we reassurance that the team in Bangkok be operate as usual . on our counterpart , due to the long - stand nature of the development work in Myanmar , we work closely with colleague across the region who be helpful in Myanmar . it be complex and there be many hard - to - reach area , so we work closely with some EU partner and some partner in the region , who have come to the aid of those suffer in this earthquake . that include Singapore , India and other neighbouring country . the right hon . Lady also ask about the british consular assistance . we have an update that there be no concern regard miss british traveller either in Myanmar or Thailand , but I will continue to update she should that change . the terrible loss of life and destruction cause by the earthquake in Myanmar be heap far suffering on the people of that country , who be endure a violent , repressive military regime and a brutal civil war . do the Minister share my horror that Myanmar ' s military regime be continue airstrike and ground attack even during this humanitarian disaster ? what possibility be there of humanitarian aid reach non - Government - control area in the periphery of the country ? I thank my hon . friend for his work with the Burma Campaign over the year and for his question . we have hear the report of airstrike after the earthquake and be look into that with our partner . the UK have consistently call on the military to cease its targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure , include school and hospital , and we fully condemn those attack . the military must immediately cease attack on the civilian population , include humanitarian personnel . all party to the conflict must ensure full unhindered humanitarian access to the most vulnerable and ensure the safety of those facilitate it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I share the grief express by the whole House for the people of Myanmar . it be heartbreake that a country that have already suffer four year of brutal civil war now face further devastation . I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s announcement of £ 10 million to support the emergency response . it be vital that these fund reach those most severely impact by the disaster as quickly as possible . can the Minister confirm how much funding have be dispense so far and outline the step her Department be take to translate fund into lifesave aid as quickly as possible ? as the death toll continue to rise and the ultimate scale of the disaster become clear , will the Minister confirm that the Government will continue to increase our humanitarian support to match the need on the ground ? in the spring statement , we see that the UK ' s development spending face a cliff edge in 2026 , with almost £ 5 billion in cut anticipate by that time . that will reduce the UK ' s ability to respond to disaster and provide the long - term consistent support that rebuild Myanmar and its economy will require . will the Minister confirm that bilateral aid to Myanmar will remain a priority ? the military junta in Myanmar have long block aid access for civilian in opposition - control area . aid worker have be attack , and we hear report that aid worker respond to the earthquake fear junta arrest and interference . what be the Government do to ensure that humanitarian aid be get through and that responder on the ground can work free from repression ? will the Minister outline the Government ' s diplomatic response to the wide conflict and their response to what the UN be call report of human right violation ? Myanmar need our support in the aftermath of this tragedy . as the world ' s spotlight turn to it , I urge the Government to take this opportunity to use every lever they can to push for an end to conflict and for a future democracy . on the question of how much of the £ 10 million have be spend , it have only just be allocate within the 48 hour , so it be still build on that firm base we already have . we have be a donor country to Myanmar for many year , and so be build on a solid base . the £ 10 million will be spend rapidly on the emergency response . the hon . Member ask about the impact of UK ODA cut on the response to the earthquake . we know that the extra £ 10 million that the Foreign Secretary announce be on top of the original allocation . the hon . member share her worry about the future impact give our announcement that gross national income spend on ODA will drop to 0 . 3 % . I can confirm that the International Development Minister set out to the International Development Committee that the initial bilateral ODA allocation for 2025 - 26 be set at the level of live contractual arrangement with partner . unlike in the previous reduction of aid where there be in - year reduction and programme stop from one day to the next , that be not how this Government will look at the aid budget . the Minister for Development will lay out to Parliament how she intend to conduct the comprehensive spending review post 2025 - 26 , and how she will bring that the percentage down to 0 . 3 % , but it be immaterial how that relate to the question of funding in response to the earthquake , because of the extra £ 10 million . we will continue to monitor that funding , and should it need topping - up we could do so , but our assessment at the moment be that it be about right give how many different partner be come forward . our heart go out to all those affect by the tragic loss of life and devastation in Myanmar and Thailand . the Disasters Emergency Committee say that it be monitor the situation and be consider launch an appeal , as it have do for previous tragedy of this scale . what discussion have the Minister have with the Disasters Emergency Committee and its 15 lead group on its ability to operate in Myanmar and on whether it will launch an appeal ? if it do so , will the UK Government use UK aid Match to match the generosity that I be sure the british public will show , in order to ensure that as much money as possible reach the frontline in Myanmar and Thailand ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his knowledge in these area of policy . I ask he to allow four or five day so that the various international partner that make up the Disasters Emergency Committee have time to deliberate . as he be aware , we have a generous civil society in the UK . as soon as there be information to bring forward , we will make a public statement . I thank the hon . Lady for her statement to the House . for those of we who have be closely involve on issue to do with Burma / Myanmar for decade now , the severity of the disaster be show by the fact that , unusually , the regime have call for international support . however , it be a mark of the barbarity of that illegal and corrupt junta that it conduct 11 airstrike against its own people after the earthquake take place , which be undoubtedly a war crime . we have a long history of engagement with Burma . some 6 . 3 million child be absolutely dependent on assistance . it will be very difficult to sustain the necessary level of support in future follow Labour ' s dreadful cut to the international development programme . what discussion have the Minister have with her american counterpart to ensure that we drive the UK and US joint spending and get great value for money ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his contribution and for his knowledge of Myanmar / Burma and of the situation . I could not agree more with he in his description of the Tatmadaw and its approach over the year — absolutely ruthless and brutal to its own people . he talk about the child who be affect . he will be aware that between 4 million and 5 million child be out of school even before the earthquake , so there be a strong sense that this could not have happen to a more vulnerable country . he ask about the role of the USA . as he be aware , US aid have be pause internationally , but I be delighted to see at the weekend that the US Government have say that they will contribute $ 2 million immediately . we will seek to work with US partner , who know the area as well , so that we can join up our effort . I associate myself with the Minister ' s word about what be go on in Myanmar and Thailand . in my former role as the Prime Minister ' s envoy to Thailand and Myanmar , I have the opportunity to see the extraordinary work that british business do in both country . I fully understand that the british mission in Thailand be support all such business there , as it have do for many year . in Myanmar the situation be far more complicated , yet there be still a number of british business — from big conglomerate down to entrepreneur try to cut a furrow in that country — and they employ burmese national , who would otherwise be starve give the complex political situation there . may I urge the Minister to work with the Department for Business and Trade to see how we can support british business in and around Yangon that be otherwise not be support because of the situation with the junta ? I thank the hon . gentleman for all his work on behalf of the Government on understand the trade picture and get to know the business . he be right that there be a number of business for which it be safe to undertake business activity , and where there be good practice they have support the workforce through thick and thin , not just of course in Myanmar but in Bangladesh , which be go through a difficult time , and in Thailand . I will certainly take his message of support to our mission in Yangon and Bangkok , so that all our partner there can be aware of the support here in the House for that ongoing work . I thank the Minister for her statement today . this be so much more than a humanitarian crisis . it be a double disaster : a humanitarian crisis on the back of civil war and further military attack on the domestic population of Myanmar . give the United States ' withdrawal of USAID and the withdrawal of Voice of America and Radio Free Asia , what be be do to support the BBC World Service ' s burmese service in an environment where information will be absolutely vital to the maintenance of service and the saving of life ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that suggestion . he be correct that usaid have be freeze , but it be encouraging to see over the weekend an announcement by the US Government that $ 2 million will immediately be put towards deal with this dreadful earthquake . that be a hopeful sign that we can work together on this emergency . on the BBC World Service , the hon . Gentleman be right to say that often the radio be the only thing that people be able to access and it give they so much hope . with his permission , I will write to he specifically on the exact position of the BBC World Service in Myanmar . many , many compassionate people across West Worcestershire and the whole of the United Kingdom will be want to know what they can do to help in this situation , so will the Minister give we some further information on how UK taxpayer may donate and whether there will be an aid match ? I thank the hon . Lady for her suggestion . she be right that so many people will be think , " how can I do my bit for the people of Myanmar ? " as I mention to my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , detail will be available as soon as the Disasters Emergency Committee — the joint appeal across all the different body — come forward , which will be within the week , because of course the earthquake happen just on Thursday night and Friday morning . I want to say very clearly from the Dispatch Box that the DEC be a proper brand that can be trust by our constituent , because it be very important that people do not give money online through Facebook and other platform if they be not sure of they . as soon as the announcement be ready , we will work very carefully with international partner about where those donation can go . I thank the Minister for her statement and for her compassionate word , which encapsulate , I believe , the opinion of all of we in this Chamber . the major earthquake in Myanmar have cause over 2 , 000 death and the collapse of numerous high - rise building , temple and house , destroy family and livelihood and disperse family in all direction . what discussion have the Minister have with counterpart or official about ensure that everything be do to get child to a place of safety with the necessary aid , and that effort will be make to reunite any displace child with their family as soon as be humanly possible and with all urgency ? I thank the hon . member for his usual compassion for the child catch up in this disaster . I reassure he that child be fortunately not in school , as it be the school holiday ; child be not in earthquake - affect school , which be a huge relief . obviously , certain place of religious belief be affect by the earthquake . we do not have an exact picture yet , but we know that through the work that the UK have do over the year with the 4 million to 5 million child , whether through vaccination and health programme or through our education programme , we have a very good and trust way of work at grassroots level to get to the hard - to - reach family to serve they and ensure that they have lifesave aid . the regime ' s use of its Kremlin - back military during a humanitarian crisis to attack its own people be a complete obscenity . have the Minister call in the Myanmar ambassador so that he can offer an explanation ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that suggestion . along with he and the whole House I condemn the action of the Tatmadaw . I be sure he be aware that currently there be no ambassador as such , but there be a charg é d ' affaire . we do not have formal relation with the charg é , but I agree with what the right hon . Gentleman have say ; the message from this House be very clear . can the Minister explain a bit more about the mechanism by which any aid donate in this country will reach people on the ground in Myanmar ? particularly give the airstrike we have hear about , it be hard to imagine how such aid would get to area that be currently under attack by the regime . I thank the right hon . member for raise that . to be 100 % clear , the usual procedure be for the Disasters Emergency Committee , which be make up of government plus large non - governmental organisation and United Nations agency , to arrange a mechanism for safely give donation . we know that if people give donation to different group , they may not go to the right place . as soon as we have that information , which will be within a week of the event happen , we will provide it , but it require co - ordination across a number of government plus the UN agency , faith group and all the other group . as soon as that be ready , we will let the right hon . Gentleman have the detail . the earthquake in Myanmar could not have come at a bad time , give that million be already displace and need humanitarian assistance as a result of the ongoing civil war since the military coup in 2021 . I welcome the Minister ' s condemnation of the multiple airstrike that have take place since the earthquake and the £ 10 million of assistance that have be announce . however , numerous charity have come forward with emergency appeal to support those affect , and I have hear some warm word about how we can build on that . will the UK Government support those appeal — as mention by other across this House ; we be speak with one voice — through aid match , so that for every pound donate by member of the public , the Government will contribute a furth £ 1 of UK aid ? I can confirm that that suggestion be under active consideration . Birmingham City Council with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on the statutory intervention at Birmingham city council and on the issue affect the waste service . this Government be elect on a manifesto that pledge to fix the foundation of local government . the public rightly expect and deserve well - function local council that provide the essential statutory service that resident rely on . local council must be fit , legal and decent . commissioner have be work with Birmingham city council for the past 18 month to support it in its recovery , and today I be publish their late report into the progress on that journey . the report land at a point of acute difficulty for resident in Birmingham , as the ongoing dispute in the waste service be result in rubbish pile up in the street . I will therefore take this opportunity to update the House on the status of that dispute . to address the report first , the council have take important initial step forward on its improvement journey , and be work constructively with commissioner . it have make significant progress on address historical equal pay issue and fix the foundation of governance . the leader , Councillor Cotton , and his group be take the difficult decision to get the council back on track , and the commissioner have recognise his calm leadership through stormy water . the new manage director , Joanne Roney CBE , have bring a steady hand , and be begin to make permanent senior appointment that will contribute to much - need stabilisation . the council have also achieve a breakthrough by reach an agreement to settle the outstanding claim and end the ongoing equal pay saga . it be also set to re - implement a strategy for the Oracle it system . those improvement be encouraging , but challenge remain . in the short term , commissioner oversight and close supervision will still be require to maintain momentum . there be a difficult road ahead on key aspect of the good value regime — on governance and culture , financial management and service delivery — because substantial risk threaten the journey to reform and recovery . as member will know , there be a live industrial action in waste service , involve one of the three recognise trade union in that area . the Government will support the leader and his team in Birmingham , directly and through the commissioner , to move the council on from these historical issue . that support include an increase in core spending power for 2025 - 26 of up to 9 . 8 % , or £ 131 million . that figure include £ 39 . 3 million through the new one - off recovery grant , which illustrate this Government ' s commitment to correct the unfairness in the funding system . we have also put in place an in - principle agreement for exceptional financial support total £ 1 . 24 billion . turn to the waste dispute , council deliver over 800 vital service that make a huge difference to million of people across the country . however , it be accept that for many , the most visible and universal service be the collection and disposal of household waste . member across the House will know that the current industrial action in the city be cause misery and disruption to local people , and I know that hon . member whose constituent be affect will be acutely aware of that disruption . from the outset , I want to be clear that the statutory intervention be lead by commissioner , and Ministers can not legally intervene in this industrial action . however , I have be in regular contact with the leadership of the council throughout this , as they have seek to find a resolution in which the reform need to build a sustainable council be still undertake , and the waste collection service return to function normally , in the way that Members would expect . this situation be cause public health risk to the city ' s most vulnerable and deprived resident . as a result , Birmingham have today declare a major incident , so that it can use the mechanism that it need to well manage the impact on local resident . I support that decision , and I will back local leader in bring the situation under control in the week to come . well - establish arrangement be in place to enable local area to escalate issue when they need support , and the Government be monitor the situation closely . this be a local issue , and it be right that the key public sector partner in Birmingham lead on it . if leader in Birmingham feel that tackle these issue would require resource beyond those available to they , and request national support , we of course stand ready to respond to any such request . this government will always back local leader and give they the support that they need , not swoop in to criticise or take over from Whitehall . we will not hesitate to give support in any way that Birmingham leader need . as Parliament would expect , a meeting will take place with the leadership of the council , the commissioner and other key local partner to ensure that we be do everything we can to support and protect public health . it be in the interest of all party and , most importantly , for the benefit of Birmingham ' s resident that this industrial action be bring to a close in a meaningful and sustainable way as soon as possible . we encourage all party to redouble their effort to get around the table and find a resolution . any deal to end industrial action must maintain value for money and ensure fit - for - purpose waste collection service , without create or store up liability for the future . all party recognise that Birmingham ' s waste service have be in urgent need of modernisation and transformation for many year , so any deal reach must not repeat the mistake of the past . practice in the waste service have be the source of one of the large equal pay crisis in modern UK history , result in cost of over £ 1 billion to the resident of Birmingham . this situation simply can not continue . I support the council on its journey to create the sustainable , fair and reliable waste service that resident in Birmingham deserve . we will support the council in resolve its historic issue and establish the leadership , governance and culture that will drive good - quality public service for the people of that city , so that it can take its rightful place with confidence as one of our great UK city . as the council move to the next stage of intervention , I will continue to work with the council , commissioner and the wide local government sector to understand how we can well ensure that resident get what they need from their local council . I will monitor progress , as I have do since the general election , to ensure that continuous improvement lead by the council can be secure . as I be sure the whole House would expect , the commissioner arrangement will need to remain in place while the situation in Birmingham be so fragile . the commissioner have a vital role to play in support Birmingham ' s transformation , work hand in glove with local leader . the Government remain committed to work in genuine partnership with the city and its council , and I continue to encourage the council to strengthen its partnership with regional stakeholder , include Mayor Parker in the West Midlands combine authority , to support economic growth and financial sustainability . we be keen to promote growth and regeneration opportunity for Birmingham , and we be confident that as the council continue to work to fix the basic , while make progress against the milestone , local stakeholder will be encourage to work in partnership with the council to deliver a clear vision for the future . I look forward to continue dialogue with commissioner , the council and regional partnership , include Mayor Parker , on opportunity for growth in the region . a partnership approach with a clear vision will increase Birmingham ' s capacity to achieve sustainable growth . the people of Birmingham deserve a well - run , accountable and financially stable council with good public service , not least waste collection service . I be encourage by the council ' s leadership and commitment to the same , and I look forward to the council begin to demonstrate more ownership of its recovery , and to see evidence that it can deliver the last improvement that be require . I will deposit in the House Library copy of the commissioner ' report , which be be publish today on gov . uk . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . I be sure that the fact that both my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) and I table an urgent question on this issue play a part in the Minister come to the House today . he have say nothing on this matter for the 20 day in which it have be a live issue . it be shameful — a national embarrassment — that one of our nation ' s great city , our second city , find itself in such a bleak situation . as the Minister admit , the problem be of the council ' s own making . it be a result of the flawed deal with Unite back in 2017 , which lead to legal action over equal pay , but it be the people who pay the price . we have have mountain of rubbish blight the street of Birmingham for more than 20 day , and there be no end in sight to the dispute with Labour ' s union paymaster , Unite . almost every area be plague by overflow bin , rat the size of cat , and opportunistic fly - tipper exploit the chaos to turn open space into dumping ground . that be the reality of Labour in local government . from Edgbaston to Sutton Coldfield , from Yardley to Erdington , and from Balsall Heath to Sparkhill , the pile of waste grow even high . this be a public health emergency , as the hon . member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) have concede . even the Labour Mayor of the West Midlands have say that he be " feed up " with waste pile up and the street be filthy . that be why we call for a Cobra - lead response . this issue demand a co - ordinate effort across local and national Government , harness the expertise of public health official , civil contingency professional and emergency service . we call on the Government to cut councillor allowance for the cabinet member who get Birmingham into this mess , and we urge the Government to appoint binman from the private sector to clear up Labour ' s mess . where be Labour ' s mps today ? I can only see one on the Government Benches . [ interruption . ] okay , there be two here , out of 10 . while they have be campaign for an airport in Kashmir , we be propose workable solution . the Minister talk about the calm leadership of Councillor Cotton . what local resident need be action , not buzzword , both from the local leadership and from central Government . he say that Ministers can not legally intervene in this industrial action . be he honestly say that he have no influence with the union involve , Unite , which be complicitly hold the city hostage , and which contribute £ 10 , 000 to the Deputy Prime Minister ' s election war chest ? surely she be now duty - bind to pick up the phone and speak truth to the real power behind the labour throne , the union . incredibly , Unite be call on central Government not to live within its mean , but to make hundred of million of pound available to the council . be that something that the Minister be consider ? he talk about an increase of 9 . 8 % , or £ 131 million , in the council ' s core spending power for the forthcoming year . will he confirm that a significant part of that be be raise by mean of a council tax increase of 7 . 8 % , and that that be a clear breach of the Prime Minister ' s pledge to freeze council tax this year ? I pay particular tribute to Councillor Bobby Alden and the Birmingham Conservatives who , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coalfield , have be doggedly hold the council ' s incompetent leadership to account . they have clear solution to this crisis . now that Birmingham have today declare a major incident , lead to the availability of new mechanism , can the Minister confirm that he will meet they to ensure that those mechanism be consider ? I find it extraordinary that the Minister should say that Birmingham city council have not yet request national support . will he not insist that it do so immediately ? he also say that he would meet local leader and commissioner . give that this crisis have be ongoing for 20 day and counting , why have he not already meet those local leader , and when will he do so ? will it be this very week ? well , well . no one listen to that response would think that the Conservative Government have be in government for 14 year , and be in office when Birmingham have to come to they for financial support . but Birmingham be not alone , be it ? council be fall like domino because of the last Government ' s chronic underfunding . the Conservatives talk about Kashmir ; they leave a cash crisis that affect every council . every single council , whether it be Labour , conservative or liberal Democrat , be let down by the Conservative Government . the Conservatives can not even look their own council in the eye . when it come to reorganisation , local leader who be do what be need for their area and show local leadership have be be undermine by the national leadership . they be lion lead by donkey . beyond the party political nonsense that have be deploy , surely we can all agree that we care about the people of Birmingham and want this vital public service restore . surely we all agree that give the last government ' s intervention in Birmingham , the journey of improvement be fragile . yes , improvement have be make , but we have to maintain our course . the Conservatives must also accept that one of the big barrier to settle the council and give it long - term stability be the storing up of equal pay liability . resolve this issue be critical , not just for the council but for the people of Birmingham . I can assure the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) that regular conversation have be take place . that include a meeting with the council leader a couple of week ago , and there will be a further meeting this week . we have say that we will do what be need to help the council achieve what it need to achieve , and to get the service back on track . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will agree that that be the right approach , with local leader show local leadership and national Government provide the support that be need . bizarrely , the hon . Gentleman refer to council tax increase . the council tax increase in Birmingham last year , under the last government , be high than this year ' s increase . why ? because this Government have a clear eye on look after taxpayer and ensure that any increase be contain . how do we do that ? we do not do what the last Government would have do . we do not say , " just go to the wall and see what happen . " it be this Government who provide nearly £ 40 million of new money through the recovery grant for Birmingham , to ensure that it do not have to pass that increase on to local taxpayer . that be genuine partnership , with national Government and local government work hand in hand . be it not time that the previous Government accept their failing over 14 year in office and accept that the foundation of local government be leave weak , not strong , when they leave office ? will they now start put the interest of the people of this country ahead of political interest ? this bin dispute be cause chaos in the city , include in Birmingham Erdington . what discussion have the Government have with Birmingham city council regard not just the bin collection , but the impact on public health and the environment ? it be so important that we look at the health and safety of local resident in Birmingham . that be the crux of where we be : because the bin dispute have be go on for so long , the scale of uncollected rubbish be leave in the street be now pose public health concern , which be why the council have declare a major incident today . it be show local leadership , it recognise the public health implication , and it be work with local public sector provider . as I have already say , I will make sure that the Government stand absolutely ready to work with the council and to provide any support that it need , as part of a genuine partnership . order . before I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , I remind member that if they be seek to contribute in a statement , they must arrive on time . it be extremely discourteous to the Minister , and indeed to the House , to be late . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker — I run all the way from the top floor of Derby Gate , but I be not fast enough . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be an elect member of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council . the people of Birmingham have a right to receive decent service , and it be critical that the ongoing dispute be resolve as quickly as possible . like the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , we be concerned about the impact on public health and the environment , and urge the Government to confirm that when waste collection resume , it will be safely dispose of and recycle where possible , and not just give to the cheap bidder . fundamentally , the Conservative Government slash funding to local authority year on year , force council to do more with less and plunge so many , of all political stripe , into financial crisis . however , we be disappointed that the Government have not yet address some of the financial crisis , particularly around confirmation of the special educational need override , which I know council across the nation be really worried about , and which be make it more difficult for they to make decision about their future plan . we welcome the multi - year settlement , which I be sure the Minister will refer to , but we remain concerned about how effective they will be . two recent example give we cause for concern : the road funding , which appear to give local authority more money , actually cut England ' s road repair budget by 5 % ; and the employer ' s national insurance change , which promise to cover council ' cost for direct staffing in full , do not do so in some case , include for Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council . all that be underpin by a break council tax system that be regressive . in some area , the council tax base be totally inadequate to provide for the grow list of service , and the Lib Dems want to see a radical overhaul . Birmingham should serve as a lesson for the Government , because this matter be a result of the long - run equal pay crisis . what learning be they take from the situation in Birmingham , and what extra measure be the Minister introduce to prevent public health and community safety issue ? I be pleased to say that we be make sure that we deal with the waste pile up in the street and that the council get the support it need , but the hon . Lady be right to say that there be an interrelationship . this dispute do not sit in isolation ; it be part of wide consideration on equal pay , and we have to bear in mind that the cost of meet the equal pay liability for the people of Birmingham be £ 1 billion . there can be no step forward in this dispute that double down on the inherent problem that lead to the equal pay crisis that the city have face . these be sensitive negotiation , but it be important that the council continue to negotiate and that people get around the table to find a way through . the hon . Lady talk about the multi - year settlement that be be prepare for and the simplification of the funding mechanism , but she also mention redistribution . Birmingham and council like it have not find themselves in this situation in a vacuum ; it have be partly drive by central Government not distribute money in a fair way to deal with service need and deprivation , and it be very important that we get the money to where that deprivation exist . even under the current one - year settlement , Birmingham have have a 9 . 8 % increase — in cash , that be £ 131 million . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . the Birmingham bin strike mean that many of my constituent have not have their bin collect in week , and this week a constituent write to I to say that they have be bite by a rat . I have be raise the public health situation and call for the council to take emergency measure , so I do welcome the fact that it have declare a critical incident today . do the Minister agree with I that it be unacceptable that unite picket have be frustrate the council ' s contingency plan by block depot , and that it be time for Unite to accept the fair deal on the table ? seventeen people can not hold 1 . 2 million Birmingham resident to ransom . my hon . friend be right to say that the vast majority of the workforce of the service have agree a way forward , by one route or another — whether by take voluntary redundancy or accept a new way of working — and that this come down now to a small number of people who have not accept that . in the end , that be where the dispute lie . I do agree that a city can not almost grind to a halt because of such a circumstance in its waste collection service . I encourage all party — the local authority as the employer and the trade union — to get around the table , and focus on the big prize here . after almost a decade of uncertainty on equal pay , the council and the trade union have agree a position from which they can move forward together . that be a significant moment in which I think all party should take some pride . let we not spoil it by the action today that could undermine the equal pay negotiation that have be so successful . the Minister really can not get away with blame the last Conservative Government for this situation . labour ' s own campaign improvement board say : " budget cut and the size of the City be use as reason to explain the situation however , this do not hold up to scrutiny " . my constituent in the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , which be part of Birmingham if only for local government purpose , be absolutely furious at this late evidence of paralysis and incompetence under Labour . it follow labour bankrupt the city , rocket our council tax , seek to close our library and try to charge we for parking in our own park . do the Minister not think that we now need a judge - lead inquiry into the cause of the equal pay crisis , Birmingham ' s bankruptcy and this dreadful bin strike ? surely the people of Birmingham , Britain ' s second city , deserve well from the Labour party . I be afraid that the picture that the right hon . member paint of increase charge at a local level — whether for car parking or other type of charge , or the council tax go up in a way that some household will find difficult — be the story of english local government for the last decade , and Birmingham do not sit in isolation . in many way , the size of the local authority — the fact that it be the large local authority in Europe , not just in this country — go some way to explain how a ripple in one council of a much small size in Birmingham have a much big implication . the right hon . member talk about a judge - lead process . this situation do not need a judge ; it need judgment . the judgment be that , after so much progress have be make on equal pay , now be the time to resolve the dispute , settle it and allow the workforce to move on with fair pay for man and woman in equivalent role across the local authority . I be sure he agree with I that that be the way forward . my resident and constituent deserve well than the current scene in Birmingham . bin be not be collect , and the council be lose future revenue because commercial contract be be cancel . the reality be that bin service be not good enough even before the strike . when the strike end — and it will end — what assurance can the Minister give my resident that refuse and health service in Birmingham will be decent and fit for purpose ? may I respond to the comment of the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , whom I respect ? he seek to deny a share of the blame for his party , but will the Minister confirm that last year ' s 10 % council tax increase be sign off in no . 10 and the Treasury at the time and that , under the previous Government , Birmingham lose 40p in the pound , with the sharp cut of any unitary authority ? my hon . friend rightly set out how difficult the operating environment have be for local government and in particular for Birmingham . it be the previous Government who introduce the commissioner process , the previous Government who start the exceptional financial support process , and the previous Government who introduce the 10 % council tax increase in Birmingham . when we come into office , we be determine not to let Birmingham stand by itself and that we have a role to play . the recovery grant be our contribution to that . the benefit for local people be that we be now able to manage the impact on council tax payer at a local level in a way that , frankly , the previous Government do not seem to care too much for . how we move on from this point be what I think people in Birmingham want to know . how can we clear up the mess that have be leave on the street ? how can we restore a waste collection service that deliver for the people of that great city ? how can we have an equal pay agreement that really hold , and be not unpick by a short - term agreement just on the current crisis ? as I say , I think the council have do a good job in navigate very choppy water , but it be not at the other end of they yet . the improvement journey for Birmingham will take some time . it require a clear eye on the end that everyone be try to work towards . when the Minister describe this as a local matter , it be clear to I that his Government be wash their hand of the problem . that be not good enough . the resident of Aldridge - Brownhills , which be on the edge of Birmingham , see and hear what be go on and we do not want the problem come over to we — we do not want the squeaky blinder in Aldridge - Brownhills . what we do want be the Minister to get this problem sort out and get those bin empty for resident . it be quite simple . I say that this be a partnership . of course , Birmingham city council , as the employer in this trade union dispute , have to negotiate with the trade union and the workforce to get those service back . that be a statement of fact , not an opinion . the question be then : what can we do , as a national Government , to support local government to achieve that ? we have maintain support . the commissioner , appoint by the previous Government , be in place . we have provide additional financial support — not just to Birmingham — with £ 5 billion of new investment in local government , bring the total settlement to £ 69 billion . as I say before , £ 40 million alone be for the recovery grant for Birmingham , so I feel the Government be do as much as we can , but we always stand ready to do more if need . over 14 year , Birmingham city council lose £ 736 million of funding under the previous Conservative Government . do the Minister agree that that be a big recipe for the situation we be in now ? do he agree that both side , the council leadership and the trade union , need to put public rhetoric to one side , get around the table and sort this dispute out ? if we look at the progress make on equal pay , the trade union and the local authority work in partnership to agree a way forward . in the end , they recognise that they all care about the same thing : they care about the people of Birmingham , about the workforce and about the long - term viability of the local authority . when common interest be apply , people can find a way through . I hope , go forward , that all interested party can get around the table , find a way through and get the bin empty . resident of Birmingham will have hear the Minister talk about monitoring , oversee and review what be happen . what they want to hear be what the Minister be go to do . can he make it clear that if the talk be not agree , there be no return back to work and the bin be not empty , he will intervene and throw all the resource that be require to break the strike and ensure the bin be again empty in Birmingham ? there be a difference in tone between resolve the strike and break the strike . we absolutely stand ready to support the council and the workforce more generally , who do want the situation resolve as many who work for the council also work in the city . they take pride in be local public servant and they want the city to be proud of the council in return ; for many , that be be test . we absolutely stand ready to work with the council and find a way through this issue . the council be work hard to resolve it ; it understand that people be angry and frustrated , and that , from a public health point of view , it just can not continue . Chelworth Road in my constituency be a road of two half : on one half of the road , which be in the Wythall division of Worcestershire , the rubbish be collect ; on the other side , which fall under Labour - lead Birmingham city council , the rubbish be pile high , council tax be go up by 21 % and a major incident be be declare . Labour be deliver rubbish , while the Liberal Democrats be prance around on their hobby horse on social medium . the Minister talk about priority , include put resident first and deliver value for money , but surely this be further proof that only conservative council will deliver on those priority . will the Minister tell we at what point he will step in to get those bin collect ? the hon . Gentleman be try to set up the good council and the bad council by party politic , but I be afraid that have be exhaust . the previous Government do this all the time : they would parade council of a different colour around for shame , whatever the issue , while for one of their own they would just hope that everything would move on and that nobody would notice . we be not interested in do that . this be about a new partnership , where national Government and local government work together to resolve these issue . if a conservative council find itself in trouble — there have be some , I should say , and there may be more in the future — I be not go to name and shame it and parade it around in the way the hon . Gentleman be try to do today . we stand ready to work with council of all political party in the interest of the people at a local level , because that be what matter . may I give the Minister some friendly advice and suggest that he do not try to write this off as a little local difficulty ? I be half expect to hear he use the phrase , " Crisis , what crisis ? " he can not be blame for not remember the winter of discontent — use the wonder of Wikipedia , I see that it happen a year before he be bear — but I can assure he that the Callaghan Government and the Labour party never shake off the pungent smell of the rubbish piling in the street on their watch . he really do not want to have the same thing happen to he . I will tell the right hon . Gentleman what stink : hear conservative mp line up as if they be not in government for 14 year and create the condition for this to happen , while the foundation of local government be erode . with that record , I would honestly keep the advice to myself if I be he . we have Birmingham Labour mps campaign for a new airport in Pakistan ; meanwhile , we have rat the size of cat feast on a month of rubbish in Birmingham , courtesy of Labour ' s trade union friend . my simple question to the Minister be this : when will this rubbish be clear ? we both share the intention and ambition that it will be clear as soon as possible . there should not be any further delay in reach an agreement when it be quite clear that the volume of waste to be collect be prove to be a waste hazard . with his background as a councillor , the hon . Gentleman will know that it be for the council , as a local employer , to resolve this matter with the trade union by agreement . that be what we want . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill consideration of Lords message I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 1b , 2b , 7b and 8b , and by Lords amendment 15b , 15c , 15d and 15e to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords non - insistence on their amendment 15 . if any of those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 1 - determination of additional multiplier I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1b . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 2b , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 7b , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 8b , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 13b , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 15b to 15e , and Government motion to disagree to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords non - insistence on their amendment 15 . I be grateful for the opportunity to consider the Lords amendment table in lieu of those to which this House disagree . I reiterate my thank to member of both Houses for their continue diligence in the scrutiny of these measure . the Bill make provision to enable the introduction of permanent low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure business from April 2026 , end the uncertainty of the temporary RHL relief . the RHL relief stopgap measure create uncertainty for business , as well as a significant fiscal pressure on the Government . this Government be commit to address that in the Bill . the Government face the significant challenge that we must balance the book , so we can not and should not make tax cut without ensure that those tax cut be fund . the Bill therefore make provision to enable the introduction of a high multipli for all property with a rateable value at or above £ 500 , 000 , ensure that the permanent tax cut from RHL property be sustainably fund from within the business rate system . the Bill will also help to deliver another of the mission set out in the Government ' s manifesto : break down barrier to opportunity . it will remove eligibility for charitable rate relief from private school that be charity in England . as I have say before in this House , the Government believe in parental choice but be also determined to fulfil the aspiration of every parent to get the good education for their child . to eliminate the barrier to opportunity , we need to concentrate on the broad picture towards the state sector , where — let we remember — over 90 % of child be educate . the revenue raise through the removal of charitable relief will help to deliver our commitment to education and young people and will help we to meet our overarching mission of break down barrier to opportunity for all . lord amendment 1b and 7b seek to allow the Treasury to exclude healthcare hereditament from the high multipli through regulation . lord amendment 2b and 8b seek to allow the Treasury to exclude anchor store from the high multipli through regulation . the amendment be unnecessary , because the power that they seek already exist in the Bill . let I be clear : the power in the Bill will already allow the Government , should they so choose , to exclude certain property from the high multipli . this be not the intention that I have set out ; the Government ' s intention be that the high multipli will apply to all property at or above the £ 500 , 000 threshold to ensure that local multiplier can be adequately fund . I urge the House to reject the amendment , because they be not require and they duplicate power that already exist in the Bill . lord amendment 13b , table by Lord Thurlow , would require the Government to " undertake a review of how the provision in this Act may affect business whose rateable value be close to £ 500 , 000 . " the amendment would require the review to be lay before Parliament within six month of the day on which the Bill be pass . it also specify that the review " must consider the merit of a separate Use Class and associate multiplier for retail service provide by fulfilment warehouse that do not have a material presence on local high street , to apply in England . " we have previously consider two similar Lords amendment , and our position have not change . the amendment be unnecessary . the " Transforming Business Rates " work that be under way recognise the cliff edge in the business rate system and recognise that it may act as a disincentive to expand . I reiterate the assurance that I have previously provide to the House : the Government be already look at this precise issue . the second part of Lords amendment 13b would require the Government to undertake a review examine the merit of a separate use class in business rate and an associated multipli for warehouse that cater for retailer without a material presence on the high street . as have be set out , the Government be already explore that objective through the project that have be mention . the " Digitalising Business Rates " project will allow we to match property - level datum with the business - level datum hold by HM Revenue and Customs . this will improve the way in which we target business rate . the Government therefore remain of the view that the amendment be not require . I urge hon . member to disagree to it . the Government be fully commit to transform the business rate system . this be simply the first step in a wide programme of change in a system that be long overdue for reform . as the Chancellor set out in the spring statement last week , the Government will publish an interim report set a clear direction of travel for reform , with further policy detail to follow at the autumn Budget . reform to the business rate system will be phase in over the Parliament . finally , amendment 15B to 15e seek to move the measure to remove the charitable rate relief from private school from one that be be make by Parliament through this Bill to one that the Secretary of State would make through regulation , subject to the affirmative resolution procedure for that statutory instrument . the Government be commit to deliver on our manifesto commitment , and part of that be remove the charitable rate relief from private school to raise revenue to help deliver on our commitment to young people and education , include the in state sector where , as I say , most child be educate . the Government ' s view be that this be a matter for Parliament to decide , which be why we have invite Parliament to do so through this Bill . therefore , the amendment be unnecessary , the Government can not accept they , and we ask the House to disagree to they . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank their noble lordship for their diligent further consideration of the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill and for the new amendment they have pass to address their concern with the legislation . these change shine a spotlight on Labour ' s muddle priority , expose an approach that punish aspiration , squeeze business , and increase the cost of live for consumer and the cost of do business . this very week , we will see the new job tax introduce and business rate hike . the Employment Rights Bill be come down the line , which be of great concern to many private sector business , and consumer will consequently see high price and low wage . tomorrow , we will also see a hike in council tax , energy price , water bill , broadband and the BBC licence fee . I will address the four primary group of amendment in turn . first , Lords amendment 1b and 7b tackle the proposal to levy a high multipli on medical , dental and other healthcare setting . the amendment would prudently protect all healthcare premise — occupy or vacant — from the high multipli , address a glare flaw in Labour ' s Bill . for too long , we have caution against their detachment from practical governance , but now it be undeniable : rather than target the untaxed profit of internet giant as pledge , they be heap cost on to hospital and GP surgery . it be baffle that labour ' s so - call reform of the rating system would burden healthcare at all , let alone do so while they plan to hike national insurance on job tomorrow to fund the NHS — only to claw it back today by tax those same health service . just yesterday , the Government pledge to funnel more cash into the NHS by tax job through national insurance hike , yet today they turn around and tax the NHS itself via business rate . it be a fiscal farce — a two - faced assault on healthcare that undermine their own rhetoric . as Conservative Members have mention in recent debate , Labour ' s obsession with revenue grab over sensible relief be choke the sector we need most . do the shadow Secretary of State agree that there seem to be a disjointed approach , where the Health Secretary be ask for more healthcare in the community , whereas we will be ask anybody who move from a central location into the community to pay these additional taxis and rate ? the hon . member be right ; there be no logic to the Government ' s approach . they be give with one hand and take with the other , and they be make the kind of decision he talk about ever more difficult . lord amendment 2b and 8b address the rating regime for anchor store on our beleaguered high street . we echo the word of the John Lewis chief executive Nish Kankiwala , who warn that Labour ' s Budget be a " two - handed grab " at retailer that pile on national insurance increase while refuse to reform business rate as it promise to do . retailer face a £ 7 billion hit from these policy , with consumer brace for high price as a result . these amendment exempt anchor store — the vital engine of our town centre — from the high multipli . it be a lifeline that Labour seem determined to withhold . unoccupied anchor store would also escape this punishing rate , prevent empty shopfront from become permanent scar on our highstreet . set the threshold for the high multipli at £ 500 , 000 be a blunt instrument , as the Minister concede . I can assure the Government that this will have consequence for business that be not big tech giant . it will hit large supermarket , supermarket delivery and large department store , show that the Labour Government have not think it through . conservative Members have rightly decry Labour ' s neglect of retail , and they be right . the Leader of the Opposition have rightly highlight that Labour ' s rate multipli fiasco be kill off the high street while real reform be dodged . business face a double whammy of high taxis and no certainty thank to a Government who be more interested in punish aspiration than power growth . labour ' s failure to shield those business betray the shopkeeper , the worker and the family who depend on thrive high street , not ghost town . labour be put both those cost on retailer on the high street . exempt anchor store from the high multipli would help support our high street . be unoccupied anchor store not subject to the high multipli , those business would have less of a strain on they when it come to make decision on what they be to do with their premise . support business ' ability to plan for the long term be something that we must consider in all legislation and policy . our concern about the Bill be share by KPMG , which describe the Government ' s plan to change the business rate system , as set out in the Bill , as create uncertainty for business when consider the liability that they will need to factor in to forward planning . turn to Lords amendment 13b , we confront yet another symptom of Labour ' s ill - conceive assault on business . picture this : a thriving firm with premise value at £ 495 , 000 dare to invest in its future with , perhaps , a modest expansion , new equipment or a refit to stay competitive , and that ambition tip its rateable value just over the £ 500 , 000 threshold . what be the reward under the Bill ? a staggering jump in business rate from roughly £ 175 , 000 to £ 325 , 000 — a near doubling of its tax burden overnight . that be not fairness ; it be a trap and a punitive cliff edge that snare the aspirational and mock the very notion of fairness . there must be great accountability for these new multiplier and tier , which threaten to crush business under arbitrary threshold . the Lords be absolutely right to demand a review by the Secretary of State to probe the real - world impact of the change , especially on firm teeter near that £ 500 , 000 mark : business that employ our constituent , anchor our community and drive our economy . by mandate consultation with sector expert , the Lords amendment would ensure that future decision on business rate be root in evidence , not ideology , offer Parliament and Government a chance to course - correct before more livelihood be sacrifice to labour ' s reckless tax experiment . the final group , Lords amendment 15b to 15e , relate to perhaps the most objectionable part of the Bill : the levying of business rate on independent school . let I reiterate the opposition ' s view that education should never be tax . over the weekend , the Times publish a number of alarming story outline the impact that vat on school fee have have on family . it tell the story of Leanne , a self - employ accountant who work between 5 am and midnight seven day a week to pay for the increase in cost to her disabled son ' s education that have come as a result of level vat on school fee , which be exacerbate by business rate on independent school . the same article highlight a study that have show that one in five family with a child with special educational need and disability who attend a private school have already remortgage their home ; one in eight have sell their home altogether . that be before business rate have be levy . as I have already highlight , the Bill will also levy business rate on nursery school and sport facility on the site of a private school that be use by the general public . this measure be simply wrong , and I agree with the other place that the statutory instrument require to bring in the regulation should be vote on by both house before such measure can be introduce . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . here we go again . this be very similar to what we speak about last week , so I will again put on record my thank to the noble Lords for their work in push forward the amendment from the other place . we welcome the business rate reform and look forward to a far more substantial overhaul of the system . however , we be deeply concerned about the proposal for hospital . lord amendment 1 seek to exclude hospital and it be so disappointing that that be not accept . in my area , in Dorset , both Poole and Royal Bournemouth hospital would be catch by the £ 500 , 000 rateable value rule . poole hospital have a rateable value of £ 2 . 1 million and Bournemouth ' s be £ 3 . 3 million . world - famous hospital , include Great Ormond Street , the Royal Marsden and England ' s old hospital Barts , would all be catch up . the Government have rightly be proud of the early delivery of extra NHS appointment , but keep hospital in the Bill risk real problem for local council which might find themselves have to take difficult decision to take the hit and not charge their hospital the high amount . to take away the discretion altogether , I ask Ministers please to remove the provision from the Bill so that hospital do not pay twice . I share the concern of the shadow Minister regard the business that be on the cusp of the £ 500 , 000 threshold . the impact of flip just over from the low to the high multipli could be profound . so many business be already on the cusp , give the national insurance increase , the living wage and the impact of the Employment Rights Bill . the additional worry about tip over into the high threshold could see many fail to invest in their business for the future . I will keep this brief , because we know where we be . we too do not agree with the taxation of education and we continue to support the Lords amendment to remove private school from the legislation . the main reason that we feel that way be that we know that many parent of child who have additional need choose the private sector because it be so difficult to get what they need in overcrowded school that be fall apart at the seam . we therefore fundamentally disagree with the principle of tax education . the Government have make a good start on the Bill . we want to see a much more fundamental review of business rate . there be a long way to go , but we think that the amendment , if accept , would demonstrate a Government who be listen . at a time when trust in the Government need to be build , a government who listen to sensible amendment would be most welcome . I thank the Government for bring the Bill forward , but I have to put on record some of my concern — the Minister will not be surprised . he know that it be never mean in an aggressive way ; I put thing forward in this way because it be important that my constituent have a chance to express themselves through I in this Chamber . first , I echo the concern of the shadow Minister and the Liberal Democrats spokesperson in relation to hospital and medical and dental school . I have some concern over how that will trickle down , as it will inevitably , and put pressure on sector where it do not need to be . the job of those three area be to ensure that our hospital can deliver the care and our medical and dental school can produce the student with the expertise and knowledge to be the next generation of those who look after we . my major concern , however , be about private school . I know the point have be echo many time , but I can not let this occasion go without make my remark , on which I have seek the direction of Madam Deputy Speaker and other party . member will be aware of the issue with private school , and I have speak about it on numerous time to put forward the argument for the faith school in my constituency . parent scrimp and save to ensure that their child can go to those school and have the standard of education that they wish for they , and they have ask I to put that on record . the reason I persist in raise the issue be that I truly believe that some people of faith will be far disadvantage when the Bill go through . I know that that be not the Government ' s intention , but it will be the reality , and for that reason I must put it on record . although the rating provision will not apply in Northern Ireland per se , the disadvantage to our sector remain in the removal of the tax consideration , which will affect school in Northern Ireland . that be where the issue be . for the mainland , the effect be quite clear , but school in Northern Ireland will be affect as well . I wish to be clear that I oppose these provision on behalf of faith - base school on the mainland as well , because parent of child at those school want the same as those who speak to I . I be a very proud member of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , and I believe that that extend to parent ' freedom to educate their child with a view to how their faith be work into that education . lord amendment 15 have be refer to by the shadow Minister and by the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) . for many parent , confidence that their faith will not be dismantle in the classroom be worth the financial burden of pay into their child ' s education , but that be be deny by this legislation . I believe that they all deserve the opportunity to educate their child in a way that they wish , for which they will probably pay handsomely , but these proposal will adversely affect parent ' freedom to educate their child in their religious belief . the option to home - school be one that parent may not have consider previously , yet may now feel be the only financial option available for they . those parent may not feel qualified or equip to deal with the skill that be vital to home - schooling , yet believe there to be no option as they simply can not afford to pay the uplifted fee . that be the unfair burden that fall on the shoulder of those parent . I firmly believe that the Government disagree with almost every Lords amendment because the Lords amendment interfere with the public revenue and affect the levy and the application of local revenue . the Commons do not offer any further reason , trust that this reason may be deem sufficient . basically that mean , " we need the money . " I have be a Member of this House for almost 15 year and an elect representative for some 40 year as a councillor and a member of the Assembly , and never , ever have I believe that money be the bottom line , and I do not believe that many right hon . and hon . member believe that . we can not take faith - base education out of the hand of a certain class of people to punish those high - class school with swimming pool . let I assure the House that Bangor Independent Christian school , with its Sunbeams nursery school , have no pool . Regent House prep in my constituency have no swimming pool either . there be small primary school that will have difficulty operate when these regulation come into force , and that be simply not right . I know that the strength of the Labour Government mean that this Bill will pass , but I be urge individual mp across the House to consider who will be punish and to urge the Government to review this tax raid on education , even at this late hour . we believe in the right to live one ' s faith , and we can not tax that right out of reach . that be where this Bill have go wrong , and have divorce itself from the reality of the people that I represent . I think I address the majority of the point in my opening speech that have be raise subsequently , but I thank member for their contribution . we have hear the Opposition ' s concern that the multiplier do not deliver on the state intention of the policy as announce in the Budget . we clearly do not agree with that position . at the Budget , the Government announce their intention to introduce two low multiplier for qualify retail , hospitality and leisure property , to end the uncertainty of the annual retail , hospitality and leisure relief . also , as I set out in my opening speech , the relief be a temporary stopgap measure . of course , it have be extend year on year , but it do not provide the certainty that business require . it have create a cliff edge . during our last session — I can not remember when it be ; it feel like it be yesterday — the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) seem to acknowledge that the cliff edge that be build in the previous system be provide uncertainty to business and their ability to plan ahead . he must surely welcome the fact that this new lower multipli — this permanent relief — give all business , whether they be retail , hospitality or leisure , the long - term security that they have be ask for and , importantly , in a way that be sustainable and self - financing through the business rate system . through the Bill , the Government be take step to address all the issue that have be outline . the choose approach be both appropriate and prudent , and the challenging fiscal environment that the Government face require it . any tax cut must be appropriately fund , under our commitment to sound financial management , so the Government intend to introduce a high multipli for all property with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 and above . it be important to say this to settle some of the argument : that will affect less than 1 % of property in England . Less than 1 % will pay more , but that will fund the low multipli , as we all recognise . that will help our town centre and our high street , and it be what we need to do . this approach deliver on the policy set out in the Budget , and on our manifesto commitment to transform the business rate system to make it fair and fit for the 21st century , and to protect the high street . on the comment about the multiplier for the healthcare sector , of course health provider be subject to the same business rate regime . that have be the case for 25 year , since the Crown Estate end its exemption ; member will know that . they will also know that the financial support give to the national health service this year be a record £ 22 billion , so that it could deal with the legacy that this Government be leave , which be , importantly , hold the country back . that £ 22 billion be go where it be need , and of course any decision about future financing be a matter for the Treasury at the appropriate point . on the review of the £ 500 , 000 threshold , we have already say that there be provision in the Bill to address that . the Minister say that the solution that he have alight on meet his manifesto commitment , but his manifesto say , " this new system will level the play field between the high street and online giant " . that be not what the provision do — not exclusively . he know that it levy extra taxis , extra business rate , on high street store , large department store , supermarket , football stadium and many other . they be not online giant . the rating system adequately reflect the scale of property . Less than 1 % of property in the business rate system will use the high multipli . that will fund the tax break for those on the high street that will use the low multiplier . in the evidence session — the hon . Gentleman be there — we hear retailer say , " of course , that will have an impact on our distribution centre , but we have so many store that be below the threshold . " that allow national retailer with multiple location to benefit ; in the round , they find themselves well off as a result of this policy . as for rebalance the situation for online retailer and those on our high street , that be exactly what this measure do . big distribution centre will pay for that relief . I once again thank hon . member for their contribution , but for the reason set out , I respectfully ask this House to disagree with the amendment before we . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1b . the House proceed to a Division . order . as the escalator in Portcullis House be still not work , I shall allow an additional two minute for the Division . Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Rebecca Paul the House have divide : Ayes 296 , Noes 170 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 1b disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2b . — ( Jim McMahon . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Rebecca Paul the House divide : Ayes 301 , Noes 104 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2b disagree to . lord amendment 7b and 8b disagree to . after clause 4 - Review : threshold effect Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 13b . — ( Jim McMahon . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Rebecca Paul the House divide : Ayes 301 , Noes 167 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 13b disagree to . clause 5 - Removal of relief Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 15b to 15e to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords non - insistence on their amendment 15 . — ( Jim McMahon . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Rebecca Paul the House divide : Ayes 302 , Noes 167 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 15b to 15e to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords non - insistence on their amendment 15 disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 1b , 2b , 7b , 8b , 13b , and 15b to 15e to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords ' non - insistence on their amendment 15 . that Jim McMahon , Gen Kitchen , Mark Ferguson , Harpreet Uppal , Emily Darlington , Kevin Hollinrake and Tessa Munt be member of the Committee . that Jim McMahon be the Chair of the Committee . that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - draft proposal for establish new executive agency " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must produce a report contain draft proposal for the establishment of a new executive agency , to be know as " Skills England " , responsible for the power transfer under this Act . ( 2 ) a copy of this Report must be lay before both Houses of Parliament . ( 3 ) within forty day of a report under subsection ( 1 ) be lay , the Secretary of State must ensure resolution be table , and move , in both Houses of Parliament to approve the Government ' s draft proposal . ( 4 ) if the draft proposal be reject by either House of Parliament , the Secretary of State must , within a period of six month , lie a report contain revise proposal before Parliament , and , within a period of forty day after lay the revise proposal , table a motion before each House of Parliament to approve the revise proposal . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may not establish an executive agency to carry out the function transfer under this Act until it have secure , through a motion under subsection ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) , the consent of both Houses of Parliament . ( 6 ) if a motion under subsection ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) be approve by both Houses of Parliament , the Secretary of State must make an annual statement in each House of Parliament on the work of the agency . ( 7 ) within twelve month of a motion under subsection ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) be pass , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report evaluate the effectiveness of the " Skills England " governance structure in deliver on the organisation ' s aim and objective . " — ( Ian Sollom . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to bring forward proposal for the executive agency , to be know as Skills England , subject to the approval of both Houses of Parliament . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — report on the impact on Higher Education — " ( 1 ) within one year of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish a report on the impact of this Act on the provision of degree apprenticeship in England . ( 2 ) the Report must include an impact assessment of the removal of apprenticeship levy funding for degree apprenticeship . ( 3 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before both Houses of Parliament . " new clause 3 — report on the impact on t level — " ( 1 ) within one year of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish a report on the impact of this Act on T - Levels . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) the involvement of Skills England in the administration of T Levels , include the curriculum and assessment method ; ( b ) an assessment of the independence of the accreditation of T - Levels , specifically whether there have be any involvement of the Secretary of State in this process ; and ( c ) an assessment of the extent to which T - Levels be meet local demand for skill . ( 3 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before both Houses of Parliament . " new clause 4 — creation of Skills England — " ( 1 ) a body corporate know as Skills England be establish to carry out the function transfer to the Secretary of State under this Act . ( 2 ) at the end of a year after the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation transfer to Skills England all the function transfer from the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education under this Act . ( 3 ) nothing in this section prevent the Secretary of State from transfer more function to Skills England under other enactment . " this new clause would put Skills England on an independent statutory footing rather than as part of the DfE . the role of ifate would be include in that plan for Skills England . amendment 4 , in clause 4 , page 2 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3b ) a group of person under subsection ( 3 ) must include a representative from an organisation that be the representative body for a sector . " Amendment 5 , page 2 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3b ) when approve a standard under subsection ( 3 ) , the Secretary of State must have regard to the reasonable requirement of — ( a ) industry , commerce , finance , profession and other employer regard education and training , and ( b ) person who may wish to undertake education and training . " amendment 3 , in clause 5 , page 2 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 6b ) when approve a standard under subsection ( 6 ) , the Secretary of State must have regard to the reasonable requirement of — ( a ) industry , commerce , finance , profession and other employer regard education and training , and ( b ) person who may wish to undertake education and training . " Amendment 1 , in clause 9 , page 4 , line 13 , after " England " insert " , include the impact of remove apprenticeship level funding for degree apprenticeship " . amendment 2 , page 4 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( c ) the impact of the exercise of the relevant function on the provision of level 7 apprenticeship in England " Amendment 6 , in clause 12 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) this Act come into force at the end of the period of one year begin on the day on which Skills England be create . " in consider the transfer of function from the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education , we face fundamental question about the Government ' s accountability and the future structure of our skill system . while modest in size , the Bill have far - reach implication for that system , and for million of learner and apprentice . it represent a significant centralising of power in the hand of the Secretary of State , without provide proper mechanism for parliamentary oversight or accountability . I have sit through many hour of debate on the Bill , during which Labour member have extoll the virtue of Skills England , but let I emphasise again that the Bill do not actually establish that body , as many assume that it would . it simply abolish ifate and transfer its function to the Secretary of State , an approach that risk create a governance vacuum in which there be no proper scrutiny or independent oversight . it be clear from the evidence receive by the Bill Committee that I be not alone in have those concern . the Association of Colleges , the Royal Society of Chemistry , the University of Winchester and the Institute of the Motor Industry all raise similar issue relate to governance and accountability in their write evidence submission to the Committee . as be note by many on Second reading , skill policy in this country have suffer from constant reorganisation and restructuring . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) have remind we several time that Skills England will be the 13th skill body to be establish in 50 year . give that history , employer , provider and learner desperately need stability and clarity . in its evidence , the University of Winchester warn : " the transfer of power from ifate to the Secretary of State for Education raise question about the independence of the propose Skills England regulatory body . " it also observe that in ifate , at present , " employer and academic come together to ensure that the standard be industry relevant , current , and academically rigorous . " the Skills Federation raise similar concern : " the clause in the bill which transfer power from IFATE to the Secretary of State risk shift the development of standard far away from employer demand . " it also say : " too much centralisation lead to a lack of focus on sector need " . do my hon . friend agree that the new clause would help college such as Bridgwater and Taunton college , the big provider of apprenticeship in England ? will he join I , and other member , in encourage those college on their path towards award their own degree ? I entirely endorse what my hon . friend have say , and I certainly encourage those college on their path . as I will explain , my new clause will enable Skills England to support they more fully . equally concern be the need for effective cross - departmental co - ordination . skill policy do not exist in isolation . skill England need to work with , among other , the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council on future workforce need , the Migration Advisory Committee on reduce reliance on overseas worker , the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on green skill , the Department for Work and Pensions on employment programme , the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology on priority sector , the Department of Health and Social Care on workforce planning , and , follow the Chancellor ' s spring statement last week , the new defence growth board on critical skill for our defence industry . in the past , the hon . Gentleman have mention the construction sector . we welcome the news that the Government will build 1 . 3 million house , but that require builder , plumber , carpenter , electrician and plasterer , and they must be train , so that they can do that job well . do he feel that his new clause will enable the building of those 1 . 3 million house ? I would hope that well scrutiny and accountability in Parliament would help with deliver what be require , and hold the Government to account when it come to keep their promise . on the cross - departmental work that I mention , the lack of a publish framework for Skills England as we consider the Bill be deeply concern , and what we have see so far suggest a structure that be heavily Department for Education - centric . without statutory independence and appropriate seniority , Skills England will struggle to drive the cross - departmental co - ordination that member on both side of the House agree our skill system need . I be listen carefully to what the hon . Gentleman say . he be , of course , right that the measure would represent considerable centralisation , if it be not for the creation of Skills England . he have mention a number of Government Departments . do he think that ifate , a non - governmental body , have be successful in bring all their work together , and that a Government body will not be , or be he argue for something different ? I will come to my preference for an executive agency that fit what the Government want to do . that be the reason for my new clause , and I do not think that it need delay effort . ultimately , a statutory , departmental body would have more clout . on the basis of what we understand , at least , I think that the remit for Skills England be very different from the remit for ifate when it come to that cross - departmental working . this Government have just take bold action by abolish NHS England , the large quango in the world . part of the motivation for do so be the need to ensure that when something be not go right in the NHS , the buck do not stop with a quango that we back - Bench mps can not question directly , but with Ministers . that be well for governance and for scrutiny ; it mean that when the Health Secretary say that something be not go well enough , we can question he robustly and challenge he to improve . surely the hon . Gentleman see that the way to push Skills England to be as robust as possible be by have strong governance . there be different option , and I will come to this issue later . give the scale of cross - departmental working require , have Skills England sit outside a single Government Department be probably more effective . moreover , such body can be hold accountable effectively by Parliament , as we have see with some other quango . indeed , I believe the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council will be set up as a statutory independent body when time allow , and I suggest that Skills England be of the same order of magnitude . beyond the concern about accountability and cross - Government authority , there be practical , operational risk to the approach lay out in the Bill . the Skills Federation warn in its evidence that " there be a key risk that transfer of function from ifate will become the key focus for the set - up of Skills England and less attention ( and potentially resource ) place on achieve the overarching aim . " there be significant concern that the broad strategic purpose of Skills England could be lose in the rush to transfer operational function . that concern be echo by Lord Blunkett , who suggest that " there be a real danger that ifate will swamp Skills England at birth . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 841 , c . GC98 . ] the Government ' s impact assessment also acknowledge risk , note that the transfer of function could " potentially cause a temporary slowdown in the growth rate of new apprenticeship and technical education course due to potential delay in the approval process " , which " may disproportionately impact disadvantaged learner . " in Committee , the Minister emphasise the urgent need to address skill shortage and say that delay " be not an option . " although we share the Government ' s commitment to address skill shortage urgently , I respectfully suggest that there be wisdom in heed the warning that the University of Warwick give in its evidence . get the foundation right be more important than hasty construction . in light of those concern , I table new clause 1 , which I propose in Committee . it provide a constructive solution to many of the issue that I have outline , and propose a clear pathway for establish Skills England as a dedicated executive agency within the Department for Education . as I say , my party ultimately believe that a fully independent statutory body with cross - departmental authority be the optimal approach , but we recognise the Government ' s preference for the executive agency model , so new clause 1 work within that structure but provide essential safeguard . under the new clause , the Secretary of State would produce draft proposal for establish Skills England within six month , lie the proposal before both house , secure parliamentary approval before establish the agency , provide annual statement on the agency ' s work , and evaluate its effectiveness 12 month after establishment . this approach strike the right balance between allow the Government to implement policy at their desire speed and ensure proper parliamentary scrutiny and meaningful stakeholder engagement . as I say , I table new clause 1 in Committee because I believe that parliamentary scrutiny be essential for an organisation with such far - reach responsibility . the Minister argue that the standard accountability mechanism for executive agency be sufficient . however , I contend that Skills England be not just another executive agency ; it be central to the Government ' s economic growth mission and to create opportunity for million of people . standard executive agency protocol be build for " business as usual " function , not for what should be transformative body at the heart of the Government ' s economic strategy . have a properly accountable Skills England , even as an executive agency , would ensure that employer voice remain central to standard development rather than be merely consultative ; that technical expertise be maintain and develop across economic cycle ; that Parliament maintain appropriate oversight for this critical area of policy ; and , crucially , that political short - termism do not override long - term skill plan . in Committee , the Minister argue against new clause 1 on several ground . first , she suggest that it would cause unnecessary delay in address urgent skill challenge . secondly , she point to the exist accountability mechanism for executive agency , include framework document and reporting requirement . thirdly , she emphasise that Skills England be already operate in shadow form and be poise to take these function when the Bill pass . let I address those concern . on the issue of delay , new clause 1 would require reporting and parliamentary approval within six month — a reasonable timeframe that would not significantly impede progress . as the Skills Federation note , proper planning for the transfer of function be essential for success , and parliamentary scrutiny would reinforce , rather than impede , the effective delivery of Skills England . the exist accountability mechanism be indeed important , but they be surely insufficient for an organisation of Skills England ' s significance . as the University of Winchester argue in its evidence to the Public Bill Committee , Skills England should be structure " to ensure and protect its regulatory independence from Government and other agency . " the framework document and annual report be important tool , but they be prepare by the Executive without any meaningful parliamentary input . skill England ' s current shadow operation be welcome preparation , but operate in shadow form , without parliamentary scrutiny or approval , only underscore the need for new clause 1 . important decision about structure , governance and priority be be make right now , without any oversight in this place . the Secretary of State indicate on Second Reading that the Government may review Skills England ' s status in 18 to 24 month to consider whether it need to be an independent statutory body , and the Minister confirm that timetable in Committee . but why wait ? why create uncertainty about the future status of an organisation that need to establish credibility with employer now ? it be worth note — as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , do in Committee — that the Government plan to put the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council on a statutory footing " when parliamentary time allow " , accord to their own documentation . this suggest that they recognise the value of key strategic body ' statutory independence , so why should Skills England be treat differently ? new clause 1 offer a constructive path forward , build on the debate we have already have . personally , I be disappoint that the Government oppose it in Committee , but I believe that the case for proper parliamentary scrutiny remain compelling . although my Liberal Democrat colleague and I ultimately believe that a fully independent statutory body would be the ideal model for Skills England , new clause 1 would work within the Government ' s executive agency framework to add essential parliamentary scrutiny and accountability . the Minister assure we in Committee that Skills England will have robust governance arrangement and clear line of accountability . if the Government truly believe in those principle , they should welcome rather than resist proper parliamentary oversight . if Skills England be to be the cornerstone of our skill system for year to come , even as an Executive agency with the Department for Education , we must ensure that it have the transparency , accountability and parliamentary oversight to withstand change in political priority and economic circumstance . I urge member across the House to support new clause 1 , which would strengthen the Bill and help ensure that the transfer of function lead to well outcome for apprentice , student , employer and the economy as a whole . I call Pam Cox . happy birthday ! [ interruption . ] do you wish to contribute , or be you go to celebrate your birthday on the back Benches ? sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be rather blow away by that . my birthday be actually on Saturday , but thank you so much . it be a pleasure to speak in favour of this Bill , as a member of the Public Bill Committee and of the all - party parliamentary group on apprenticeship . the Bill be vital because it pave the way for the creation of Skills England , a new and ambitious body that will bring a fresh urgency to the task of upskille our young people — and there be an urgency about this . as the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) say , Skills England will build on the extremely valuable work of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education , and I would like to pay tribute — order . could you be seat for a moment ? we be talk about the amendment to the Bill , not the overall Bill . the idea be to discuss the amendment and whether you disagree with they , but you need to bring your contribution in line with the debate this evening . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the issue be whether we should delay the introduction of this measure to allow more time to set up Skills England . a lot of preparatory work have already be do to set up Skills England , as we discuss quite fully in Committee , and we should get go on training up the carpenter , plumber , electrician and other apprentice that we all know we need . Derby be see a fresh boost to its city centre with a new performance venue , a restore marketplace and the Friar Gate good yard , which have stand derelict for 50 year , but be now be transform into 276 new home . what we do not want be for our ambition for our city to be hold back by skill shortage . do my hon . friend agree that , rather than the dither and delay propose by Conservative Members , we need to get on with this legislation so that we can train the next generation of bricklayer , roofer , plasterer , scaffolder and electrician that our country so desperately need ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , and I agree . this morning , before I travel to Westminster from Colchester , I visit JTL , a national organisation with a base in our city that train thousand of apprentice electrician and plumber , and I have similar exchange with they . so I very much agree , because the urgency I have mention be about their future — secure their future . we debate this in some detail in Committee , and the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire have outline the Minister ' s response . to my mind , those response stand . I be satisfied that we should not delay in set up Skills England , because the young people of Colchester — and , indeed , of Derby and elsewhere — simply do not have the time to wait . on that note , last week the Government announce plan to train 60 , 000 new construction worker to help build the 1 . 5 million home we will see go up in the course of this Parliament . move such as that and many other show that we be work at pace to reverse the many year of stagnation — will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not give way , if the hon . member do not mind . I hope we can work at pace today to pass this Bill . rise — order . be the hon . Lady take an intervention ? I be sit down . have the hon . Lady conclude her speech or be she take an intervention ? I have conclude . I want to make a short contribution to this Report stage debate , particularly in favour of new clause 4 and amendment 6 . on the train come up to Westminster , I type into my tablet " short ifate speech " , and every time I do so , it keep change it to " short irate speech " . unfortunately , I be not very good at irate speech — it be not really my thing — so I will make a slightly disappointed speech , but with a hint of optimism , because I hope this Minister may take this opportunity to do something of significant benefit for the technical and vocational education and training system in this country . I know why the Government come forward with the idea of a new quango — it be not even a quango , but a sort of semi - quango — call Skills England . they do that because they be go to have to talk to british industry about a lot of other thing . they know deep down that they would be do thing that be really very unpopular , such as the Employment Rights Bill and the massive hike in national insurance contribution and business rate , and that aspect of those thing be bad for employment and unpopular with employer . with Skills England , Ministers — then campaigner , but now Ministers — have come up with something they think business would really like and want . in truth , however , if the Government be go to fix the two big underlying issue in our system — the productivity gap we have in this country compare with France , the United States and Germany , and the parity of esteem we all say we want , and that the Conservatives do want , between academic learning and vocational learning — we need to make technical and vocational education well . we also need to make it simple and more appealing , but above all it need to be make well . that be entirely what the Sainsbury review — spearhead by the noble Lord Sainsbury , a Labour Lord — be all about . it be about give we a simple , more appealing system , lead by business , which would deliver the high quality of technical education . I take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about create parity between academic and technical education . would a useful step in the direction of attract people into the apprenticeship scheme be to ensure that they be pay the national minimum wage in line with their age group ? the truth be that there be always a balance about apprenticeship . of course , there can be abuse : in the past there be abuse of the apprenticeship system with the low rate that could be pay , although many employer pay the full rate to people of whatever age who be do apprenticeship . however , it be also true that provider be get four day a week — not five — of work from somebody , and a form of learning be involve . it be the same , with the opposite proportion , when someone be do a t - level , which be partly do at college and partly on an employer ' s premise . there be always a risk that if we make that gap too narrow , few people may be afford that opportunity in the first place . that balance have to be get right , but I take my hat off to all the many employer who have invest very strongly in their young people , particularly in the way the hon . Member outline . clearly , quality can not be guarantee just by the structure of the Government Department or Executive agency that oversee it , but quality be less likely if we get that structure wrong . the two key thing with ifate — key to this debate and for the amendment we be consider — be , first , its independence from the Government , and secondly , that there be the guarantee business voice . I be talk in the past tense already , but I mean that it be independent and there be a guarantee business voice . which Minister be not go to say , " we ' ll listen to business " ? of course , Ministers will say , " we ' ll listen to business . we want business to be at the heart of our plan and design they . " they will say that , but it be not guarantee in what the Government plan to set up , and just say they will listen be not enough . such independence give people , mean the employer , the young learner and everybody else , the confidence of know that the Government — and it might not be this government — could not erode the standard because they want to artificially increase the volume of people on those course . it have be a feature of the broad debate to have Labour colleague say , " we ' re go to get the number of people get apprenticeship up . " well , wahey , of course they be go to get the number up . that much be blindingly obvious . I be remind of a time in the past when many apprentice do not know they be on an apprenticeship , so loose be the requirement . the Conservative Government raise the minimum length of time for an apprenticeship and raise the minimum amount of time in off - the - job training . in college - base education , the Sainsbury review report that in many case qualification have become divorced from the occupation and sector they be there to serve . we be already see , with the change in the minimum length of apprenticeship from 12 month to eight month , the rowing back or erosion of that standard . there be plenty of training in industry that do not require a 12 - month minimum and there always have be , but if somewhere be go to have a short course , just do not call it an apprenticeship . that training be very worth while , but that do not mean it be the same thing . in Germany , which be the country people usually look to as the international standard on these matter , an apprenticeship typically last for two or three year , with two day a week — not one day a week — in college . in those two day a week , young people typically do a full timetable of what we in this country call general education or academic subject , as well as vocational education . in Germany , people can do an apprenticeship to become a food and beverage manager , but if they want to be a bartender there be not an apprenticeship for that role , because it do not take that long to train to be a bartender — they do another kind of training . in this country , we have come to a strange position with the apprenticeship levy . there be lot of lobby to count more and more thing as an apprenticeship , so they can be pay for out of the apprenticeship levy . that be not the right way around . already , we ask the word " apprenticeship " to do a lot . in most country , it mean young people age 16 , 18 or 21 . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I could not resist the hon . Gentleman . thank you very much — that be a niche view . the right hon . Gentleman be talk about how the apprenticeship levy create a straitjacket whereby there be a real value to what be be offer , but it perhaps should not fit into an apprenticeship . be that not precisely the aim of the Government ' s approach ? be he not advocate for precisely what the Government be suggest , which be , " let ' s make it more flexible . let ' s say it doesn ' t have to be a year there be value to investment of a different kind to an apprenticeship . " ? be he not argue in favour of what the Government be propose ? he be not , no ; he be say something different . of course there be value in all sort of training . in my working career , I do various stint of training but they be not call an apprenticeship . we do not have to call something an apprenticeship for it to be a worthwhile piece of training . already , we ask the word " apprenticeship " to cover a lot of thing . as I be say , in most country it typically mean young people start their career . here , it cover career starter , career developer and career changer . if anything , we ought to be think about how we can refocus and differentiate between the requirement that people have at different time of their career , and the requirement their employer have as well . the Bill be not about to fix that or address that , but I be hopeful — this be where I start — that the Government have indicate that they have hear the message on the two key element need when certify and specify qualification : independence and a guarantee business voice . new clause 4 would create precisely that independence . new clause 1 , which be move by the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , have a lot of merit . he put a great deal of thought into it in Committee , but the additional point about statutory independence be fundamental . if the Minister be minded to accept just one amendment — I hope she will accept two ; what do we think ? — it should be new clause 4 . I think everybody in this House want Skills England to succeed . as with so many matter we debate , we all broadly want the same end goal . amendment 6 be what I would call a breathing space amendment to make that success more likely . it would reinstate the one year that their noble lordship put into the Bill as it go through the other place , mean that Skills England would be operational for a year before it have to absorb IfATE ' s function . the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire go through some of the reason why . absorbing ifate ' s function be an enormous undertaking . I think the noble Lord Blunkett estimate that close to 200 people would come into the organisation . in his word from that debate , which we have already hear , ifate could " swamp Skills England at birth . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 841 , c . GC98 . ] Skills England have a much broad function than ifate . its broad strategic function be incredibly important and it be not small . they be different shape and size , if you like . Skills England will initially prioritise 10 sector : the eight growth - drive sector in the industrial strategy , as well as construction and health and social care , which be also list as essential to the Government ' s mission . so there be 10 sector to feed into the industrial strategy planning process . the noble Baroness Smith of Malvern have say that work be under way on eight of those , which beg the question , " what about the other two ? " on a big level , what about two of the three big volume employment sector , hospitality and retail , which , for a broad labour market strategy that include the skill we want in they , be essential ? my right hon . friend make an important point about the exclusion of a number of sector . there be a danger that Skills England will be very much tilt towards London and the south - east , ignore large area such as the midland and the north of England , which will suffer as a result of its very prescribed focus . my right hon . friend make a very important point , which stand on its own merit . to refer back to the previous intervention , as the MP for Bournemouth East in the south - west , I can assure the House that we be very excited about the prospect of extra construction come to our area . in fact , Bournemouth and Poole college tell I that it have 600 construction apprentice on its book , but that it be have to turn away hundred more . those be opportunity be lose . the college welcome the abolition of ifate and the speedy transfer of responsibility to Skills England . do the right hon . Gentleman not agree that we should listen to college such as Bournemouth and Poole college ? of course we should be listen to college such as Bournemouth and Poole college . we hear the Government announce early that thousand of people be go to go into construction , but then say that they could not do anything until they create this body and subsume the function of ifate into it . I do not see how all those thing fit together . yes , we want more people go into construction , and a long list of other sector too , but that do not necessarily mean an apprenticeship in every case . there be a whole suite of exist technical and vocational course , and T - level be still ramp up as well . on breadth versus depth , ifate have a huge range , with more than 600 occupational standard for apprenticeship , t - level and high technical qualification . skill England be initially look at a narrow set of sector , but have a much broad remit for they , so it do more than ifate . there be three big thing on its list . the first be to identify where skill gap exist , which be itself a very significant task . it may at first glance sound obvious , but it really be not . first , there be a question of what time horizon we be talk about . be we talk about today , or plan five , 10 or more year into the future ? more significantly , I be sure people would generally say that we could train more people to go into the social care sector . the issue be not so much whether we have the training course available , but whether people be willing and happy to go into the sector . that be a broad question . secondly , Skills England have to work across Government with the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council and the Migration Advisory Committee , as well , of course , as with the Labour Market Advisory Board , under the DWP . the MAC be a well - establish body , have be around for a number of year , that have a remit on immigration ; it will not necessarily have the same perspective as Skills England . as the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire rightly say , the ISAC be go to be give its own statutory footing , which beg the question of where in the hierarchy Skills England will be . we want this to be a body that be able to speak authoritatively right across Government . thirdly , Skills England be go to identify the training that should be accessible via the growth and skill levy . that , again , be a huge task . what can be fund from the levy be a huge strategic question . what specific skill should we rightly expect a firm to provide , and what should be generalisable skill for the economy ? even after all that , there be still the big question about supply and demand at college level — this may come back to the point the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) make about listen to college , on which he be absolutely right . we do not currently stop people do course because there be a surplus of people in such and such a sector and a shortage somewhere else , but some hard question be go to come up around the funding formulae for these thing to ensure that we do have enough people go into construction , social care and so on . my contention be that each of those function be enormous . amendment 6 would , therefore , perform a useful role . it be not about dither and delay , but about allow Skills England to establish itself and to carry out those key strategic function that it be there to do , and then to be able to subsume the function from ifate . it be a pleasure to follow the contribution of the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , who speak powerfully to their amendment . it may disappoint they to know that I will be speak against both new clause , as they risk undermine the speed with which we need to effect change in the sector . it be a privilege to speak in this debate on a subject about which I be very passionate , and as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on apprenticeship . the transfer of function to the Secretary of State and the creation of Skills England be one of the most critical reform this Government be due to bring about . it address one of the most damaging legacy of the previous Government : the fall in apprenticeship . this matter when we look at the structure of the Bill , which be why I be concerned about new clause 1 and 4 in particular . it also matter in constituency like mine in Peterborough , and in neighbour St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire , where we have see fall apprenticeship start , fall training and rise unemployment . Peterborough be a city with one of the high level of young people not in education , employment or training . this be not just the folly of opportunity lose and young people let down , but the story of a fail economy . I take the opposite view to that express by the right hon . member for East Hampshire , who seem to elevate the independence of Skills England as a virtue in respect of what it could deliver ; I see the independence of ifate as one of the tool that lead to its failure . the fact of its independence remove it from economic need , make it bureaucratic and mean it fail to address the need of business and other provider to get the flexibility and delivery of skill that we need . independence do not always guarantee success or the thing that we need . would the hon . Gentleman extend that principle to the academic route ? I have ask the Minister this question a number of time now . I do not think we would stand for anyone say that the standard and specification for a - level should be set in Sanctuary Buildings by the Department for Education . if we would not do it for a - level , why would we think it be right for t - level ? what be the answer to that ? I think we need a mixed economy in this area . the principle I elevate in this debate be speed , substance and bring business around the table , alongside provider and college — such as my excellent provider in Peterborough , ARU Peterborough , with its new university campus — to deliver the good and get the job do . my concern with new clause 1 and 4 and amendment 6 be that they elevate a level of independence that do not address the overall issue . in fact , many of the issue the right hon . member for East Hampshire describe in his speech be actually around delivery and political choice . have the Secretary of State and the Department establish Skills England will make it much more likely , in my view , that we deliver at speed on those challenge . however , I be sure scrutiny will come from all party of this House if that be not the case . our no . 1 mission be economic growth , spread across all part of the UK and build on a diverse base of industry and service . the Government have already make a powerful start , which could be undermine by these amendment if they cause further delay , with early work on the growth and skill levy to drive up standard and place , the move to functional English and math , foundation apprenticeship provide flexibility and a route in , and a £ 600 million investment in construction skill . I particularly welcome the reply from my right hon . friend the Minister for Skills , who have acknowledge in write answer the need for social mobility to be a factor that Skills England will consider , so that we can actually change people ' s life opportunity . this be something I be passionate about , and which the Co - operative Group and other employer I have talk to consider to be very important . this mission will fail without the urgency need to get the Bill pass and to get Skills England up and run . Skills England have already be set up in shadow form . give the urgency of the task , it provide the good of external industry leadership in its Skills England shadow board , which will move to a full board . it provide independence for the voice around the table , and therefore already meet the need that new clause 1 and 4 seek to address . it also focus on delivery and the speed with which we can get go to bring job and opportunity to all part of the country . the Government have already be clear , before these new clause and amendment be table , that the transfer of the institute ' s statutory function to the Secretary of State will introduce more flexibility to the skill system , which I wholeheartedly endorse . it will allow we to be more responsive to the need of employer , learner and the economy , which I also endorse . the Secretary of State will delegate these power to Skills England . I think new clause 1 and 4 risk delaying and create confusion , rather than aid purpose and delivery of what we need . I therefore oppose the move to create a separate executive agency or to bind Skills England before it be even create . we need to get go . this be not just a political slogan or the subject of debate in this House , but the message I hear from business , provider and school in Peterborough . we need a genuine partnership in place such as my community between college and employer to ensure that we be provide leadership at all level ; we need practical action and leadership , work together to improve life and our economy . the independence of ifate , as I say early , elevate it to a level that risk undermine the ability to get go quickly . let I provide an example . a few week ago , I meet MDS , a not - for - profit membership organisation in my constituency that be a pioneer in flexi - job apprenticeship and training in the food supply chain , work with some of the big name in the food sector to create a workforce for tomorrow . it be look to Skills England and this Bill to create the flexibility and opportunity that business and learner need . it would be sorry to see any delay or confusion over structure when it know what need to be do to get the job . it want this Bill . can the Minister say what additional funding and resource be available to help business to provide pre - apprenticeship training for individual who have be unemployed long term ? business want the Government and Skills England to do that quickly . they want to understand how , with sme and other , the Government be support the growth of flexi - job apprenticeship to help industry to attract new talent into the food and fresh produce industry . that be a direct criticism of ifate and the structure we already have , and there be concern that delay through new clause 1 and 4 will make it more difficult . as we have hear , Skills England will identify the skill gap in our economy and work with the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council and the Migration Advisory Committee to plug they . the direct link between the industry , the MAC and the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council will address our industrial need and purpose at the necessary speed . the new clause be not necessary . this be a Bill about skill and about address our skill shortage , and it need to get go . I support the Bill and oppose new clause 1 and 4 and amendment 6 . during their time in government , the Conservatives break our apprenticeship system and betray young people . the Liberal Democrats be thus call on the Government , if they be serious about growth , to fix the apprenticeship sector by invest in education and training , include by increase the availability of apprenticeship and career advice for young people . I wish to speak in support of new clause 1 , table by my hon . friend the Member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , which would require the Secretary of State to bring forward proposal for the Executive agency to be know as Skills England . there should be great emphasis on develop sector - specific skill that support the natural ability and interest of each student . I believe that we should focus on strengthen career advice and link with employer in school and college to allow student clear alternative step into a career that do not require they to go to university if that be not the good option . any business will tell we that the apprenticeship levy do not work . business can not get the funding that they need to train staff , so hundred of million of pound - worth of funding be return unspent , only to disappear into the Treasury . if that money be ringfence to boost the further education budget , it would at least benefit the employer that contribute , but it do not . I be glad that the Government be reform the current system , but I urge they to accept my hon . friend ' s amendment , which would require a clear plan for their new proposal . we must improve not only the quality of vocational education , include skill for entrepreneurship and self - employment , but pupil ' awareness of such skill as they make initial decision about their further education and career . I have speak to young people in my constituency who be undertake apprenticeship in the hospitality industry . they have speak positively about the opportunity to develop their skill while earn a wage . however , I have also hear that many apprenticeship job do not pay enough for people to meet their living expense . it be extremely important that young people be provide with a footing solid enough not to discourage they from pursue apprenticeship in their field of interest . I believe that the low minimum wage for apprentice should be scrap . we should ensure that apprentice be pay at least the same minimum wage as other employee their age . I constantly hear from small and medium - sized business across my constituency who be struggle with workforce shortage . we need to build capacity in the workforce and within the economy to drive growth and ensure that british business can hire people with the correct skill to allow industry to thrive . apprenticeship have a huge role to play in upskilling . although I be glad that the Government be take action to reform the current system , I urge they to accept new clause 1 , which would give we proper detail on what the new system will look like . apprenticeship could play a crucial part in address many of the staff shortage that business face , by equip people across the country with the skill that they need to thrive . the Liberal Democrats have call on the Government to truly invest in skill . I urge the Minister to accept the new clause . it be a great pleasure to speak in this debate . on new clause 1 , there be merit in the point that the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) raise . there be a legitimate question about the basis on which Skills England operate . many people want to see it be take seriously , but whether it will be take more seriously as an independent body or as part of the Government be a big question on which there be different opinion . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) say that the Government need to get serious , but adopt new clause 1 or not adopt it will not in any serious sense make the difference to whether the Bill be a transformational one . the new clause would make a very small amendment to a Bill that be fairly limited in scope , so we should be realistic about how much of a difference we be debate . there be some merit in the Government ' s argument that the drafting of the amendment would cause additional delay and would prevent Skills England , which already exist , from get on with take the necessary power . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) make some interesting point . it be always important to take seriously what he say ; he be a former Education Secretary and a serious man . have listen carefully , I have to say that many of the complaint that he rightly make about our fragmented and complicated skill system and the extent to which many employer have feel distance from it be entirely legitimate criticism , but be largely a commentary on the system bequeath to we by 14 year of the previous Government . the right hon . Gentleman consider it a criticism of this government that they have a policy that they think will be popular with business , but I see it as a virtue . as co - chair alongside my excellent hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) of the all - party group on apprenticeship , I have hear from business how much they welcome the great flexibility that the Government propose . it will be important to understand how Skills England will seek to ensure that great flexibility . there be real merit in degree apprenticeship , which my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) raise , but I also hope that Skills England will ensure far great provision at the bottom end of the scale — not just at level 2 and 3 , where take - up have fall dramatically since the introduction of the apprenticeship levy , but at level 1 . I would like to see the apprenticeship levy be use to support people who have come out of our school system with very few qualification , possibly have have an education , health and care plan . they be able to access work , but will need long to get up to speed in job . there be tremendous opportunity for level 1 apprenticeship to support people with special need from traineeship into the world of work , so I hope that the Government will consider they . the right hon . member for East Hampshire describe the merit of the german skill system , which be admire across the world , but it be important to say that it involve a far great cultural understanding . one of the way in which the Germans understand themselves be about their skill system and the value that they put into a craft or trade . achieve that be not just about the structure of our skill system ; it would require a complete reversal of our understanding in this country over the past 30 or 40 year . there be huge merit in much of the german system , but we can not simply adopt it and imagine that we will somehow achieve a cultural change . it need to be wrap up in the industrial strategy that the Government must continue to develop . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the Government envisage Skills England have a far wide scope than ifate . I welcome that , because one of the great failure of the system under the previous Government be that there be an array of unconnected body and initiative float around . he refer to the skill system , but right now I do not believe that this country have a skill system . what we have be an array of initiative without any coherence . I very much hope that in Skills England we have a body that will start the task of bring our very complicated and fragmented system together . I have no idea whether Skills England will be a success , but I be confident that it could be . the direction in which the Government be attempt to go , if they have the courage to follow it all the way , have the potential to bring about the change that we desperately need . we have a basic understanding of level 2 and 3 apprenticeship in this country , but we need much more coherent pathway through level 4 and 5 . the previous Government do a tremendous amount to promote level 6 apprenticeship , which be popular in some trade , but they mean get a degree six or seven year down the line , which be a hell of a long time . many thing could go wrong in someone ' s employment in that time — they might lose their job , or the company might cease to exist — and in any case they might not want to commit to six or seven year . have stop - off point at level 4 and 5 , so business understand that there be something beyond level 3 that do not necessarily look like a degree , would be tremendously valuable . I hope that the Government will look to do that . of course it be fundamental that we listen to employer , whether they be business or public sector employer , and that all of they feel that they have a stake in the skill system . I do not for a minute believe that the Government or Skills England will not want to listen to employer , who be entirely the arbiter of whether we have a successful skill system , but I do not think that a body have to be independent to listen to employer . there be a potential argument that a body within government would be well place to take a much more strategic approach than the independent ifate ever could . it will be useful to hear how the Minister anticipate Skills England reach out and listen to employer and business , particularly about which course will be appropriate for the growth and skill levy . they might not look like apprenticeship , but they will be crucial qualification that people will be able to work towards . I welcome the Government ' s decision to take forward many of the construction skill bootcamp . the Government quite understandably have question about the value of bootcamp ; a huge amount of the previous Government ' s adult education budget go in that direction . within the construction sector , there be real value to they , and I be pleased to hear from training provider in my constituency that they have be tell that the construction bootcamp will carry on . we often speak about the skill environment as though it be purely outside of here , but we member of Parliament be all employer , and we be all involve in skille up our staff . I be very pleased to say that my apprentice Ellie Chapman recently successfully complete her level 3 apprenticeship . she be not an apprentice MP but an apprentice office support worker , and she have do a tremendous amount in my office over the last 16 month . she be also top in her class at Chesterfield college . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you very much — and well do , Ellie . it be important that we walk the walk as well as talk the talk . I encourage other member of Parliament to consider whether they have a role for an apprentice in their office . on that happy note , I encourage the Government to keep go , and to listen to employer . it be really important that we get this right , because there be nothing more important for the success of our economy than have a more coherent skill system that enable we to make the very good of all our people . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate and to follow my hon . friend . I welcome this Bill and the establishment of Skills England . I oppose new clause 1 and 4 and amendment 6 . I do not agree with the amendment to delay , because we need action now . the Bill be a crucial step forward in addressing challenge feel across the country , particularly in south - east Cornwall . we need access to well - pay , stable employment close to home , so that people do not have to leave their community or take on debt just to access high skill and wage . in my area , transport connectivity be a barrier to employment . Cornwall and the south - west have be overlook and underfunde . the Bill represent labour ' s focus on crack on and deliver real change for people who really need it . I want to ensure that the Bill deliver for south - east Cornwall , and across the duchy and the south - west . there be already great apprenticeship scheme establish , but we must make sure that more of they be viable and accessible . that be what the Bill deliver . in the most recent full academic year of 2023 - 24 , there be 760 apprenticeship start in south - east Cornwall , but only 530 people successfully achieve their apprenticeship standard . of those 760 who start , the majority be age 25 or old , and the most common level of study be intermediate . I be very proud of those who achieve their apprenticeship standard , and I know there will be many more to come . however , I be concerned that our young people have not be able to access these opportunity as readily as should have be possible , and that those who take up apprenticeship under the previous Government do not always progress to a high level . the 760 apprenticeship start represent a significant drop from 2018 - 19 , when 1 , 070 apprenticeship scheme be start south - east Cornwall . the number continue to decline over the five year before the Labour Government take office , represent a 28 . 4 % decrease in apprenticeship start over five year . the Bill be a vital opportunity to reverse this decline , which be feel really strongly in south - east Cornwall , and to bring much - need improvement to our workplace , our economy and local skill . we need to remove unnecessary barrier and blockage in the skill system , so that we can respond more quickly to the need of apprentice , their employer and the economy . Skills England already exist in a shadow form , and it be time to bring it directly out into the light and make it work for those who need it most . I know that local resident and business in south - east Cornwall be concerned about stability and future opportunity . the Bill , with its establishment of Skills England , be an opportunity to deliver the stability that business need to plan their workforce , invest in skill development , and create quality job for local people close to home . by make the apprenticeship levy more flexible , we can ensure that fund be use effectively , support lifelong learning and provide structured training opportunity . through the alignment of Skills England with our national industrial strategy , we can promote co - ordinate skill plan across the country , while the focus on devolution mean that local solution can be tailor to local need . this be vital for Cornwall . decision - make power must be hold locally , not keep in Westminster . cornish people know what work well for we , and it be only right that we shape our own future . the Bill offer a chance to bring real , tangible benefit to south - east Cornwall , so that we have the skill and opportunity to thrive . I look forward to work with the Government to ensure that the Bill deliver on its promise . I will aim to keep my remark brief , have speak on Second Reading and serve on the Bill Committee . before I speak about why we should not amend the Bill to include new clause 1 and 4 and amendment 6 , I will set the scene . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be unsurprise to hear that I warmly welcome the role that the Bill will play in pave the way for Skills England . it be right that we crack on and allow the Secretary of State to transfer to Skills England the tool to find and fill the skill gap across the country , so that the workforce be equip with the skill to power economic growth . my constituency sit just next to stansted airport , and we have many young people undergo course at the Stansted airport college , which I be privileged to visit last Friday . I do not take a whirl on the simulator to learn how to fly a plane ; I save that for a future visit . I be delighted to find out how the college use our local talent in Hertford and Stortford to fill the critical , grow skill gap in the aviation and aerospace sector , and to see the career - focus course that be give young people skill for work and life . just this morning , I be proud to welcome the Minister for School Standards to Manor Fields primary school in Bishop ' s Stortford , where we hear about the impact of the teaching assistant apprenticeship for local support staff , and meet the fantastic provider of those course . it be really move to hear the apprentice talk about how their confidence have be build by take those course . for a young person , the opportunity to find and develop a skill or something they be passionate about do not just get they into the workforce ; it build their confidence and help they to find the path that be right for they . that be why it be so important that we get Skills England set up and do not delay get the Bill through . I know about this from personal experience , have leave school at 16 . I do not follow the path of an apprenticeship . I do not know what the direction be for I . apprenticeship be so important for young people who need to find a path and need the certainty of a career at the end of it , but perhaps do not want to stay in traditional education . it build their confidence , and help they find their place in the world . this be work that we simply can not delay . young people be be let down by a skill system that be not work for they . one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training , which be hold they back , and the economy back , too . in 2022 , more than a third of UK vacancy be due to skill shortage . we need urgent reform — we can not afford to delay . I urge hon . member to pass the Bill unamende this evening so that the Government can get on with reform the skill system and deliver Skills England , to create the opportunity for young people in Hertford and Stortford and across the country that will build their confidence , help they find a path that be right for they , and make a difference to their life . I be proud to serve on the Bill Committee for this vital legislation . it be a small Bill , but , by goodness , it be mighty . I rise to speak against amendment 6 . in do so , I will highlight a local success story in recognition of the third National Supported Internship Day . it take place on 27 March , which also happen to be my birthday . for 15 year , Bracknell and Wokingham college — my local college — and Activate Learning have be work together with over 100 employer to offer support internship placement for learner with special educational need . the scheme offer invaluable opportunity , and provide the skill , confidence and qualification necessary to thrive in the workplace . their partner include the National Grid , the Royal Berkshire hospital , Johnson & Johnson , and Sodexo . it be an excellent example of a local college work with big player in the energy , medical and food industry to provide high - quality scheme for stable , well - pay employment . it be proof that young people with special educational need can thrive with the right support . we face one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training — the number be at an 11 - year high , after 14 year of the Tories — and we need more support internship to address the challenge . Skills England will deliver opportunity across the country in key industry include green energy , construction and healthcare . that be vital for the Government ' s five mission , and for community like Bracknell . it be a step towards end fragmentation . a less complex , more flexible skill system will deliver for young people , especially those with special educational need . by bring together the constituent part of the skill architecture , Skills England will create a system that be fit for purpose , responsive to the need of employer and business , and capable of drive economic growth in the year to come . it will lay the ground for a well system . there be a need to move fast . as the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) point out , the UK ' s productivity be almost 40 % below that of the US , and 20 % below that of other major economy , such as France and Germany . a major reason for that be a lack of appropriate skill , so the Conservatives ' amendment 6 , which would delay the creation of Skills England by a year , be nothing short of irresponsible . we need to work fast , not more slowly . the amendment be indicative of their approach to government : where there be a challenge , they duck it ; where a decision be need , they put it off ; and when a broken system need fixing , they leave it for the next lot . well , the next lot be now in government and will not put off for tomorrow what need to be do today . we know that skill be a crucial driver of economic growth and the key to tackle productivity gap , but our economy be change rapidly in way we can not fully anticipate , so it be crucial that our education system equip young people with a broad range of the skill necessary for success in the job market of tomorrow . that be exactly what the Bill and Skills England will deliver . on the face of it , this be a technical Bill , but the benefit and opportunity that the transition to Skills England can create across the country , include in community such as Birmingham Northfield , be real and tangible . the amendment would have similar effect . in term of timing , while new clause 1 would delay the establishment of Skills England by six month , new clause 4 and amendment 6 would delay it by a year . there be a risk that by accept such amendment we would recreate ifate under the name of Skills England . as my hon . friend have say , we can not wait that long . a new approach be need . as the first Skills England report , which be publish last September , identify , there have be a steady decline in employer ' investment in training during the past decade . investment in real term have fall by about 20 % , even though 90 % of the role in critical demand across the economy require training or education . in my constituency , apprenticeship start fall by 35 % during the last Parliament , more than double the national rate . this be a social issue as well , because more than half the young people not in education , employment or training in Northfield be class as vulnerable , and adult skill fund education be access particularly in the area of my constituency with some of the high level of social need , include Longbridge and West Heath , Weoley and the three estate in king Norton . I be sure the situation be similar for other hon . member . accord to a response to a freedom of information request in 2022 , some £ 1 billion a year nationally in apprenticeship levy funding be unspent . at the same time , major local employer have express their frustration to I about skill shortage in area from construction and home upgrade to computer science . I have see some of the good work already do locally to provide apprenticeship and other form of technical education . next month , we will witness the 20th anniversary of the closure of MG Rover in my constituency . today , South and City College Birmingham , which be partly build on the old Austin site , be one of the large training provider in the west midland . a number of hon . member have pay tribute to their local college , and I would like to do the same . that college offer impressive programme , develop the technical and soft skill of student in a multitude of industry include catering , automotive and advanced manufacturing . as manufacture job start to return to Longbridge , these facility and the experienced staff who work there will be vital to deliver economic growth and opportunity for young people , but they be attempt to fit into a system that be not fit for purpose and be not work . in other word , skill policy be essential for the Government ' s plan for economic recovery and industrial strategy , and it be appropriate to place accountability for the new development directly with Ministers for this period . we hear a lot on the Bill Committee as well as elsewhere about whether Skills England should be create as a stand - alone agency at arm ' s length from the core Department . as we hear on Second Reading , the Government may review Skills England ' s status after 18 month to two year , which seem like a sensible way forward . that be a legitimate debate , but we should not agree tonight to delay Skills England ' s creation . it be important to say that ifate have not live up to expectation and that the status quo be a barrier to the Government ' s objective . nine year ago , the then Minister for skill , Nick Boles , tell the House ' s Education , Skills and the Economy sub - Committee that ifate would " be much more akin to the Bank of England " in term of its independence compare with a traditional arm ' s length organisation . I think most hon . member would agree that that have not be bear out . during the last Parliament , I attend meeting of the UK shipbuilding skill taskforce , where there be common agreement between employer and employee representative organisation that the GCSE entry - level requirement be a barrier for employer take on the young people who be well equip for those apprenticeship . however , that recommendation be block — by DFE Ministers , we be give to understand — from the final report . similarly , employer and people with direct knowledge of the skill system I have talk to over the last few week have stress some of the frustration that exist in the trailblazer employer organisation : within the bureaucracy of ifate , some recommendation and expertise would be either delay or disregard by the route panel , some of which be make up of employer who do not necessarily have expertise in a particular industry . it be important to reduce some of that bureaucracy so the Bill ' s effect of remove a requirement for a regular review of an apprenticeship ' s standard — in practice , every few year — be a sensible change . there be , at the last count , 658 live apprenticeship list on the ifate website . that imply 219 review every year or four a week ; I think we be entitle to question how effective those review can be give ifate ' s current resource . if I may , I will list one more example of where the current system be go wrong . the special educational need and disability teach assistant apprenticeship standard , which be discuss during the last Parliament and then formally create during this one , list a very large number of organisation that contribute to its design . the overwhelming majority be employer , who , of course , need to be represent . only one trade union be represent and I question why that be the case . however , not a single SEND parent ' organisation or other group that represent the need of those young people be draw into the creation of that standard . I think we be entitle to ask whether that be the right approach . the discussion that lead up to the creation of the standard , in practice , be heavily DfE - guide , so I think we be entitle to question the independence of the current system as it exist . we speak at length in Committee or , at least , the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) do — I think we all enjoy it — about the history of skill education in this country . there have be a number of attempt to create skill body to serve Government policy . in preparation for this debate , I be interested to note that when the Conservative Secretary of State for Employment , Maurice Macmillan , announce in 1972 the creation of one of the forerunner of the body , the Manpower Services Commission , he say that a skill training body ought to have direct responsibility to the Minister and the Department of the day . another point be relevant to policy development in this area : in establish that body , he seek the input and representation of employee , as well as employer , through the process . at this point , for the avoidance of doubt , I draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my membership of the GMB and Unite Construction trade union , because I want to return to a clarification and reassurance that the Minister make in a letter to the Public Bill Committee ' s member in respect of the implication of clause 10 . she clarify that nothing in those power could override the constitution of the Construction Industry Training Board and the Engineering Construction Industry Training Board . the industry training board have a long history in skill training , which I hope will be revisit by this government as they address some of the very challenging skill programme that will be need to deliver the energy transition . arguably the most successful skill mass training programme in this country be the one that underpin the transition from town gas to natural gas in the 1960 and 1970 , oversee by the Gas Industry Training Board — perhaps we could do with that body be recreate . one of the very important point about that programme , which survive multiple change of Government and deliver that transition before time and under budget , be that the trade union have very heavy involvement . they include the General and Municipal Workers ' Union , the forerunner of today ' s GMB , which have a formal consultative role on the curriculum that be oversee by that body . over time , the trade union have be squeeze off the board of both the CITB and the ECITB , the remain industrial training board , which be contrary to the original intention of Parliament in the legislation that underpin those body . I therefore hope that , in the course of continue policy development in this area , this Government will look at that issue because , as minister have rightly assure we , employee voice will be represent through Skills England . I hope that that can be the case for the remain training board as well . it be vital that the next generation of worker have the necessary skill to meet the industrial challenge we face , whether it be construct new home , develop our infrastructure or meet our environmental target . most importantly , however , we must ensure that the next generation of young people be provide with the skill and opportunity to develop their potential and pursue their ambition . I will be glad to join my colleague in vote against the amendment in front of we tonight . if I may , I will start by join my colleague on the Government Benches in my opposition to new clause 1 , new clause 4 and amendment 6 . well - mean they may be , but I be impatient for change . stoke - on - Trent have one of the high rate of youth disengagement in education , employment or training in the country . as always , when we look at those heat map , we see the big yellow splodge in the middle of the midland , which be stoke - on - Trent , show that we have one of the high number of worker in the country with no form of formal qualification whatever . our young people tend to find themselves unable to access any form of training or support that they need to make a future career for themselves . I declare my interest as a governor of the City of Stoke - on - Trent Sixth Form College , as we offer t - level . even though I do not have an apprentice in my office like my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , as of next week a t - level student will be in a placement there for the next 18 month , to help their advancement . my impatience stem from the necessity of identify the skill that we need in the city I represent and of make sure that the next generation of young people come through education have they . that be the only way I can see for we to fulfil our desire and ambition to rebuild our economy and attract those high quality , well - pay and long - term job into the city that will mean high wage and the ability to dig ourselves out of our city ' s economic trouble . I do not expect or hope any Government to come over the hill like a cavalry , with a big sack of cash , say , " here you go — here be what you need . " it be partly on we to do that , by match up the skill that we have and the skill that we need in the city to do the job of today and the future job of tomorrow . that be really important . the local skill improvement plan put together by our chamber of commerce and college have go some way to achieve that . however , as always , it be a bit like wade through treacle , because we get to where we think we be go to be and all of a sudden something appear that make it more difficult . then , the people who struggle with that be the young people . I be afraid that anything that seek to delay the advancement of this Bill , such as new clause 1 , new clause 4 and amendment 6 , will not get my support this evening . I do , however , wish to spend a few minute on my own new clause 2 , which be a probe amendment . it be not intend to cause any frustration or Divisions ; I say to the Whip that I be not seek to test the House ' s opinion on it . however , when we consider what apprenticeship will look like in the future and what they mean for city such as Stoke - on - Trent , it be important to understand that level 7 apprenticeship , fund by the apprenticeship levy , be a genuinely important part of the educational offer available to young people in my constituency . the week before last , I visit DJH accountant in Stoke - on - Trent , which be a significant regional player that be train its own generation of charter accountant at level 7 use the apprenticeship levy that would otherwise just disappear into the Treasury . People there explain to I quite succinctly , and I agree , that through their own mean they simply would not have the available capital or cash to fund the quantity of training course that they run . the apprenticeship levy allow they to grow a group of young people into charter accountant . the people I meet be all young . they be not at the mid or tail - end of their career look for a final bump before they get to their pension ; they be young people who have come in after gcse , do their basic accountancy skill and have their eye firmly set on a charter accountancy qualification . the levy be allow they to do that . I ask the young people where they be all from , expect they to be from the city , which they be . I then ask they where they want to work once they have their charter accountancy status and , wonderfully , they all want to stay in Stoke - on - trent and practise the craft that they have be learn . the economic benefit of that to my city be that if it be not for the ability of that company to train to level 7 use the apprenticeship levy , it would have to import that labour from neighbouring area . so somebody who already have the level 7 qualification , or have be train somewhere else through a company that could afford it , would come into Stoke , do the level 7 job , attract that level 7 - equivalent salary and take it back to where they actually live . that would mean that the level 7 salary those young people be go to earn and spend in Stoke - on - Trent would end up migrating to other , slightly more affluent place in the midland — and , candidly , there be many more affluent place in the midland than Stoke - on - Trent . the economic damage do by turn off the apprenticeship levy , or even the skill and growth levy , from level 7 apprenticeship could mean that the place such as Stoke - on - Trent that already suffer from ingrained regional inequality see it far ingrain into their local economy , because the people who have those skill travel in to do the work , or work from home , and the money flow out of the city and be spend in those other local community . there be also the message that we be send to young people in the city . if level 7 qualification be not available to they , they will be unlikely to have the mean to pay for a level 7 qualification themselves . have a level 7 qualification in Stoke - on - Trent be quite a rarity . you be more likely to find somebody with no qualification than with a master ' s level qualification . new clause 2 be a hook to allow the Minister to go away and consider this . I do not believe for one second that it be the determination of the Government to artificially stymie or cap the aspiration of young people in Stoke - on - Trent by suggest to they that those level 7 qualification be not available to they . I appreciate that there be concern in the system about the levy not be use for its intended purpose , but to take people through high level qualification who already have a career behind they . there be obviously organisation and company that have do that because , rather than send that money to the Treasury , they have seek to upskill their own worker . I understand why the Government want to get tough on that , because it be not what the levy be intend for , but the level 7 learner that I have meet be all young . they be people who have a clear idea of the path and trajectory of the career they want to take , and the levy simply make that more viable and likely to be achieve in an economically depressed and deprive place such as Stoke - on - Trent . the other side of the issue be that 95 % of the apprenticeship at the University of Staffordshire be at level 6 , and 5 % be at level 7 . it provide level 7 training for the Ministry of Defence and a number of public service . some of that be fund by the apprenticeship levy . that be an invaluable income stream for the university to deliver that training for people who then go back into the public sector to make it more efficient , to crack down on waste and to deliver those skill that we as a nation determine that we need . that will undoubtedly need to be look at as we have more defence spending , because we will need people with those level 7 qualification in the defence sector , in the manufacture company , and in the electrical and chemical engineering company . ordinarily , company in place such as Stoke - on - Trent will simply not have the capital or the cash to provide that . only by draw down from the apprenticeship levy will they be able to train people locally to do those job . if we be not train people to do those job , the opportunity that come from that Government investment simply will not be feel in place such as Stoke - on - Trent , and the regional inequality that be already quite clear in my city will become more entrenched . my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) talk about find people find career , and that be what all of we want for the young people in our community . it be certainly what I want for the learner in my city , but that career should take they as far as they want to go . that career should take they , if they want , up to a level 7 qualification that allow they to build a life and a career that they enjoy and be happy do . my concern be that the unintended consequence of the Government ' s decision that level 7 qualification will no long be available from the apprenticeship levy will be that in city such as mine , aspiration and ambition will be cap because the cash and the capital be simply not there to meet those young people ' s demand . I have no truck with or support for the delay amendment of the Opposition , and I have no intention of do anything with my new clause other than sit down in a moment . I hope that the Minister will take back the concern that I have raise this evening and see whether there be a way , maybe through devolution deal , through reorganisation or through the mayoral strategic authority , in which certain area could be able to continue with the levy funding for level 7 qualification that we so desperately need . I rise to speak against new clause 1 and 4 and amendment 6 . the simple truth be that we can not have any more dither and delay . our starting point in this debate must be the fact that we be in a skill crisis , and one that lie at the foot of the Conservatives . twenty - six year ago , I work on the new deal taskforce for the Labour Government of the time , clear up the mess that the Major Government have leave in the skill system . fast - forward over a quarter of a century , and once again we find the Labour Government have to clear up the mess in skill leave by conservative . the fact be stark . today , only 10 % of all adult hold a level 4 or 5 qualification , versus 20 % in Germany and 34 % in Canada . some 26 % of our workforce be underqualifie for their job , versus the OECD average of 18 % . what be more , the UK have high skill inequality than other equivalent country . adult in the west midland be three time more likely to lack basic qualification at GCSE level than those in London . if we reach german level , an extra 290 , 000 people in the west midland would have high level qualification . while 71 % of Londoners look set to have high education by 2035 , the figure for Hull be only 29 % . the system be not just struggle to provide our people with the skill they need ; it be fail to provide employer with the skill they need to drive growth . one third of UK vacancy in 2022 be down to skill shortage . for instance , 92 % of employer cite digital skill as key for their business , yet 7 . 5 million working - age adult lack they . the skill system that the Conservatives leave behind be let down our people and hold back our economy . conservative Members have talk about what be need . let I tell they what be need . we need a more strategic approach , one that identify skill gap and flexibly co - ordinate the Government response to address they . it need to be integrate and it need to take a more strategic view . that be exactly what Skills England do . Skills England have already start its work and publish its first report , and it will issue analysis later this year on sector to support the industrial strategy . it will act as a key ingredient in deliver that strategy , and it will unlock the skill that employer need . it already exist in shadow form . Skills England be ready to go and business be cry out for it , yet what we have hear today be two suggestion . the first be that , despite that , we should delay far : for six month in the case of new clause 1 , and for a year , if not long , in the case of new clause 4 and amendment 6 . to those who propose this , I say simply this : enough debate . we need to get on with the job . what they be propose be not constructive , and would simply slow down the process of turn this country ' s skill gap around . the second thing we have hear be that Skills England and ifate should run together for at least a year , despite their separate and in some case conflict remit . let we be clear : this would only create chaos , with the different organisation step on each other ' s foot . the different remit would , if anything , dilute the impact of an industrial strategy . the risk be that all the proposal make by the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) would lead to the recreation of the fail organisation by the back door . it be time to put an end to this blocking and fiddling . Skills England be in the Government ' s manifesto . the public vote for change and Skills England be a key part of deliver it . let we end the delay , defeat these amendment , get Skills England set up and get on with the task of deliver for the british people . I call the shadow Minister . I find myself in complete agreement with the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , and our amendment — new clause 4 and amendment 6 — be suggest in the same spirit . there be good reason why standard setting be put at arm ' s length and close to employer , but now the Government be bring it into the Department . alongside other change , such as shortening apprenticeship and axe high apprenticeship , that risk damage the status of these qualification , which we have be work to build up . the Budget be bad for employment , and it will make it less likely that business will take on apprentice . rather than address the problem that they be create , the Government be reorganise . it be the umpteenth reorganisation in recent decade . the Government ' s own recent impact assessment say that the reorganisation will lead to a delay and drop in apprenticeship , hence our amendment . for decade , politician have say that they want to make apprenticeship more prestigious . on average , twice as many people start apprenticeship each year under the last government as under the previous Labour Government , but high apprenticeship grow fast of all . the number of people on high apprenticeship go from just 3 , 000 in 2010 to 273 , 000 last year — a huge increase . we increase the quality of apprenticeship , too , which be much need , as have already be allude to by my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) . in 2015 , a devastating ofsted report find that some apprentice who have be on an apprenticeship for more than a year be not even aware that they be on an apprenticeship , and the skill they be learn be thing like make a cup of coffee , which be not life - change skill . thing be be fund that do not benefit young people , but do allow employer to pay a low wage . whereas we lengthen apprenticeship , this Government have cut the length of apprenticeship to eight month . by abolish ifate and bring it in house at the DFE , they be erode that employer ownership that we work to build up . whereas we grow high apprenticeship , they be about to abolish most level 7 apprenticeship . that be a taste of what be to come if our amendment be not accept . the Government be do this because in opposition they promise that employer could take 50 % of their levy fund and spend they on other thing . on 20 November , the parliamentary under - Secretary of State who will respond to this debate say that this commitment be " currently be review " . but just week later , on 9 December , the Secretary of State say the Government be still fully commit to " 50 % flexibility for employer " . when I ask the Minister in Committee whether that be still the policy , she say that she would have to get back to I . as the Skills Minister say in the Financial Times , far from the 50 % be a promise — as employer be lead to believe — it will , in fact , all depend on the outcome of the spending review . business be start to raise the alarm . the British Chambers of Commerce have say that a " lack of clarity " about the levy be create " fresh uncertainty among business " and be " worrying and destabilising " . employer say that this be lead to firm pause hiring of apprentice . since the levy be introduce in 2017 , real - term spend on apprenticeship and work - base training have increase by about a quarter from £ 2 billion to £ 2 . 5 billion . move 50 % of all that money out of apprenticeship would obviously lead to a substantial drop in the number of apprenticeship . in a write answer to I , Ministers have confirm that the Department have an internal forecast for the number of apprenticeship start , but they have also say that they will not publish it — I think we all know why that be . the previous Government move to make it more attractive for small and medium - sized enterprise to take on young people . since April , 16 to 21 - year - old have have 100 % funding , rather than require the 5 % employer contribution . we need to build on that and cut bureaucracy for small business , but the Government ' s answer be different : they plan to abolish the high - level apprenticeship and redistribute the money . I think the brilliant speech by the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) on his amendment 2 be so right . I will not be as articulate as he , but I will try to add to the point he make , and I hope the Minister will listen to her wise colleague . employer and educator can see that this be a trial run of what it will be like as minister take more control with this Bill , and they be warn that it be a big mistake . Dan Lally at Sheffield Hallam University say that level 7 cut will " disproportionately impact on public service … we be meet vital skill gap in discipline such as advanced clinical practitioner … these be NHS worker , civil servant and local authority employee . a high number of our level 7 apprentice … come from the area of high deprivation . " for example , level 7 apprenticeship be absolutely central to the NHS ' s long - term workforce plan . last year , we see the Government ' s disappointing decision to cancel the level 7 doctor apprenticeship . that mean there will be a shortfall of about 2 , 000 medical place a year . student who have already start on the medical doctor apprenticeship have sadly be leave in limbo , and I be concern the Government will do something similar to nurse as part of the level 7 cut . the NHS ' s workforce plan propose an extra 50 , 000 nurse come through the apprentice route . around a quarter of they tend to be on an " Agenda for Change " band 7 , which typically require a master ' s equivalent , so we would expect about 11 , 000 of those nurse to be come via level 7 apprenticeship . if the Government get rid of they , that be a huge hole in the NHS plan . as well as the NHS , local government make huge use of level 7 apprenticeship , include the extra town planner that the Government say be need to deliver on housing target . Deborah Johnston at London South Bank University say : " over half of the employer we work with … on level 7 apprenticeship be local authority . our apprentice enable council to deliver project in the wake of … reintroduce mandatory housing target . the suggestion that , as employer , local authority should step in and pay for the level 7 apprenticeship themselves be fanciful . " the profession be also worried . the Institute of Chartered Accountants have say that axe level 7 apprenticeship will lead to work leave the UK . it say : " remove level 7 apprenticeship funding will mean that few UK training role be create . instead , organisation be likely to turn to offshore to replace UK training role " . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central rightly say that it would lead to people be outside Stoke - on - Trent , but in some case it would lead to they be outside this country altogether . that be why the campaign for Learning have call for a skill immigration worker test before defunde level 7 apprenticeship , so that we do not simply go from invest in british worker to import worker from other country . likewise , the Chartered Management Institute have say : " cut funding for level 7 apprenticeship would risk create gap in leadership … at a time when business and the public sector need they most . " I have be contact by several firm worry about the abolition of the solicitor apprenticeship — a way into the law for people from less privileged background . attwell Solicitors , for example , say : " reduce funding to level 7 apprentice run the risk of remove opportunity into profession " and that " apprenticeship help break down barrier into not only Law but all career path which could be inaccessible to young people without they . " as well as hit employer , on the other side of the ledger — this be why our amendment be important — axe level 7 will be destabilising for university provider . it will particularly hurt those institution that have try to do the right thing for those who traditionally do not go to university . sixty - six university deliver level 7 apprenticeship , and a prestigious institution such as Cranfield University , which be a postgraduate - only institution with deep industry link , will be hugely expose if the Government wield the axe in the way they plan . York St John University have something like 100 level 7 apprentice . other institution such as the Open University , Manchester Met and the University of West London be all expose , too . cull level 7 be a big mistake . these apprenticeship be vital across the public sector and be a way into the profession for people who might otherwise struggle to enter they . above all , they be the capstone of a drive to make the apprenticeship system more prestigious . British Airways carry on run the Concorde even though it be a small part of its business because of what it call the halo effect . it know that it change the way the organisation be see . by create the top of that pyramid — the very top of the ladder ; people can go all the way — level 7 apprenticeship create a halo effect around apprenticeship , and that be a vital part of why we should not get rid of they . worse still , it be crystal clear from the Minister ' s reply in the Bill Committee that the Government be keep open the option to move on and take an axe to level 6 apprenticeship too , which would make that mistake even big and will not , in fact , drive money towards l2 and L3 . the other day we learn that the DFE be to cut the adult skill budget by 6 % — something for which Ministers criticise the previous government but be now do themselves . ironically , that come out at the same time as , and be overshadow by , the welfare reform Green Paper , which mention train 18 time . in Committee , the Minister refuse to confirm whether the Government would continue to provide the extra 10 % funding to get t - level go , even though provider be cry out for clarity on that . it be no wonder that many employer would like the certainty that come with a degree of independence from politic . wise people on the Labour Benches want that , too . Lord Blunkett say in the other place : " when two year ago I lead on the learning and skill document that be a precursor to Skills England … we never envisage that an agency inside government would have to take on the assurance and accreditation of the relevant sector standard . " he note : " a Skills England that have no legislative backing and no parliamentary reference but be down merely to the change face of ministerial and departmental appointment be in danger of lose its birthright before it have get off the ground . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 841 , c . GC98 . ] even those on the labour side who be involve in dream up Skills England have argue for its independence . likewise , various employer body , include the Institute of the Motor Industry , the Skills Federation and the Construction Industry Training Board , have argue that it should be more independent . as labour peer Lord Knight have point out , the problem that some of we have with the Bill be that it feel as if the second half be miss , and that second half be the establishment of Skills England as a statutory body . the original draft of the Bill do not even mention Skills England . as Baroness Blower , another labour peer , have point out , the appropriate move from where we be now would be to make it a statutory body . that be why our amendment would make the Bill do what the Government be pretend it do by actually set up Skills England , which be clearly the intent of many on the Labour Benches . give all the problem that the Government be create , the very act of a further reorganisation be likely to compound the effect of the Budget . the impact assessment state : " the transfer of function from ifate to the DfE could potentially cause a temporary slowdown in the growth rate of new apprenticeship and technical education course due to potential delay in the approval process result from the Bill … this may disproportionately impact disadvantaged learner , who rely more heavily on these pathway " . so there you have it , Madam Deputy Speaker . employer and educator be criticise the uncertainty that the Government be create ; labour peer be argue that Skills England should be make independent , but the Government be ignore those on their own side with experience ; and employer be warn against axe valuable qualification , but the Skills Minister be determined to end they . yet another reorganisation , yet more centralisation , no clear vision — it be another big mess . I thank hon . member for their constructive engagement throughout the debate . however , from listen to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , one would think that this be all doom and gloom , when it be actually a new season of growth and skill . we be spring into action , and I encourage he not to be stick in the past . as I have say before , include when we discuss the Bill in detail in Committee , it be wonderful to hear the passion that member from across the House have for improve our skill system . it be clear that we all share a desire to well meet the skill need of employer and learner . the Government be determined to unlock growth and spread opportunity , and the Bill will help we to deliver the change that we absolutely need . I will start by speak to new clause 1 before touch on the other new clause and amendment . can the Minister explain , in answer to the point make by the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) and other , the rationale behind eliminate level 7 apprenticeship ? information on that will come out in due course , but if the right hon . Member give I a little more time , I will be able to elaborate and respond to member as I go . new clause 1 and 4 relate to the creation of Skills England and its legal status . new clause 1 , table by the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , would require the Secretary of State to lay draft proposal for a new executive agency , to be know as Skills England , within six month of Royal Assent . new clause 4 , table by the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston , would require the Secretary of State to establish Skills England as a statutory body . our position — that we establish Skills England as an executive agency — remain extremely clear and be entirely in keep with the usual process for establish arm ' s length body . the Department be comply with the robust and vigorous process for establish Executive agency , which apply across Government . the Executive agency model balance operational independence with proximity to Government . that be need to inform policy and support delivery of the Government ' s mission . that model enable we to move quickly , which be vital give the scale and urgency of the skill challenge that we face . the Government have commit to review Skills England between 18 and 24 month after it be set up . that will include an assessment of whether the Executive agency model be enable Skills England to deliver its objective . that be consistent with good practice . skill will power this mission - drive Government and our plan for change . our approach mean that we can get on with the job at hand : fix the skill system and help more people to get the training they need to build our home , power our town and city with clean energy , and master new digital technology . I thank the Minister for visit the good town in England , Harlow , last week . do she agree that this Bill will help benefit young people in my constituency and give they the skill that they need ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that the Bill will help young people to gain the skill that they need — in his wonderful constituency and in many other wonderful constituency as well . amendment 6 table by the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston would frustrate the complete establishment of Skills England by delay the transfer for a full year of the function as set out in the Bill . member have hear the Government set out already that delay be not an option ; that have be repeatedly say . they should not just take my word for it : technology training provider QA have say that this be a pivotal moment for shape the skill system to meet the UK ' s industrial and economic need , and it be right . the complex and fragmented nature of the skill system be contribute to critical skill gap in our economy today : opportunity be be miss today , growth be be hold back by a lack of skill today , and we can not afford to be sluggish in our pursuit of a more joined up , data - drive approach . in the first set of apprenticeship statistic under the new Labour Government we see an increase in start , participation and achievement compare with the same period under the Tories in 2023 , even in the constituency of the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston . when the Conservatives be in government , start in his constituency fall by 13 % ; almost 100 few people be start apprenticeship on their watch . this government mark National Apprenticeship Week with a set of reform go far and fast on growth , whereas under his government a third of vacancy be due to the lack of skill . we will press on . the british Chambers of Commerce have urge we to work at pace to establish Skills England , and we be do exactly that . since be set up in shadow form , Skills England have get to work . it have get to work by identify skill gap in the economy and building relationship with strategic authority , employer and other group . indeed , Skills England have work with mayoral , strategic authority and other form of regional government as well as regional organisation to ensure that regional and national skill need be meet in line with the forthcoming industrial strategy . skill England will work closely with the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council so that we have the skilled workforce need to deliver a clear long - term plan for the future economy , and with the Migration Advisory Committee to ensure that grow the domestic skill pipeline reduce our reliance on overseas worker . our constituent will not thank we for stick in the slow lane . there be no need to wait another year , and we be ready to go now . new clause 2 and 3 table by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) and the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston respectively would impose a duty on the Secretary of State to publish within one year of Royal Assent report on the impact of the Act on T - level and high education . member will be aware that we have already include in the Bill a duty for the Secretary of State to report on function transfer from the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education that will be exercise by Skills England , include their impact on technical education and apprenticeship . this report will need to be publish not after a year but after six month , which be much soon . we have therefore already make commitment to transparency in the Bill , and that be welcome by stakeholder , include the Association of Colleges in its write evidence to the Bill Committee . we all agree that t - level and high education be central to fix our skill challenge and , as I make clear in Committee , the Skills England six - month report will include necessary information on t - level as well as technical education and apprenticeship deliver in high education setting . the conservative party have argue that we must avoid Skills England be overlook and distract from its important work . surely , then , we should avoid force it to spend its first year produce more and more report cover the same issue . amendment 1 and 2 be table by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central and by the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston respectively . these amendment would also place additional reporting requirement on the Secretary of State , this time in relation to degree apprenticeship . as with t - level and high education , the report that the Government have commit to provide after six month will necessarily include information on apprenticeship , include degree apprenticeship . amendment 1 be about fund for those apprenticeship . we be set Skills England up to build the evidence and the partnership need to deliver change , but policy and funding decision on skill provision will not sit with Skills England ; they will continue to sit with the Secretary of State . that be entirely right and appropriate , and nothing in the Bill change that . we will set out more information on level 7 apprenticeship in due course . if I have hear the Minister right , the first report that will come out will include aspect of the implication for high - degree apprenticeship , but the funding decision will still sit with the Department , as they should . will the report refer to the funding decision make by the Secretary of State , so that when it come to the impact of the decision make , we can see correlation and causation ? I absolutely hear my hon . friend and his concern for level 7 . I do not want to stray too far from the Bill and what it seek to achieve , but I be very happy to look at that far with he , and to get back to he . on Sunday , it will be eight year since the levy be introduce , and only now , under a Labour Government , be employer get the flexibility they have be cry out for , include on math and English , and on the length of apprenticeship . that be in response to industry need , and recognise the need of job , and the need to get young people a foot in the door , so that they can start good career . after nine month in government , this Labour Government have cut through red tape and be drive the skill that our employer need , show that Labour be the party of business . we be reform apprenticeship , tilt the system towards young people most in need of develop skill , and ensure that young people get a foot on the career ladder . amendment 3 and 5 be again table by the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston . they would create a statutory duty on the Secretary of State to have due regard to the reasonable requirement of employer and individual when consider whether to approve a standard or assessment plan where it have be develop by a group of person . as I make clear in my response to the hon . member in Committee , the Secretary of State be already subject to a general public law duty that require they to take into account all relevant consideration when make decision relate to the function for which they be responsible . there be therefore already a requirement for the Secretary of State to balance the need of user of the system when execute the function describe in the Bill . in fact , the public law duty be broad than the factor list in the amendment and include , for example , consideration of value for money and quality . turn lastly to amendment 4 , table by the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston , it be critical that technical qualification and apprenticeship reflect the need of employer , and that they have confidence in they . employer tell we that speed and flexibility be crucial if we be to work together more effectively to plug skill gap . the precise make - up of " a group of person " be not currently mandate in legislation . flexibility be necessary to ensure that the membership of every group reflect the factor relevant to an occupation . specify in the Bill that a group must always include a particular voice would introduce new and unnecessary constraint on the structure of group . to conclude , this Government be commit to transform the skill system so that it can deliver the highly skilled workforce that our country need . skill will power this Government ' s relentless focus on deliver our mission . that be why this Government ' s first piece of educational legislation pave the way for Skills England to identify and fill skill gap . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tessa Munt Susan Murray Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 168 , Noes 302 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 4 - creation of Skills England " ( 1 ) a body corporate know as Skills England be establish to carry out the function transfer to the Secretary of State under this Act . ( 2 ) at the end of a year after the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make regulation transfer to Skills England all the function transfer from the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education under this Act . ( 3 ) nothing in this section prevent the Secretary of State from transfer more function to Skills England under other enactment . " — ( Neil o ' Brien . ) this new clause would put Skills England on an independent statutory footing rather than as part of the DfE . the role of ifate would be include in that plan for Skills England . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Ben Obese - Jecty Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 306 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 25 February ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 12 - Commencement Amendment propose : 6 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) this Act come into force at the end of the period of one year begin on the day on which Skills England be create . " — ( Neil o ' Brien . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Ben Obese - Jecty Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 166 , Noes 305 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . we be on a mission to deliver strong and sustainable economic growth and to break down the barrier to opportunity . skill will power this mission - drive Government and our plan for change . I thank member across the House for their contribution . I especially thank member of the Bill Committee for their scrutiny ; the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) and my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) for chair the Committee ; and my hon . friend the Members for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) and for Lewisham North ( Vicky Foxcroft ) for their crucial work in guide the Bill through Committee and the other House of Commons stage . the Bill have benefit from scrutiny both in this House and in the other place . I welcome the broad support for the creation of Skills England and its work . it be clear that we be unite in our recognition of the need to develop a world - lead approach to skill . it be vital if we be to build the highly skilled workforce that we need to meet today ' s challenge and grasp tomorrow ' s opportunity . we need skill to get Britain building ; we need skill to deliver energy security ; and we need skill to advance AI and increase productivity . we need to improve the quality and availability of training to give people from all background from across the country the power to seize opportunity and improve their life and their family ' s life . that be why this Labour Government ' s very first piece of education legislation will pave the way for Skills England . accord to employer , over one third of vacancy in 2022 be due to skill shortage . this must change . we need to move fast to identify and plug skill gap in the economy . the Bill be a crucial step in deliver this change . skill England will combine for the first time insight into skill gap with the development of technical education to meet the gap , and the network will ensure that skill need can be tackle across the country . Skills England be already make a difference . it be change the way skill gap be identify and how key organisation be work together to fill they . this government be ready to go . as soon as the Bill pass , Skills England stand ready to take forward its work as a strong , coherent , single organisation . Delay be not an option . we must act and we will act . we be act now . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I have already read out quote from employer and those in education and the public service warn about the problem build up in the skill system because of the decision the Government be make . this evening the Government have decide not to listen to some of the wise people on their own side , include a former education Minister , but I hope that they will listen to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , because they be on the edge of make a huge mistake by butcher high apprenticeship — a huge mistake that they will live to regret . they be not listen to their own member this evening , but I hope that they will in the future . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Peter Prinsley Steve Race Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Vicky Foxcroft Gen Kitchen Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tessa Munt Susan Murray the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 62 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Agriculture ( Delinked Payments ) ( reduction ) ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 February , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Peter Prinsley Steve Race Mike Reader Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Gen Kitchen Vicky Foxcroft Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 296 , Noes 164 . question accordingly agree to . committee with the leave of the House , we will take motion 4 and 5 together . Administration Ordered , that Gill Furniss be discharge from the Administration Committee and Bambos Charalambous be add . Finance that Matt Bishop be discharge from the Finance Committee and Paul Davies be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Croydon Area Remodelling Funding : Brighton Mainline Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to raise this important issue in the House . at this time on a Monday night , Members may not find the prospect of discuss the Croydon area remodelle scheme , or CARS , the most exciting way to spend their time , but I can assure they that it be . the scheme be not just about provide vital upgrade to two of busy train station in the country and bring much - need investment into one of London ' s most significant area of opportunity , but about supercharge growth , opportunity and transport link right across the south - east . CARS be a Network Rail plan to add capacity and ease congestion on the most complex part of Britain ' s rail network , and to improve service on one of the country ' s most critical rail line : the Brighton main line . the lack of capacity at East Croydon station and the complex series of junction north of Croydon — the Selhurst triangle — mean that train across the Brighton main line , include the Gatwick Express and those across the wide south - east network , have for many year be vulnerable to delay and cancellation . at the time of develop those plan , Network Rail report that service punctuality on the Brighton main line be the low of any major route , with the bottleneck at Croydon be one of the main cause . the Croydon opportunity area be earmark for 14 , 500 new home and 10 , 500 new job by 2041 , there will be extensive housing delivery in the Brighton city region , between Horsham and Crawley , and along the south coast , and Gatwick be forecast to grow by 58 % by 2047 even with only one runway , so the pressure on the Brighton main line be set only to increase . however , the Croydon bottleneck mean that there be no practical way of improve journey time , meet passenger demand and opening up new destination on the Brighton main line in the future , because the maximum number of train that can be schedule through East Croydon be 70 per hour . in 2019 , the service be run at maximum capacity ; it be now almost back to pre - pandemic level , with 62 schedule train . rise — I look forward to hear how Mr Shannon ' s intervention relate to the Croydon area remodelle scheme and the Brighton main line . the most important thing , Madam Deputy Speaker , be to congratulate the hon . Lady on secure the debate . I speak to she beforehand to try to help she in some small way . do she agree that year of underspend on public transport have leave railway and bus service drown in repair work , and that if the Government wish to have a thriving public transport service outside London , local authority must be give the funding to fix service — be they in Croydon or Newtownards — rather than have to shake a begging bowl for penny , as they do now ? a successful intervention . I agree with the hon . gentleman : sustainable long - term funding be the only way for any area outside London to grow sustainably . in addition , CARS would see significant improvement to East Croydon station , Britain ' s 21st most use station , by add two new platform , a large concourse to improve facility for passenger and well connection to local transport network . it also provide an opportunity to modernise Norwood Junction station , Britain ' s 117th most use station , by extend the platform so that more service can stop there and add a footbridge with a lift to finally bring step - free access to this much - love local transport hub . despite a consultation with stakeholder and passenger show that 90 % of respondent be in favour of CARS , in 2020 the previous Government shelve these crucial infrastructure plan , turn their back on economic growth in Croydon and across the south - east . however , passenger number on the Brighton main line continue to recover well post - pandemic , with station entry and exit at East Croydon station now back up to almost 80 % when compare to their pre - pandemic level and back up to 92 % at Gatwick Airport station when compare with the same period . give the renew interest in the expansion of Gatwick airport , the need to look again at CARS be more vital than ever . Gatwick be Europe ' s busy single - runway airport and with the Gatwick airport to Victoria route be the seventh busy flow for rail passenger nationally — second , when we take out the Elizabeth line extension — even without a second runway , demand for train service into Gatwick be already reach capacity . the economic case for Gatwick expansion , create an estimate 14 , 000 new job and generate an estimate £ 1 billion a year for the british economy , have be well document and the Government have outline that any expansion would need to see the number of passenger arrive at Gatwick via public transport increase from its current 44 % to 54 % . it be not hard to argue that without the urgent improvement that CARS bring to this line , that ambition be difficult to achieve . further delay in get car off the ground could not only hold back economic growth for the coast - to - capital region — a region estimate to be the seventh large regional economy in the country — but it could also hold back economic growth for our country . the hon . Lady be make an excellent case for solve the Croydon bottleneck , as it be know . as she have outline , it affect not only her area of Croydon , but my area of Carshalton and Wallington — the hon . Member and I have see each other on the train on the way into this place . do she agree that public transport and train demand in particular can be affect by the frequency and reliability of the service ? if we be to fix this problem , that could actually increase the demand for train use in our area , which would be a good thing not only for the economy , but for the environment . I absolutely agree that once people get into the doom loop of think that the train be not go to arrive , they find other route or stick to their car . if we can improve rail performance in every region across the country , I be sure we will see passenger number also go back up to those pre - pandemic level , and even increase beyond that . I appreciate that the Government have rightly state their intention to grow every corner of this country and that good public transport will no long be confine to the boundary of our city . I urge the Minister to consider the wide impact that invest in CARS could have for our coastal community , what it could do for town and region outside London , and what it could do for my part of outer south London . with an estimate extra 4 , 000 seat per hour on the Brighton main line , 15 % high than what would be provide without it , CARS be not just good for Croydon and the whole of the south - east — it be good for our country , too . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) for secure this debate and allow we to discuss this critical area of rail infrastructure . as my hon . friend have so clearly outline , the Brighton main line be a crucial artery connect the south coast to the heart of London , carry million of passenger each year . it be a lifeline for commuter , a gateway for visitor and a crucial link for business that be drive our economy forward . it also provide a direct rail link into Gatwick , the UK ' s second busy airport . in her constituency , East Croydon station be a major public transport hub , provide link to service across Sussex as well as the London Tramlink . the line facilitate billion of pound in economic activity every year , enable business to thrive and community to stay connected . that be reflect in the substantial investment in the line in the recent past . the £ 7 billion Thameslink programme transform north - south travel through London , deliver fast , more frequent and more reliable journey for passenger . Thameslink see an entirely new , bespoke fleet of class 700 train introduce to the Brighton main line , radically increase onboard capacity and improve the reliability of the service . in addition , major station such as London Blackfriars and London Bridge be entirely rebuild , and the vital link to the Elizabeth line be create at Farringdon — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) indeed , via the major hub of East Croydon station in my hon . friend ' s constituency , the Thameslink programme also establish new direct connection to Peterborough and Cambridge . More than £ 250 million be recently invest in upgrade Gatwick airport station , deliver a new , more accessible station concourse and double the space for passenger . I be very grateful to the Minister for outline the investment make in the line historically . indeed , in Gatwick ' s case , a very large portion of the investment be make directly by the airport , rather than by the Department for Transport . this debate be about the fact that in shortly over a decade , the line will be completely at capacity , so any train leave Brighton will be full by the time it arrive at my constituency of Crawley . not a single passenger from Gatwick will be able to get on the train to London without these improvement , and we be run out of time to secure the change necessary to avoid that outcome . Gatwick Airport Ltd have apply for a development consent order to bring its northern runway into routine use alongside its main runway . I understand that it have commit to provide a £ 10 million rail enhancement fund to support improvement to the network require to accommodate additional passenger and mitigate the impact on performance . as I say , more than £ 250 million be recently invest in upgrade Gatwick airport station , deliver a new , more accessible station concourse , double the space for passenger , improve the reliability of train call at the station and ensure that it be a fitting gateway to the UK . for too many year , Gatwick airport station have be a major bottleneck on the Brighton main line due to the extended time that passenger need to board and alight from train . since the significant expansion of the station and the widening of platform , passenger can board and alight much more quickly , reduce knock - on delay far up and down the line . as part of the Gatwick upgrade , the track layout through the station be remodelled to increase capacity and speed , reduce journey time between Brighton and London by five minute and improve performance . I hope that my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East and her constituent have start to see the direct benefit of those intervention at Gatwick , be it in the efficiency of their train service or the ease with which they can start their holiday . despite those investment , demand and crowd on the line continue to grow up to 2019 . it be a victim of its own success , we could say . before the pandemic , the Croydon area remodelling scheme be rightly identify as a priority scheme to address crowding and provide more capacity on the line . as my hon . friend have outline , the complex junction at Selhurst and pinch point at East Croydon and Norwood Junction station create limit on capacity . car be develop to address that through significant remodelling of the track and rail junction north of East Croydon station and as far up as the Norwood Junction station area . CARS also envisage a major redevelopment of East Croydon station . at the time , Network Rail estimate that it would take over 10 year to fully deliver the CARS scheme , at a cost of around £ 2 . 9 billion . delivery would also involve significant and ongoing disruption for passenger up and down the Brighton main line . however , the pandemic create significant change in travel pattern and uncertainty about future demand , while at the same time stretch public finance . in response , the previous Government take the decision to pause the scheme at the 2021 spending review . no development work have be undertake on CARS since then . in her spring statement last week , the Chancellor be clear about the challenge face our public finance and the step that she be take to restore stability and support growth . the ongoing spending review be an important part of that process . we be work to carefully assess each element of public spending , include rail investment , ensure that every penny spend support our mission and the plan for growth . give that this process be ongoing , I regret that I be not able to comment on individual project such as the Croydon area remodelle scheme until the spending review have conclude in June . my Department and I certainly recognise the substantial benefit that the CARS programme could bring by unlock development in Croydon and provide capacity for growth across the coast - to - capital region . I also restate the offer make on Thursday by the Secretary of State for Transport to meet my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East to discuss CARS and the driver for investment she have outline so clearly . however , I remind she of the multibillion - pound cost of the scheme , in the context of the significant funding challenge that the Government face across a range of public service and infrastructure investment ambition . we will continue to work with rail industry partner , local authority and stakeholder across the region , explore opportunity to improve rail service in the south - east and to ensure that the Brighton main line remain a world - class transport link — one that meet the need of its passenger and support economic growth . question put and agree to . House adjourn . — [ Official Report , 31 March 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 3 . ]