fifteen year of experience of lead and scrutinise complicated legislation tell I to be cautious with the Bill . I strongly admire its aim , but I have some question to set out as to whether it will work . with direct knowledge of cancer and deep commitment to cancer awareness , I want people to smoke less . as we have hear , smoke cause around one in four of all UK cancer death . tobacco , especially cigarette smoking , be the single most important and , as we have hear , preventable cause of ill health , disability and death in this country . I agree with the Bill ' s hope of reduce that suffering . I also desire the Bill ' s aim to realise an economic saving on healthcare , name as more than £ 3 billion in the impact assessment , and a productivity gain of £ 24 billion over 30 year . my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , the chair of the Health Committee , be right that we should be take the long - term view and look for the gain from prevention . for all that to be possible , however , the legislation have to work . I be join today ' s debate — I shall keep it concise , Madam Deputy Speaker — because I care very much about politic and democracy work . as I stand down from Parliament this year , this be one of the final piece of draft legislation for I and it be a significant proposition , so I will raise some point that be all intend to be thoughtful and be base on five term of constituency work and ministerial experience in six department . in one of my past role , I have to undo legislation that I have help to implement , because it do not work . the age - of - sale mechanism in the Bill be the untested thing . it would be the first of its kind in the world , but that accolade would come only because a few have try and fail to carry support . the Bill as a whole have an imperfect evidence base — that be clear throughout its analysis , in particular because we do not yet have the full datum picture about the effect of vaping — so what be in front of we today be inherently risky and theoretical . it be also possible that it may be divisive by ask one group of adult to live under rule different from those for another . I understand that the malaysian equivalent be challenge on equality ground and I would be really interested to know what lesson the Minister have draw from that . it be legitimate to be worry that something so novel may be unfair on retailer . the British Independent Retailers Association point out that the quite sophisticated enforcement need of the mechanism fall on its member . as the Association of Convenience Stores add , the " proxy purchasing of any age - restrict product be extremely difficult for retailer to detect and prevent . " indeed , the deterrent in the Bill for proxy purchasing be just £ 50 , if a person catch and pay promptly . after my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s effort at the late Budget , that be actually only the cost of about two or three packet of cigarette . I be therefore concerned that the design of the proxy - buy deterrent in the Bill could be fatally impractical for what be try to be achieve . let we put that in really super - practical term . a person ' s friend , a year old , may well be able to go into a shop or online and get two packet and let their friend have one , and the cost of their do so add up in the end to only three or four packet for themselves . we ought to give considerable thought to that . the British Retail Consortium say that a well policy be need on ID . I agree . I be surprised that the impact assessment say nothing about the impact of individual need to provide ID throughout their life , instead of just up to the age of adulthood . the document , of course , do deal with the cost to retailer of check ID , but it be silent on the burden of ask a particular group of adult to have to prove their date of birth for life . I be talk about those who be or look , and would continue to be or to look , just above the age state in the Bill . healthy or unhealthy , right or wrong , they have every right to buy cigarette and would remain in possession of that right , but they would have to prove it for life under the Bill . when I take the Bill that become the Elections Act 2022 through the House , we be rightly question hard about the notion of ask adult to bring identification to polling station . we acknowledge up front that not everyone hold a drive licence or a passport , and ensure that other form of ID be available , give the importance of people ' s democratic right . this be a slightly different point and I be not make a direct comparison , but for the purpose of retail , free ID — for example , the CitizenCard — be already available . however , it need to be renew every few year , and a new requirement in the Bill mean that it would need to be use for life . I think the Government should have more reassurance to give law - abide people than silence . I say that I strongly admire the aspiration of the Bill . for the sake of all those who be entangle in a lethal addiction , I would like to see smoking stop in this country , so I be not stand here on ideological ground . I be make sensible point about whether the Bill be go to work . we have have — rightly — a wide - range , reflective and constructive debate , but good intention and heroic ambition be not enough . if we be to do something very novel and use the power of legislation to do it , we need to have confidence that the legislation be workable . I hope that my fellow legislator will rise to the challenge that be present by this idea , and will scrutinise it carefully . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Paula Barker John Baron Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradshaw Jack Brereton Steve Brine Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Steve Double Stephen Doughty Oliver Dowden Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield Philip Dunne Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Laura Farris Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mike Freer Louie French Gill Furniss Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Patricia Gibson Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Peter Grant Chris Grayling Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood James Grundy Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey Chris Heaton - Harris Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Rachel Hopkins John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Mike Kane Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Kate Kniveton Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Chris Loder Tim Loughton Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Carol Monaghan Robbie Moore Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Jill Mortimer David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols Lia Nici John Nicolson Caroline noke Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Anum Qaisar Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Dean Russell David Rutley Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Ben Spencer Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens John Stevenson Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Robin Walker Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Craig Williams Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Daniel Zeichner Aaron Bell Mike Wood Adam Afriyie Lee Anderson Sarah Atherton Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Steven Baker Simon Baynes Jake Berry Graham Brady Suella Braverman Paul Bristow Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Jackie Doyle - Price James Duddridge Mark Eastwood George Eustice Nicholas Fletcher Mark Francois Richard Fuller George Galloway Paul Girvan Chris Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Darren Henry Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Robert Jenrick Greg Knight Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Carla Lockhart Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Rachel Maclean Anthony Mangnall Karl McCartney Anne Marie Morris Ian Paisley Jnr Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Giles watle Sammy Wilson Gareth Johnson Craig Whittaker