Speaker ' s statement I would like to make a brief statement . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for Defence for his statement yesterday . this episode raise significant constitutional issue . I have therefore ask the Clerks to consider whether any lesson need to be learn from this case . if so , I will report back to the House in due course . oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Nuclear Power what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on the future of nuclear power in Wales . the UK Labour Government have announce the large nuclear building programme in a generation , invest £ 14 . 2 billion in Sizewell C and select Rolls - Royce SMR to build the UK ' s first small modular reactor . the memorandum of understanding between the Welsh Government and Sizewell C Consortium could bring £ 900 million - worth of job into the Welsh nuclear supply chain . the Government also recognise Wylfa as one of the UK ' s top site for future nuclear development . I thank the Minister for that answer . nuclear must be an important part of our energy security strategy . it be both clean and reliable , and create good job for local community . what more can the Secretary of State do to encourage and incentivise new nuclear power in Wales and across all part of the United Kingdom ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , great British Energy Nuclear have confirm that , subject to final Government approval and contract signature , it have select Rolls - Royce SMR to build the UK ' s first small modular reactor . no decision have yet be take on siting . we will be set out our plan in due course . far to that , as I have already mention , the project at Sizewell C will create enough power for 6 million home and in the peak of construction support 10 , 000 job . it will boost supply chain across the UK . some 70 % of the construction value be predict to go to 3 , 500 british supplier , include company such as William Hare Group in south Wales , support new job in construction , welding and hospitality . I be thrilled to hear that Boccard will today be open its new nuclear manufacturing facility in north Wales . do the Minister agree that north Wales have the skill and the site to realise the economic potential of our nuclear industry , and two Labour Governments ready to deliver on it ? absolutely ; I agree with my hon . friend . I be very pleased indeed today that Boccard be open its new nuclear manufacturing facility in Deeside . this be an example of the UK Government and the Welsh Government work together to onshore our nuclear supply chain , thus safeguard 59 job in this instance and create in excess of 150 new position . Spending Review 2025 what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the spending review 2025 on Wales . what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the spending review 2025 on Wales . through the spending review , we be provide a record £ 22 . 4 billion per year on average for the Welsh Government ; invest at least £ 445 million in Welsh rail ; invest £ 211 million a year in local growth funding ; and provide £ 118 million of new funding for coal tip safety . this Labour Government be invest in Wales ' s economy , public service and people . we have end conservative austerity . I be pleased to see funding for a number of transport project in Wales in the spending review , not least because my city of Edinburgh be now link directly by rail to the Secretary of State ' s city of Cardiff . Lumo , which run service in Scotland through open access , be hope to begin a service through south Wales . do the Minister agree with I that the spending review present a fantastic opportunity for such project , which create job , strengthen the Union and boost the UK ' s economy ? I very much agree with the hon . Lady about the benefit to the Union of the significant investment that this Government be make in transport . I be very happy to take away her comment on Lumo and open access , and talk to the Rail Minister on her behalf . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State explain in evidence to the Welsh Affairs Committee last week that Wales will receive a Barnett consequential of some £ 200 million as a result of transport announcement for english mayoral combine authority area make in the lead up to the spending review . could the Secretary of State clarify whether she be refer to the transport for city region funding , which be announce on 4 June ? the Chief Secretary to the Treasury state in an answer to a write question that it be not possible to identify the specific Barnett consequential arise from that programme . my understanding be that the just over £ 200 million figure that I refer to in my evidence to the Welsh Affairs Committee relate to the combined mayoral authority announcement that be make prior to the spending review . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . I be delighted that the £ 500 million announce for the steel industry in the spending review have already be translate into boot on the ground and high - vis jacket with the commencement of the building of the electric arc furnace , safeguard 5 , 000 job . will the Secretary of State join I in welcome the fantastic progress that have already be make in the steel industry and in supply chain all across Wales ? I thank the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee for her question . Monday be a really significant day for Welsh steelmaking . I be at the groundbreaking ceremony to begin construction of the electric arc furnace , which will be one of the large in the world , secure 5 , 000 job and the future of steelmaking in Port Talbot for year to come . it have be make possible by £ 1 . 25 billion of investment , include £ 500 million from this government , as well as our £ 80 million to support worker and the wide steel community , and will benefit not just Port Talbot but downstream site . this have be a really challenging time for steelworker across Wales , but I think this week mark a real turning point , secure a bright future for year to come . as a result of the UK Government ' s half a billion pound investment in the future of steel in Port Talbot , construction have now begin on the new electric arc furnace . will the Secretary of State share what this fantastic news mean for Port Talbot and the surround community , like my own of Neath and Swansea East ? the Government ' s investment in the electric arc furnace show how serious our commitment be to the steel industry , not just in south Wales but across the UK . it be why we have slash energy cost for steel producer and other energy - intensive industry through the industrial strategy , strengthen procurement rule to use even more UK steel in construction , ensure that the UK be the only country in the world not pay 50 % tariff to the United States , and boost trade defence to protect the sector against foreign import . the steel strategy , which we will publish later in the year , will also deliver up to £ 2 . 5 billion of investment to help to maintain job and growth . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the UK Government say that Wales be get record - break funding to tackle NHS waiting list , but for my constituent Melanie Walker , the reality be the opposite . after wait 59 week for a hip operation , she have now be tell she must wait another 45 , because Powys Teaching Health Board be artificially extend waiting time for patient treat in Shropshire and Herefordshire to match low Welsh average — a cost - cut move drive by the Welsh Government . do the Secretary of State think that be fair to Melanie or consistent with her Government ' s pledge to reduce waiting time ? I be very sorry to hear about Melanie ' s situation . however , I would say to the hon . Gentleman that his party be in government with the Conservatives during the coalition year . that Government deliver horrible austerity on Wales , which lead to public service in Wales be degrade . his party be the architect of that . the Chancellor say that cut red tape for banker will trickle down to household . [ interruption . ] the 2008 financial crash teach we that that be utter nonsense . [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State have just mention thing that happen in the past ; in 2023 , she say : " 12 year of ' trickle - down ' and ' trickle - out ' growth strategy have fail to deliver for Britain . " do she stand by what she say in opposition , or do she now toe the line for the sake of the Chancellor ' s friend in the City ? I apologise to the right hon . Lady ; I be afraid I do not hear the start of her question . on tax and what the Chancellor have talk about , we stand by our manifesto commitment not to increase income tax , employee national insurance contribution or vat . the Chancellor have say that it would be irresponsible to write future Budgets month in advance , especially give the global situation . there be clearly cost and implication to every decision this Parliament make , but we remain focused on grow our economy in Wales and across the UK . that be one way of avoid answer the question , Mr Speaker . my point be that Labour ' s skewed sense of fairness do not stop at prioritise the interest of the bank over other ; it be also hit our farmer and rural community . the Farmers Union of Wales have warn that Labour ' s plan reform to agricultural property relief will do irreversible damage to the Welsh family farm . look ahead to next week ' s Royal Welsh Show , will the Secretary of State agree at last that what we really need be a tax on extreme wealth , instead of a tax on those who feed we and sustain our rural economy ? at the autumn Budget , we demonstrate our commitment to our fiscal rule while maintain high level of investment to rebuild our public service — an investment in farming as well — after the mess that the Tories leave behind . we have repeatedly say that those with the broad shoulder should bear the great burden , and that have be reflect in the decision that we have take so far . tax change , as the right hon . member know , be a matter for the Chancellor . Industrial Strategy what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the industrial strategy , publish on 23 June 2025 , on Wales . our industrial strategy will unlock growth right across Wales and support ten of thousand of new job . we will target area of strength from aerospace in north Wales to the world ' s first compound semiconductor cluster in south Wales . we have announce a new centre for doctoral training in compound semiconductor lead by Swansea university , plus a new defence growth deal and £ 30 million for a local innovation partnership fund — to name just a few development . like many member in this House , I welcome the Government ' s industrial strategy and its focus on growth for our local community . across Wales , we have a number of former mining town , which face the challenge of retrain and upskille their local workforce . my constituency of Tamworth , a former mining town , face similar challenge . will the Minister tell I how the industrial strategy will support former mining town across Wales and in my constituency of Tamworth ? there be many job opportunity come to Wales through the industrial strategy . we be also ensure that local community have the money available to secure the safety of the coal tip , which be the industrial legacy of those community . that mean £ 118 million of additional funding on top of the £ 25 million that we have already dedicate to those area . as my hon . friend will know , we be also forge ahead with the industrial zone and freeport in Wales and also the supply chain for the various industry that I mention in my previous answer , and they will include , I know , industry in Tamworth . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let we have some reality . today , inflation hit 3 . 6 % , the high across the G7 . this UK Labour Government have a glossy shine on their so - call industrial strategy , but it be simply prove that their action and ethos deliver only bad outcome for Wales . business across Wales be now face a disgraceful double whammy , as just this week labour in Cardiff pass plan to impose a dire tourism tax . have the Minister actually carry out any meaningful assessment with the Welsh Government of how many job will be lose , as the vital 100 , 000 - strong Welsh tourism sector will be impact by this tax and by the fail approach to Wales by the two Labour government ? the Welsh tourism sector be thrive . last year , british resident take over 7 million overnight trip to Wales and spend more than £ 2 billion . as the shadow Secretary of State will know , more than 40 country and holiday destination around the world , include Greece , Amsterdam , Barcelona and California , have introduce a form of visitor levy , and many of we have pay taxis abroad without even noticing . if a visitor levy be introduce by all Welsh local authority , it could raise up to £ 33 million , which would help support the long - term thrive industry in Wales , as well as provide facility such as toilet that local people can use . I be confident that the Welsh Government will work with business and tourist alike to get this right . cross - border Rail Connectivity what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to improve rail connectivity between north Wales and the north of England . what step she be take with the Welsh Government to improve cross - border rail connectivity . we be invest at least £ 445 million — an historic investment — in Welsh rail , to right the year of underfunding by previous Conservative Governments and to unleash Wales ' s economic potential . this funding will support the permanent closing of level crossing on the north Wales main line , enable increase service across north Wales that will improve cross - border connectivity , create job and boost economic growth . the Chancellor ' s announcement of at least £ 445 million for Welsh rail will be transformative for Welsh passenger and well connect worker with job across north Wales and Manchester , but only if we be pull in the same direction . what step will be take by the Wales Office to ensure that national government , devolve government and our combine authority in Greater Manchester be work together to improve connectivity and bring the people of the north - west and north Wales close together ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be why I be pleased to see the Welsh Government ' s Cabinet Secretary for Transport , Ken Skates recently launch Network North Wales in Wrexham . that really exciting plan will well connect community in north Wales and north - west England through more rail and bus service and great integration . benefit will include 50 % more timetabled service on the north Wales main line , boost cross - border connectivity and drive economic growth between north Wales and north - west England . in addition , the investment in rail infrastructure will boost capacity on the Wrexham to Liverpool line . Bore da . do the Secretary of State agree that the introduction of the midland rail hub project , which will see an additional train per hour from Cardiff in south Wales to the midland , be a great sign that this Government be invest not just in Wales and the midland but in the whole country ? I thank my hon . friend for his question — and for his very good Welsh . the first phase of the midland rail hub will enable additional train between Birmingham and south Wales , strengthen cross - border connectivity between Wales and England . that be absolutely what this Government ' s investment be about : create job and growth and connect Wales and England . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let we have another reality check . information provide to we by the Department for Transport confirm that conservative expenditure on Welsh rail exceed £ 5 billion over our time in office , underpin by our plan to deliver the north Wales main line . yet in a January sitting of the Welsh Affairs Committee , the Welsh Secretary roundly criticise Welsh rail before claim : " that be a direct consequence , I be afraid , of the last 14 year of underfunding " . as usual , this Government ' s word and belief and the reality be pole apart . this Labour Government be now offer peanut — just a miserable £ 400 million over an entire decade . will the Secretary of State retract her past claim to the Welsh Affairs Committee and the similar one that have be make on the Wales Office Government social medium account ? no , I will not . Oxford to Cambridge Rail Line what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the classification of the Oxford to Cambridge rail line as an England and Wales transport project on Wales . the hon . Member will know that that be an error make under the previous Conservative Government . heavy rail infrastructure be reserve in Wales and , like every heavy rail project in England , Barnett consequential do not apply . the UK Government ' s rail network enhancement pipeline fund East West Rail — or Ox - Cam rail , as it be more commonly know — and also directly fund project in Wales , such as the historic at least £ 445 million investment in rail in Wales that be announce in the June spending review . the Government have claim that list the Oxford to Cambridge rail line as " England - only " on past document be just an accounting error by the Conservative Government and that the project have not be reclassify to deprive Wales of funding , but four separate Government document list it as " England - only " , and over £ 1 million in Barnett consequential be already pay to Wales on that basis . do the Secretary of State honestly stand by her claim that it have just be reclassify and that this be not intend to deprive Wales of fair funding ? as I have just explain , an error be make by the previous Conservative Government . heavy rail be and always be reserve . the Welsh Government will not be require to re - pay any Barnett consequential provide to they as a result of any error that take place under the Conservative Government . the Welsh Government allocate over £ 1 billion to transport in their recent Budget . this investment come after 14 year of critical under - investment by the Conservatives , and it should hopefully provide funding to station such as Ely Mill in my constituency . can the Secretary of State tell I why the Welsh Conservatives and Plaid Cymru vote against this investment , which would mean extra funding to fix our road , build new train and improve our bus ? the Opposition ' s decision to vote against the additional funding be inexplicable , as be their decision to vote against extra money for the NHS , for education and for business — I could go on . they stand here and criticise this government while they vote against extra money for Wales . family Farms what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on family farm in Wales . the Government be steadfastly commit to family farm in Wales , which be why we protect the farm budget at its current level and allocate £ 337 million to the Welsh Government at the autumn Budget . furthermore , at the UK - EU summit on 19 May the Prime Minister announce that the UK would deliver a new agrifood deal with the European Union . routine sanitary and phytosanitary border check will be eliminate , with less paperwork and few cost . british good such as dairy , fish , egg and red meat currently subject to 100 % documentary check and up to 30 % physical check will see those remove entirely . although the aim of the sustainable farming scheme be laudable , many farmer across Wales be express real concern about its complexity , the potential reduction in food production and the adequacy of the financial support on offer . what assurance can the Minister give that the scheme will be simplify , sufficiently fund and implement in a way that support both the environmental goal and the economic viability of Welsh farming community ? the scheme will have a transition period , with the basic payment scheme available for those not in the SFS , although that will be reduce by 40 % next year . the Welsh Government be prioritise their money on the SFS to encourage farmer to join the scheme and start benefit from it . the Farming Union of Wales have say that the plan provide " workable payment rate and much need stability for the sector . " the Welsh Government ' s budget contain over £ 300 million to support Welsh farmer . be it not the case that Plaid Cymru and the Tories put Welsh farmer ’ livelihood at risk by vote against that crucial money ? indeed , it be absolutely shocking that Plaid Cymru and the Tories in the Senedd vote against a budget that be give that money to Welsh farmer . offshore Wind what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for offshore wind in Wales . in June , the Crown Estate announce that it will partner with Equinor and Gwynt Glas to develop float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . those project will create over 5 , 000 new job and will leverage £ 1 . 4 billion in private investment . this will deliver generational change in Wales . we be support the industry with an £ 80 million investment in Port Talbot port and a £ 1 billion clean energy supply chain fund to support offshore wind across the UK . Meur ras ha myttin da , Mr Speaker — or should I say " Diolch yn fawr " ? the propose float offshore wind farm in the Celtic sea lie between the two ancient celtic nation of Wales and Cornwall . the Celtic sea not only will be a valuable source of renewable energy but have the potential to create thousand of job across south Wales and Cornwall . do the Secretary of State agree that local funding for economic development be essential to realise that potential and that , work hand in hand with Cornwall , Wales will play a key role in help to unleash the cornish celtic tiger ? my hon . friend be right that float offshore wind present significant opportunity for Wales and the UK . in the leasing round that just take place we have a first - mover advantage in this technology of the future . early this month , the Energy Secretary grant development consent for the Mona offshore wind farm , which will bolster north Wales ' s offshore wind industry . all of that be contribute to secure our energy independence and bring down bill for people in Cornwall , Wales and the rest of the UK . I call Jim Shannon . [ interruption . ] I know that cheer be not for I , Mr Speaker . when it come to offshore wind in Wales , the water in which that offshore wind energy will be generate be the same water that flow by Northern Ireland , the same water that flow by England and the same water that flow by Scotland . be it not time to have an offshore wind strategy for the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? if we do it together , we will do it well . I always believe that we do thing well when we do they together . Defence Spending what assessment she have make of the potential impact of increase in defence spending on Wales . we be committed to spend 5 % of the UK ' s GDP on national security by 2035 . the spending review invest to keep our people safe , with a £ 10 . 9 billion real - term increase to the Ministry of Defence budget . this will help grow the Welsh economy and our thriving defence sector , which be home to over 160 company employ more than 20 , 000 people right across Wales . this government ' s commitment to spend 5 % of gdp on national security will be transformational for Wales and for my constituency , where thousand be employ in the defence sector and where we welcome a £ 15 billion boost for the Atomic Weapons Establishment . do the Secretary of State and the Minister agree that both our national security and our local economy be well off with Labour ? absolutely ; our ambition be to become a defence industrial superpower by 2025 . we be make defence an engine for growth , boost prosperity , job and security for work people across the UK . as part of this , we will establish the UK defence innovation fund , with £ 400 million to fund and grow UK - base company . we be also launch the new regional defence growth deal across the UK , include a cluster in Wales . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 16 July . there have always be support across this House for the United Kingdom fulfil our obligation to Afghans who serve alongside british force . we warn in opposition about conservative management of this policy , and yesterday the Defence Secretary set out the full extent of the failing that we inherit : a major data breach , a super - injunction and a secret route that have already cost hundred of million of pound . minister who serve in the Conservative Government have serious question to answer about how this be ever allow to happen . the Chair of the Defence Committee have indicate that he intend to hold further inquiry . I welcome that and I hope that those who be in office at the time will welcome that scrutiny . President Macron ' s state visit last week see we secure historic agreement : co - ordinate our nuclear deterrent ; a major investment in Sizewell C ; and a landmark return deal , which be a crucial next step in restore order to our immigration system . tomorrow I will host Chancellor Merz for further talk on our security and the economy . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . family in Burton and Uttoxeter be watch their smart meter like hawk , and dread the moment when their energy bill land on the doormat . I therefore welcome labour ' s warm home discount , which will mean £ 150 off energy bill for million of people across this country , provide meaningful support in these difficult time . will the Prime Minister set out how that will help support family in my constituency and across the country ? I meet my hon . friend ' s constituent Nicola in her kitchen , and she tell I how hard she be work to support her three child , but that the past decade have let she down , with false promise and public service a wreck . she tell I about the difference the warm home discount will make , and that £ 150 off her energy bill — she have a meter in her kitchen , if I recall , record how much energy she be use — would make all the difference to she . I promise Nicola and my hon . friend that there be much more to come . I call the Leader of the Opposition . yesterday , the head of the Office for Budget Responsibility warn the Government that high and high level of taxis be bad for growth . do the Prime Minister agree ? Mr Speaker , I will tell you what be bad for growth : 14 year of a Tory Government . that mean stagnant growth for 14 year , leave a £ 22 billion black hole . in the first quarter of this year we have achieve : the high growth in the G7 , which we promise before the election ; investment of £ 120 billion in this country , which be a record in the first year of any Government ; and three trade deal , all of which will boost growth . the Prime Minister be talk about what he have achieve , but we have just hear that inflation be up again — the bad in the G7 . we leave he with 2 % inflation . we have borrow up , unemployment up and tax up under his government . the fact be that the Prime Minister do not get it , so let I tell he . his Budget last year have high taxis . that be why the economy be contract . the Government have say that they will not put up taxis for people on modest income , but they also seem incapable of explain who be in that category , so can the Prime Minister clear up the confusion and tell we what he think a modest income be ? I think of the work people across this country who put in every day and do not get back what they deserve . that be who we be work for , and that be who we be fix the country for . they be the sort of people that work hard but have not necessarily get the saving to buy themselves out of problem . that be who we be work for , and that be why we put the national living wage up , with an extra £ 1 , 400 . the national minimum wage be up , with an extra £ 2 , 500 a year . the triple lock mean pension go up by £ 470 . and of course , we be extend childcare , open free breakfast club and extend free school meal . we know exactly who we be work for . the right hon . Lady come here every week and just talk the country down . I be not talk of the country down ; I be talk the Prime Minister down . I ask he what a modest income be . he answer with what a work person be . he do not know what a modest income be , and they can not even define who work people be . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say that work people be people who get a payslip , but million of self - employ people do not get a payslip , so be the self - employ next in line for a labour tax raise ? the self - employ be the very people who suffer repeatedly under the Conservatives ' watch , particularly during covid , as I remember , when they do not get the support that they need . the right hon . Lady talk the country down and she cherry - pick . since we have be in government , we have create 380 , 000 job , the employment rate be up and inactivity be down — the complete opposite of what we inherit . I do not know where these 3 , 000 job be come from . unemployment have go up every month under his government . perhaps the Prime Minister should speak to farmer and small business people and find out what those work people think about his government . but that be not all , because we know that the Chancellor be launch a review into pension contribution . it be as clear as day why this be . it be because the Government be consider tax they . do the Prime Minister agree with I that a tax on pension contribution be a tax on work people ? we make absolutely clear manifesto commitment , which the right hon . Lady ask I about last week , and we be keep to they . I be not go to write the Budget month out from the Budget . I be proud of the decision that we take to invest in our NHS and to invest in our public service — all decision that the Conservatives oppose . it be no wonder that after the first year of a Labour Government , business confidence be at a nine - year high . that be long than she have be in government — [ hon . member : " withdraw ! " ] I be not withdraw that ; I be go to repeat it . business confidence be at a nine - year high . the Prime Minister say that he be not go to write the Budget , but his Chancellor be on the front of the Daily Mirror talk about what she be go to do on taxis , so why can he not do the same in the Chamber ? I ask he about pension contribution . the truth be that he do not want to talk about pension contribution . it be all right for the Prime Minister , because he have his own special law to stop his personal pension from be tax . but let we be honest : this be really about choice . my party know that there be an alternative to tax rise : cut spending — something that the Government be too scared , or perhaps too weak , to do . we offer to work with he to reform welfare and make meaningful saving , but his refusal send a signal and now the cost of borrowing be rise . the Budget be in November , which be month away and the market may not wait . what will the Prime Minister be do over the summer to get a grip on the cost of borrowing ? the Conservatives leave the most incredible mess in the economy , and now they think that they can lecture other . just last week their chairman say that they have do the necessary apologising for the 14 year of failure . I do not hear an apology for the low living standard in live history . I do not hear an apology for the £ 22 billion black hole . I do not hear an apology for the Liz Truss mini - Budget . maybe the right hon . Lady would like to stand up and make that apology now . the Prime Minister be not plan to do anything this summer to fix the economy . the shadow of the last Budget be hang over the entire country . just yesterday , only the Conservatives support the two - child benefit cap , because only the Conservatives believe in live within our mean — not labour , not the Liberal Democrats , not Reform . but it be the end of term , so why don ' t we go through the Prime Minister ' s end - of - term scorecard ? the economy be contract , inflation be the high in the G7 , unemployment be up every month under this government , spending be out of control , borrowing cost be more expensive than in Greece — and this be just the first year . the Labour party should be ashamed of what it be do to the country . [ interruption . ] Labour member can shake their head as much as they like , but the fact be that this summer they will have to go to their constituent and explain why the Government have be make such a mess over the past 12 month . and be it not the case , give that this be just their first year , that the bad be yet to come ? we be happily go to go to our constituent . we will tell they that we promise 2 million extra NHS appointment and have deliver 4 million extra appointment . I have to upgrade that — it be now 4 . 5 million extra appointment , so we will tell our constituent that . then we will tell they about the free school meal we be roll out , the free breakfast club , the free childcare , and school uniform cost . we will tell they about that . when we have do that , we will move on to affordable house and tell they about the £ 39 billion we be invest . when we be finish with that , we will tell they about the rail and road upgrade across the country , the £ 120 billion investment and , of course , the three trade deal — and we be only just get start . the Prime Minister will never know exactly how much it mean to victim of the trouble in Northern Ireland , from right across society , when he come , look they in their eye and promise they that no murderer would be immune from prosecution . can he tell we when he last speak to the Taoiseach about the shared approach to this issue , and will he recommit today to those victim , to ensure that no murderer will be see to be above the law ? this be a really important issue , and can I begin by say that I have a profound respect and debt to our veteran who serve ? this be a complicated issue and we have to get it right . veteran be at risk because of the false promise of the last government . let we be clear : the last Government make a false promise of immunity that do not exist . it be unlawful , it be strike down , and it be undeliverable . their fail legacy Act leave veteran expose with no settled process . we will create a secure , transparent system that protect veteran from unjustified persecution and give victim , family and survivor the confidence they need in the process . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s word about the shocking afghan data breach under the previous Government , which be keep secret for three year ? he will have our support if he decide to pursue a public inquiry . I know that the Prime Minister will agree that the shocking rise of antisemitism that we have see since Hamas ' s 7 October terror attack have no place in our society . british Jews should not have to live in fear of hatred , racism and abuse on our street or online . a new report from the Board of Deputies ' commission on antisemitism , chair by Lord Mann and Dame Penny Mordaunt , have set out 10 recommendation to tackle this appalling scourge . will the Prime Minister study this report , and will his Government respond to it in full ? yes , we will . we must fight antisemitism wherever we find it , as we must fight all hate offence , crime and incident wherever we find they . I thank the Prime Minister for that reply . I hope that we will see more action to tackle antisemitism . turn to the middle east , the world be look on in horror at the scene from Gaza , and now Netanyahu ' s Ministers want to lock the whole population of Gaza into what be effectively a giant prison — a plan that would clearly amount to ethnic cleansing , as former israeli Prime Minister Olmert have say . do the Prime Minister agree that that be utterly abhorrent and unacceptable ? will he make it clear to the israeli Government that the UK will not stand idly by and will act , start by sanction Prime Minister Netanyahu himself ? I be appal by the suggestion in relation to Gaza , just as I be appal by the report of yet more civilian be kill while try to access aid . on both front , I be appal by what we be see and hear , and we raise that regularly , as the right hon . Gentleman would expect . in relation to the civilian be kill , I would expect that to be fully and transparently investigate , with full accountability for any failing . Israel must clearly put in place measure that properly protect civilian , in line with international law , and that be the case that we be press repeatedly . alongside that , we want to see an immediate ceasefire , so that the remain hostage can be bring out , aid can be get in at volume and at speed , and a political process can be open , which in my view be the only way in which we be go to get a lasting solution . last week , four - year - old Eli Testa be kill in Rawtenstall cemetery when a memorial stone fall on he . all of Rossendale be shock by this tragedy , so I hope the Prime Minister will join I in offer his deep condolence to Eli ' s parent and family . family in Rossendale be also deeply concerned about report that reform - lead Lancashire county council be consider cut to nursery funding , which would raise cost for work parent and might force some nursery to close . if this be an example of the sort of efficiency that reform be consider , then all of Lancashire — indeed , all of we — should be worried . will the Prime Minister join I in ask Lancashire county council to think again ? I send my deep condolence to Eli ' s friend and family . I join my hon . friend in urge the new Reform council to think again and change its mind on damaging cut that hit child and young family . my hon . friend be do a much well job than his predecessor , the conservative party chairman under Liz Truss , who have now join Reform . that prove once again that if people vote Tory they get Reform , and if they vote reform they get the Tories . while both party be cut service at home , we support family with free school meal and free breakfast club , and by extend free childcare . Jack Straw tell we that the Human Rights Act 1998 place on we no expectation that we will remedy a declaration of incompatibility issue by a court , so the Prime Minister be wrong to say that the legacy Act be strike down . his own proposal , which open the door to compensation to Gerry Adams and place in jeopardy our own servicemen , present enormous difficulty to those of we who have serve — that be increasingly the case on the Prime Minister ' s own Benches . will he consider that ? the fail legacy Act be strike down by the court in Northern Ireland , and that leave veteran expose . we be create a secure , transparent system that protect veteran from unjustified persecution , but that also give victim , family and survivor the confidence that they need in the process . worker in Rochdale on the minimum wage receive a much need pay rise this summer , thank to this Government , but honest business be be undermine by the menace of illegal working , particularly by illegal migrant from Iran and Iraq in bogus barber shop and fake vape shop . do the Prime Minister agree that we need to speed up the roll - out of digital id , particularly to help our police and immigration staff crack down on this grey market that ruin our high street and undercut the pay of british worker ? my hon . friend be an excellent champion for Rochdale and , I know , a strong supporter of his local police and trading standard team . since we come to power , we have ramp up enforcement raid on illegal working . arrest have go up by 50 % , and we be tighten the law on delivery driver . Digital ID will help we to tackle illegal working , and we be roll out the use of e - visas to have digital record of immigration status and allow on - the - spot check of anybody ' s right to work . severe pregnancy sickness — hyperemesis gravidarum , or HG — can mean vomit more than 20 time a day . it cause physical discomfort , acute malnutrition and severe dehydration , which often lead to hospitalisation . it have profound and long - last mental health consequence . it be recently report that a woman take her own life after be deny access to the only licensed treatment , Xonvea — tragically , her unborn child die too . the drug be license and available , yet woman face a cruel postcode lottery to access it . will the Prime Minister work urgently with the Department of Health and Social Care to end this scandal , so that every woman who need Xonvea can get it , wherever she live ? will he meet with I and campaigner to look at this as a matter of urgency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this really important issue . I be obviously incredibly sorry to hear about the tragic case that he mention . as he will know , the availability of this drug be regulate across the NHS by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence , which make decision on which treatment provide the good care for patient while maintain value for money for the taxpayer . I will make sure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to see what more can be do to get this treatment to patient who need it . in Stockport , approximately 20 % of family live in social housing . after Stockport Liberal Democrat and conservative councillor block the Greater Manchester spatial framework proposal in 2020 , the need for social housing be even more critical . far too many family be live in insecure , overcrowded accommodation and waiting year for a suitable family home . I welcome labour ' s record - break £ 39 billion investment in social and affordable housing , and I want to ensure that community such as mine in Stockport be prioritise . can the Prime Minister confirm that these home will be build and will be affordable ? will he look again at suspend the right to buy ? we be deliver the big boost to social and affordable housing in a generation , and we be proud to do so . our £ 39 billion investment will deliver around 300 , 000 social and affordable home , with at least 60 % of home deliver for social rent . while we do not intend to remove the right to buy , which help social tenant to get on the property ladder , we be reform the scheme to protect social housing stock and encourage council to deliver more new home . a much well understanding of the particular need of autistic and neurodiverse child be vital to expand capacity in mainstream education for pupil with special educational need and disability . as the Prime Minister look at the SEND Bill over the summer , can I urge he to introduce mandatory training for all teacher and staff on autism and neurodiversity ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that contribution , because parent and child have be fail far too often . we be commit an additional £ 1 billion to SEND , but there must be meaningful reform alongside it , and new teacher must have the appropriate training . we be commit to review that and to work with parent and teacher , and we will take away his suggestion . I invite he and other across the House to work with we on this important reform , because I think this issue have be raise with I more than any other at Prime Minister ' s question . it be clearly a broken system ; it need reform . if we can work together across the House to get it right , I think that be the least we owe to parent and child across the country . I com - mend the Prime Minister on his work to tackle the arbitrary detention of british citizen abroad and warmly welcome the creation of a special envoy . he will know of the anguish of the family of Jimmy Lai , Ryan Cornelius , Alaa Abd el - Fattah , Jagtar Singh Johal and other . can the Prime Minister tell we when he anticipate the appointment of the envoy will happen ? will they have real power , like their counterpart in Canada and the United States , to help bring our people home ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on the all - party parliamentary group on arbitrary detention and hostage affair , champion the plight of british national face the most difficult circumstance overseas ? we routinely raise these case with international counterpart , as he would expect , and we be deeply committed to get they home and unite with their love one . as part of our work to strengthen support for british national overseas , we be work at pace to get the envoy role set up , and I will make sure that he be keep update about that . government plan for english devolution and NHS reform suggest that integrate care board should align with new strategic authority . the Government ' s plan for Bedfordshire will not currently achieve that , so what assurance can the Prime Minister provide that local NHS reorganisation will be good value for money , improve local accountability and deliver the healthcare service that be need to serve my constituent in rural Mid Bedfordshire , include the much - need gp surgery in Wixams ? the hon . Gentleman ' s point about good value for money and accountability be really important . they be embed in the work we be do with the NHS at the moment , which be improve on our watch — not only the waiting list , but in other respect . the 10 - year plan for the NHS , which be intend to ensure that the NHS be fit for the future , have a number of principle , include the principle of local accountability . on 11 June , Alexander Dennis announce that it be plan to stop bus manufacturing in Scotland . my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) and I have meet the worker , the trade union , the company and both UK and Scottish Government Ministers to see how closure can be avert . Alexander Dennis need commitment to order for 2025 and 2026 , and elect mayor be ideally place to do this . our industrial strategy be right when it say that where thing be make , and by whom , matter . as such , can the Prime Minister assure Alexander Dennis and the worker that he believe bus manufacturing should have a future in Larbert and Falkirk ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter . it be a deeply concern time for the worker and their family in Falkirk . I agree with he , and we be work with mayor and local leader to develop a pipeline of future order for zero emission bus , which be an important aspect of this issue . the Minister for local transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , be host an urgent meeting of the bus manufacturing expert panel . while Labour mayor in England be order scottish bus , the SNP be order bus from China , just like it order ship from Turkey and Poland , not from scottish shipyard . the SNP should be back scottish worker . I begin by warmly congratulate the Prime Minister on his first year in office . I acknowledge that the labour manifesto be beautifully write , deeply move and , like that other great blockbuster of hope and redemption , " the Salt Path " , a total pack of lie . with joblessness , inflation and debt ballooning , with his personal rating collapse , and with his Back Benchers on a work to rule , could the Prime Minister recommend — order . come on — let we get on with the question . could the Prime Minister recommend a summer recess read , in order to take all our mind off the calamitous journey on which he and the Chancellor have embark ? from look at the Opposition Benches , I think most conservative Back Benchers be already on their summer recess . we be very proud of our manifesto — it be a very successful manifesto , give we a landslide victory — and now we be very proud to be implement it . let we be clear in this House : Israel be starve palestinian child . that be a war crime . Israel be kill palestinian child as they queue for food . that be a war crime . our Government have quite rightly impose thousand of sanction on Russia for its war crime in Ukraine . how many more horror must we witness before the Prime Minister act with the same scale of sanction against Israel to stop this genocide ? do palestinian life not matter ? as I say early , I be appal by report of more civilian be kill in Gaza , particularly when they be try to access aid . each of those incident need to be fully and transparently investigate , with accountability for any failing . that , of course , have to happen alongside the ceasefire that be desperately need and that we be work hard with other to achieve , in order to release all of the hostage who remain , but also to protect civilian and get much more aid into Gaza at speed and at volume . I can see why you call these session Prime Minister ' s question and not Prime Minister ' s answer , Mr Speaker . More ! order . if this carry on , there will be no more . come on , Lincoln Jopp . thank you , Mr Speaker . follow the magnificent success of the England cricket team early this week and the triumphal return of Mr Jofra Archer , do the Prime Minister agree that what he need from his Ministers over the next 12 month be more pace and less spin ? my Ministers have deliver on the NHS , on the economy , on rail , etc . the hon . Gentleman need a break . successive Conservative Governments fail to invest in the transport infrastructure of the north - east , but the Labour Government be already change that with the £ 1 . 8 billion that be recently secure for the region . upgrade Moor Farm and Seaton Burn roundabout can build on that , unlock growth , and be support by local people and business . do the Prime Minister share my disappointment that rather than support my campaign for upgrade , the conservative leadership in Northumberland county council be actively undermine my lobbying effort to deliver this game changer for the north - east ? my hon . friend be do a superb job for Northumberland , and I be happy to set out what we have deliver . we have deliver more than £ 400 million of funding for Northumberland county council this year — a 5 . 8 % increase — as well as an 80 % increase in the number of home on which construction have start in my hon . friend ' s area , a near £ 13 million increase in funding for Northumbria police , and 14 free breakfast club in Northumberland , support more than 3 , 000 child . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . during my meeting with guest who be in my constituency under the Homes for Ukraine scheme , they have tell I that they be worried about their visa run out , even with the 18 - month extension . they see report of Ukrainians be refuse asylum in the United Kingdom because it be say to be safe to return to Ukraine , even while Putin ' s missile explode in record number in ukrainian city . some of their child be work through two or three - year education course , and be frightened of have to leave . will the Prime Minister meet they , and I , to hear about their plight and offer they some hope in this uncertain and dangerous world ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter . we be proud to have offer or extend sanctuary to more than 300 , 000 Ukrainians and their family throughout the operation of the visa scheme since the invasion in 2022 . we do need to provide certainty and security for Ukrainians in the United Kingdom , and we will provide an additional 18 month ' permission to remain in the UK as well as continue right to live , work and study here . in 2017 I lead a Select Committee inquiry that warn of an emerge disaster in special educational need and disability service . those warning go unheeded by the Conservatives , who leave behind a broken system , which even they have since admit be , " lose , lose , lose . " can the Prime Minister confirm that this Labour Government ' s rebuild SEND system will be shape by listen to the need of SEN family , never again ignore but serve in the good tradition of a Labour Government ? my hon . friend be right . I think there be general agreement across the House that the system be break , just like almost everything the Conservatives touch at the end of 14 miserable year . it do not work for parent and it let child down , and we will reform it . we be already invest an additional £ 1 billion , but we need a system that truly support every child . we be develop proposal , and I want to work across the House in order to secure the right outcome . for the final question , I call Pippa Heylings . yet again , we be suffer record - break heatwave and drought . that be worry people in my constituency , which be both the fast - grow and the most water - stress area in the country . the propose fen reservoir be important , but will provide water only for the already ambitious house building plan , not the thousand of new home that the Government propose . do the Prime Minister agree that the water crisis in Greater Cambridge be a deal - breaker for the Government ' s growth plan , and will he , as a matter of urgency , help I to convene a ministerial roundtable with the Cambridge water scarcity group ? the hon . Lady be right to draw attention to the drought and , more generally , the question of reservoir . it be shocking that a new reservoir have not be build for a very , very long time — none at all in the previous 14 year . we be build now , and we be do that alongside the infrastructure and housing that we also need to build . we will work across the House on that . Sudan ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister if she will make a statement on Britain ' s response to the worsen situation in Sudan . Sudan be the bad humanitarian crisis on record . over 30 million people need aid , and 12 million people have be displace . Famine be spread fast , and new report confirm that the situation will deteriorate in the next three month . Cholera be also now widespread . lifesaving assistance continue to be block by the party . last month , five aid worker be kill in an appalling attack on a UN convoy that be deliver lifesave aid to those flee violence in El Fasher . the deliberate targeting of aid worker clearly violate international law . as the United Nations Security Council penholder on Sudan , the UK lead call for accountability for such attack , include through the UK - pen press statement on 12 June . last week , the International Criminal Court ' s Office of the Prosecutor find reasonable ground to believe that war crime and crime against humanity may well have be , and continue to be , commit in Darfur . the perpetrator must be hold to account . the UK continue to play a lead role in ensure that aid get to where it be most need . in April , the Foreign Secretary bring together a broad coalition of partner to build consensus on strengthen humanitarian access . the co - chair ' statement call on the party to facilitate humanitarian access in accordance with their commitment in the Jeddah declaration . over £ 810 million of funding for Sudan be announce , include £ 120 million of UK aid , which will support over 650 , 000 people this year . in the absence of a ceasefire , the humanitarian situation will only worsen . we continue to call on the war party to place the interest of the sudanese people over their pursuit of a military victory . the UK be work with our international partner to push the war party to return to the negotiating table and commit to a meaningful , sustainable ceasefire . any process that follow must be inclusive . we underline the importance of a return to civilian rule that be democratic and representative of the whole country . move by the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces to establish their own parallel government will only exacerbate de facto split , and could lead to the permanent partition of Sudan . that be in no one ' s interest . we will continue to use all diplomatic tool at our disposal to protect civilian , get aid to those who need it most , and support a Sudanese - lead peace process with civilian at its heart . thank you very much , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question today . I make no apology for raise the dire and desperate strait of the sudanese people again in this House , not least because Britain lead on the sudanese situation at the United Nations on behalf of all other nation . as the Minister say , the people of Sudan be in the throe of the bad humanitarian catastrophe in the world and the situation be worsen , even if such thing can hardly be imagine . early this month , the United Nations and international organisation report the mass displacement of ten of thousand of people follow the combatant force advance across the Kordofan state . there have be month of increase mobilisation of fighter , include the recruitment of child from across Darfur . as fight expand , the Kordofan state be the next deadly front . in the recent and welcome ministerial conference host by the Foreign Secretary , much - need money be raise , but the goal of a high - level contact group to drive political effort towards achieve a ceasefire and protect sudanese civilian meet with an impasse . we must accept that despite our effort the past two year have be a story of falter international endeavour where world event have cast Sudan into the shadow as its people have face only deepen peril . I ask the Minister three question . first , what lesson have the Government learn from the siege of El Fasher and the overwhelming of the camp for displace people at Zamzam to prepare for and protect civilian from the spread of violence across the Kordofan state ? how be the Government support the local emergency response room ? secondly , can she confirm that the prevention of atrocity remain a key pillar of british policy and be unaffected by the recent cut in the development budget ? thirdly , and finally , what be the Government do to advance international effort to protect civilian alongside their pursuit of a ceasefire ? be we to assume the Jeddah process be dead ? what discussion have she have with her counterpart in the United States over recent week ? I thank the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) for his question and his long - stand interest not just in Africa in general , but particularly in this awful conflict in Sudan . of course , Sudan be also a personal priority for the Foreign Secretary , which be why he bring together Foreign Ministers to try to find a resolution . the Prime Minister have reiterate that the UK will continue to play a key humanitarian role , evidence by the £ 120 million of UK aid announce for Sudan this year . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s question in relation to the work post - Jeddah , we be work to sustain the momentum of the action agree at the conference . we continue to work with multilateral institution , include the African Union , to ensure strong african leadership in response to the conflict . we have also join the EU - convene consultative group on Sudan in June and we have initiate a friend of Sudan group in Geneva to advance our work on the protection of civilian , because the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that international law in this regard place a heavy emphasis on prevention of conflict and of atrocity . we continue to identify opportunity to use our role as penholder on Sudan in the UN Security Council and to galvanise UN Security Council action on the conflict in Sudan . the right hon . Gentleman also specifically ask about the situation in the El Fasher camp and I want to reassure he that the UK be do all it can , but the question be always about access . we have the money , we have the worker ; it be access that we need in order to provide that lifesave aid . that be the nub of the issue , which we be work on . not a single person in my sudanese diaspora community in Sheffield have not be affect by the horrific violence in Sudan , but the most harrowing part for they be not the regular communication jam block parent from child and brother from sister , or the multiple displacement of million of the most vulnerable people , or indeed the famine rip through the population ; the bad part be that while this , the bad humanitarian crisis in the world , be break every boundary we know , world power continue to look away . the UK Government have a unique position as penholder for Sudan , and at the UN Security Council I appreciate that we call for a ceasefire through a resolution , but the resolution set no deadline for conclude the ceasefire and authorise no enforcement mission . so , Minister , what be we do to enforce accountability for the shameful complicity of state back the war side , and when will we push for an agreement to a ceasefire so the people of Sudan can be free from this horror ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a loud voice here on behalf her sudanese diaspora . the most important thing the UK can do to build on the momentum of the important London Sudan conference — bear in mind that we be the first to have such a conference — be to continue to base our work on the statement from its co - chair ; to continue , as she say , to use our role at the United Nations ; and to work through the new friend of Sudan group to keep push at the high level , use our position on the UN Security Council to galvanise its action and continue the important supply of aid into the region . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question , and my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) for pursue this matter . the situation in Sudan be dire . we be deeply concerned by the International Criminal Court ' s finding last week that there be reasonable ground to believe that war crime and crime against humanity may be be commit in Darfur . the humanitarian situation continue to deteriorate , with the UN warn on 30 June of drastic cut to life - save food aid for sudanese refugee flee to neighbouring country . Sudan have be identify as the global hunger hotspot of high concern , and without immediate humanitarian assistance , the risk be terrible . with recent attack on UN aid convoy , can the Minister provide her late assessment of the situation and the extent of aid block ? how be she ensure that UK aid — include the £ 120 million announce at the April Sudan conference — will reach those who need it , and that aid worker be protect ? more broadly , what new measure be the Government take to compel the war party into a ceasefire , to allow more aid in and to facilitate deconfliction for its delivery in the meantime ? how have the Minister support sudanese civilian and political force to engage in constructive dialogue process such as the Cairo conference , and what be her assessment of the effectiveness of these process ? despite the spending review , we be yet to understand what the 0 . 3 % figure mean for bilateral aid , so will she confirm the bilateral spend for Sudan this year ? Sudan matter . it be not in the UK ' s national interest for the crossing of red line in this conflict to persist , to have the displacement of people on this scale , nor to see the further destabilisation of this region of Africa . the right hon . Lady ask about the last week ' s ICC find . we acknowledge the ICC Office of the Prosecutor ' s critical finding that there be reasonable ground to believe that war crime and crime against humanity may have well be commit , and be continue to be commit , in Darfur . this be an important milestone in the ICC ' s investigation into crime commit in Darfur , and the UK remain steadfast in its commitment to ensure that international humanitarian law be respect and breach be call out and investigate . the UK remain committed to secure accountability for those responsible for atrocity crime . this include report the fact - find mission ' s mandate and the ICC ' s ongoing investigation . the right hon . Lady mention the attack on El Fasher and the targeting of aid worker . that be an absolute disgrace and a clear violation of international law , and we condemn it . she ask what more we have be do recently . we attend the important consultative group on Sudan in Brussels on 26 June , and contribute to discussion with the UN Secretary - General ' s personal envoy on Sudan , Ramtane Lamamra , on his plan to convene proximity talk with the war party , include on protection issue . finally , the right hon . Lady raise the important question of the spending review . as I be sure she be aware , we have a lot of lesson to learn from last time the aid budget be reduce , because the National Audit Office criticise the way those reduction be make in - year , without consultation , and question whether that be value for money . instead , the Government will take a long - term look at this , and have a glide principle over the three remaining year of this Parliament . that this urgent question could have be relevant at any time in the past 20 year be a damn indictment of the failure of the international community . this morning , my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) and I host sudanese community voice alongside M é decin Sans Fronti è re , the British Medical Association and other , and we hear harrowing story about what be happen on the ground . medical centre and hospital be become battleground and , as ever , woman and child be bear the brunt of the devastation . the United Nations have call what be go on the " world ' s large humanitarian crisis " . there be credible allegation of genocide , back by both the US and the UN , and there be well - document case of war crime . this be a war on civilian . the UK , in its role as the UN penholder , must lead by example and convene international actor and leader to urgent , concrete action . will the Minister set out what urgent action she plan to take in the next week , particularly give that Parliament will not be sit again until September , by which time many more life will have be devastatingly lose ? I thank my hon . friend she for her important work in pull together group — in particular aid worker whose focus be on medical relief — and for her role on the Foreign Affairs Committee . I be sure she share with I the worry about the news of a cholera outbreak in the region . I thank she for her important work in that regard . she also impress on the House the importance of the UK ' s support to woman and girl . the Foreign Secretary visit the Sudan - Chad border in January to raise awareness of Sudan , speak directly to refugee , include survivor who share harrowing story of sexual violence and torture , and in March , Lord Collins , the Africa Minister , chair a UN Security Council briefing on commit to the prevention of violence against woman and girl in Sudan , but my hon . friend be quite right to say that this week , as the House come towards its rise , we must do even more . I will undertake to share this particular dialogue in the House with the Minister for Africa , so he can redouble his effort in the month of August to ensure that the UK be well represent in international discussion . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the ongoing war in Sudan be the world ' s large humanitarian catastrophe and the big since aid begin . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question , but I regret that in the past seven month there have be only one statement on Sudan from the Government . local and community - lead emergency response room be central to the on - the - ground response . will the Minister outline how the UK be increase support to those err ? since the London conference , what bilateral conversation have the Government have with regional actor and the US about Sudan ? war crime be be commit on an almost daily basis . the two principal war party oppose a democratic Sudan , so what be the Government do to support sudanese civilian group and civil society fight for the democratic future ? since 2023 , the New York Times have repeatedly report that the United Arab Emirates be funnel weapon to the Rapid Support Forces , and the UN ' s expert panel on Sudan deem those allegation credible . what be the Government do to address the proliferation of outside weapon in Sudan , and to uphold and expand the arm embargo ? how be they clamp down on the illicit international trade in sudanese gold , which be finance this war ? finally , what assessment have the Government make of the american judgment that chemical weapon be be use in Sudan ? the hon . Lady quite rightly push we to say more in this House . there have be lot of question from member when the Foreign Secretary have be answer broad question , such as on G7 or NATO meeting , so Members across the House have ask question under the umbrella of international affair and the Foreign Secretary have reply to they , but we can always do more . as the hon . Lady be aware , we need to keep up the momentum from the London Sudan conference . she ask who we be work with . we be of course work with the African Union . this be , first and foremost , a question of promote leadership of african country to deal with issue in Africa . the Foreign Secretary have redouble his effort as a well - respect Foreign Secretary within the African Union dialogue , and recently join the EU - convene consultative group on Sudan in June , which I know the hon . Lady will appreciate and think be a worthwhile forum for we to be in . as mention , the friend of Sudan group in Geneva will also advance the work to protect civilian . the hon . Lady mention the UAE . our message to any partner who may have an element of involvement in the conflict be clear : we need to press for a peaceful solution . all those support behind the scene need to come together in the spirit of the London Sudan conference and talk about a peaceful solution for all . on the hon . Lady ' s last question , which be about gold in Sudan , I shall have to write to she . in response to an urgent question in April , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) confirm that the London Sudan conference include a commitment from the UK Government to provide a furth £ 120 million of aid for 2025 - 26 to support 650 , 000 people , which the Minister reference early . with that in mind , can the Minister today confirm to the House what progress have be make in the intervening few month to ensure that the additional aid reach the most vulnerable people in Sudan flee conflict , sexual violence and famine ? my hon . friend raise the most important point . it be not just about money ; it be about access , our diplomatic heft and knock head together so we can get that aid through to the people most in need . he mention the £ 120 million for this financial year . a portion of that uplift provide support to local responder , both through the Sudan Humanitarian Fund , which support the emergency response room , and the Mercy Corps - lead Cash Consortium of Sudan , which provide direct cash assistance to mutual aid group on the ground . the reason for that be that there be often a de - banking situation in conflict zone — formal banking collapse . that be why it be so important that the UK be able to assist the small group on the ground to get that vital aid in . such an enormous civilian price be be pay in Sudan , but one of the great horror be the use of rape and sexual violence against woman and child as a weapon of war — and it be be use systematically as a weapon of war . I appreciate that the Minister have limited option , but I urge she to look at every single way that we can be more robust and strong , and really lead the charge to ensure that vital aid — not only to combat hunger but to help people who have be rape and who have suffer so much — be deliver as quickly as possible . let we please lead the way . I thank the right hon . member for his question . the UK fund support for the protection , prevention and care service respond to gender - base violence and conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan , and they provide emergency support to survivor . long - term UK programme also work to tackle female genital mutilation , and to empower woman and girl . I echo the word of my hon . friend the Members for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) and for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) about the terrible and desperate suffering of woman and child . I thank the Minister for her update , in which she highlight the outcome of the London Sudan conference and the urgent need for access for aid . when I speak to my constituent from the sudanese diaspora community , they talk about their desperate sadness in the conversation they have with their friend and family who be still in the region . will the Minister update the House on the consular arrangement for the friend and family of my constituent ? my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner on behalf of her constituent in Westminster and the City . I encourage she and her staff to use the MP hotline , because that be the good way of get through in order to get consular advice and to reassure our community in the diaspora of Sudan . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) for secure this urgent question on the world ' s bad humanitarian crisis . I welcome the leadership step that the UK Government be take , but will the Minister tell the House what conversation be be have with both the African Union and the United Nations about the possibility of surge peacekeeper into Sudan to protect civilian ? I thank the hon . Lady for her leadership role in the previous Parliament as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Sudan and South Sudan and as International Development Minister . there be a number of partner ; she have mention some of they . the participant at the London Sudan conference include Egypt , the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , the UAE , Qatar , South Sudan , Chad , Kenya , Ethiopia and Uganda , and of course the like - minded : Norway , Canada , the USA and Switzerland . it be a perfect moment and the hon . Lady ask how we can continue that . we will redouble our effort to work with the multilateral such as the UN and the League of Arab States . there be quite a lot on their agenda at the moment , but it be very important that Sudan be not bring down the agenda just because it be in Africa . that be a fear , which be why it be so good to see the reporting in the Financial Times , the Guardian , and many of our other mainstream newspaper , to keep it in the spotlight . we will ensure that we work bilaterally with the country we work with in normal time , and on a multilateral level to maintain our leadership role . the humanitarian situation in Sudan be horrific , with the grow perpetration of atrocity crime against civilian . this be part of a grow pattern of mass atrocity crime be perpetrate across the world , but the UK Government ' s strategy on prevention of and response to mass atrocity crime have not be update since 2019 . do the Minister agree that it be time for a fresh approach to this vital issue ? my hon . friend know of what she speak , with her role before she come to this place . I shall take that as an action from today ' s dialogue . will the Minister explain to the House what , in practical term , the Security Council could do , even if all its member be neutral on the question of back one side over the other ? if two side be determined to fight one another and neither be dependent on outside military assistance to pursue the conflict , be there anything practical that the Security Council could do , even if it be united and in agreement on the need for an intervention ? the UN Security Council be not just about military intervention , in term of the security ; as the right hon . Gentleman be aware , it be also about the impact of the diplomatic solution . as the penholder , the UK have the most important role to try to bring everybody together around the table , which be why we have the London Sudan conference . there be some who throw their hand up and say , " we haven ' t achieve anything , " but I think the important thing be that we lay down a marker , and that we be now follow up with other partner and be see as leader in the area . it be by use the UN Security Council leadership role that we will eventually get to a solution . however , the right hon . Gentleman be quite right to say that there be a lot of finger in the pie . what be happen in Sudan — in Darfur , in particular — be one of the world ' s deep and long - run humanitarian crisis . unfortunately , we be see rise tension and military action in neighbour South Sudan , particularly in the Upper Nile region . the Ugandan army have recently enter South Sudan , and there be a real risk of regional conflict and civil war , which would create a much deep humanitarian crisis across the whole region . what be the UK do to de - escalate that potential conflict , such as talk to Uganda and South Sudan ? my hon . friend be quite right to say that the long the war last , the great its ripple effect . we should give credit to country like Egypt , Chad and South Sudan , alongside other nearby , for manage this crisis and for take so many people in . there have also be aid from country like the UK , but the impact within the region be devastating . I will certainly take back to the Minister for Africa my hon . friend ' s point about the impact on South Sudan and reply in writing with what we be go to do this month — not wait until September , as my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) say . as a former aid worker and resident of Darfur , I feel deeply for the people of Sudan . will the Minister say whether there be plan to increase the amount of spend for the emergency response room ? they be clearly do very valuable work at the moment . I thank the hon . gentleman for all the work he do before come to Parliament and his important support for so many country ; I have be in debate with he on Myanmar and other . it be important that we lay on the record that £ 120 million be a lot of money , and that we have to follow that money . as I explain before , de - banking sometimes occur in certain context , which be why we need to have those relationship on the ground with the sort of aid organisation that my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow speak about , cover the situation as it be today and how to maintain those relationship . my personal view be that it be not always just about the impact of the budget ; sometimes it be about the diplomatic work that go on around the funding so that we can maximise that money . the brutal violence be perpetrate against sudanese civilian be only fuel by external actor from the UAE , Egypt , Russia and beyond . will the Minister ensure diplomatic intervention with each of those nation and report back to the House on the outcome of those dialogue ? will she also ensure that the UK lead on ban the use of mercenary in area of conflict ? we have not sign a convention as the UK Government , and it be time that we lead a new convention on the use of mercenary . I thank my hon . friend for her work as the chair of the APPG for Sudan and South Sudan . we have now hear from both the former chair , the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , and the current chair . I know that my hon . friend have a sudanese diaspora in her locality , too . may I just emphasise that the UK be not protect any country with an interest in this conflict ? we have be very clear that we expect all country to comply with exist UN sanction regime and the arm embargo , and we continue to work closely with partner at the UN Security Council to enforce they . we need to move on to the political resolution of the conflict . I also ask for my hon . friend ' s patience ; I will fold the second part of her question into the challenge I have from my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) on update some of our policy and procedure that have not be update since 2019 . I thank the Minister for her answer to all the question and her strong word on our commitment . I believe those word will encourage we all , and hopefully thereby encourage our constituent . Sudan rank fifth on the Open Doors world watch list for christian persecution , with more than 100 church and christian building forcibly seize in the conflict , with the late church destroy just last week . christian be afraid to practise their faith , and the recent murder of 300 people in North Kordofan have underline the valid reason that they live in fear . how can the Government assist ? more importantly , will the Government intervene and help the people of this region , who be be exterminate just because they be Christians ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his relentless work in this House on freedom of religion or belief . of course , the region use to be so much more diverse , but the space for religious freedom have really narrow . he be quite right to challenge that . with his permission , I will share his thought with our freedom of religion or belief champion , my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , so that we can work together on this issue and shine a spotlight on the lack of freedom for christian community in particular , but also for other minority community in the Darfur region . I be sure all hon . member will want to praise british diplomat for all they be do on this difficult issue . the potential catastrophic loss of ever more civilian life — not merely in the armed conflict , but in the result humanitarian catastrophe — mean that the conscience of the world must lead to action , first and foremost through diplomacy . have the Government consider work with ally to ensure that all option remain on the table , give concept like the responsibility to protect ? give that Sudan have previously see a genocide in Darfur , do the Minister agree that we must ensure that the international community do not once again have to say , " if only we have act more robustly , " or , " never again " ? I thank my hon . friend for his extensive work in civil society on these sort of issue . the current position be for we to engage extensively through diplomatic mean to encourage all party to come to the table . we be very aware of the complexity of this particular conflict and the fact that it be not just two side within the region , but a lot of other player . we be uniquely position with our role on the United Nations Security Council and with our other partner ; for instance , we do a lot with the League of Arab States and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation . we be use our diplomatic effort double time at the moment , but I do hear what my hon . Friend say . give that certain UN initiative and effort to address this humanitarian catastrophe have encounter a degree of reluctance , if not opposition , from state such as Russia , I be pleased to hear the Minister say that the Government be work closely with regional partner . will she elaborate on the work that be be do to support country such as Egypt and multilateral organisation like the African Union to address this humanitarian crisis and , if not to broker a ceasefire , to ensure the unblocking of humanitarian aid ? I thank the hon . member for his long - stand interest in development . I know that he will be pleased to hear that the participant with whom we work at the London conference continue to be our partner in this endeavour . they include Egypt , the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , the UAE , Qatar , South Sudan , Chad , Kenya , Ethiopia and Uganda . within my own brief as the Indo - Pacific Minister , I be able to talk about terrible conflict such as those in Sudan and Myanmar with like - minded people , include with those in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations , which also care deeply about their brother in Sudan and Myanmar . we must redouble our effort to have on our agenda in future diplomatic intervention those terrible ongoing conflict that be not enjoy the spotlight of public attention . I thank the Minister for her response so far . she will be aware of the indiscriminate aerial bombardment in the conflict and the failure to distinguish between military and civilian target . be the Government consider far target sanction on those leader responsible for , or accuse of , atrocity and war crime in the area ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question . since the outbreak of the conflict in 2023 , the UK have freeze the asset of nine commercial entity link to the party involve in the conflict . as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council , the UK have also sanction two general of Sudan ' s Rapid Support Forces for their crime against civilian in November 2024 . he be also right to emphasise the use of drone in this particular conflict and how difficult it be for civilian to know how to shield themselves against they . this new method of war be very much at the top of our agenda when we speak with like - minded people . may I take this opportunity to thank the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) for keep the plight of the Sudanese at the forefront of our thought . we often hear the adage , " out of sight , out of mind " , and , unfortunately , the conflict in Sudan do not engage the mainstream medium in the way that it should . we know about the recent harrowing event in North Kordofan , where 300 civilian , include child and pregnant woman , be massacre . we know that , historically , there have be international peacekeeping troop on the ground . will the Minister explore that opportunity with the relevant nation ? do she believe that that be something that can be consider ? just last month , we join the UN - EU consultative group on Sudan for the first time , alongside our partner from the US , the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , the African Union and the League of Arab States . that be at the top of the agenda . our role at the moment be very much focused on be the penholder at the UN , but all channel be open and we be listen to all view . the important thing be that we try to get round the table again and maintain the momentum that we have for that brief moment at the London conference . with 150 , 000 man , woman and child dead , 13 million people displace , attack on humanitarian worker , and report of ethnic cleansing and genocide , Sudan be undoubtedly the bad humanitarian crisis in the world today , yet almost nobody know about it . we have have no marche on the street , comparatively little medium attention , and very few statement and urgent question in the House . will the Minister set out what more the Government can do to raise awareness of the desperate need to address this conflict ? I thank my hon . friend for his spotlight on this issue . the UK condemn the grow body of evidence of serious atrocity be commit against civilian in Sudan : the escalation of violence ; the killing of civilian ; the sexual assault of woman ; and the restriction of humanitarian access . that be why the Foreign Secretary visit the Sudan - Chad border to raise awareness of the conflict in Sudan and its impact on neighbouring country . he speak directly to sudanese refugee , include to survivor , who share harrowing story of sexual violence and torture . the Minister for Africa , for whom this be probably the high priority area , host an event with his dutch and swiss counterpart to discuss the alarming rate of conflict - relate sexual violence in Sudan and the inadequacy of current response , and we will redouble our effort follow this urgent question to ensure that we follow that up . the unfold scenario in Sudan almost defy description . the Minister have quite rightly speak about the importance of accessibility . do she agree that , for accessibility to work in term of aid , resource and assistance , there need to be a comprehensive international approach in order even to offer the prospect of hope and delivery within the next few month ? the hon . member be absolutely right to talk about the importance not just of our bilateral meeting , but of work at that multilateral level . at the same time , we need to provide support in that important area of gathering fact as we go along , because the fog of war can prevent that . let I give one example . the UK provide £ 989 , 000 to the Sudan Witness project start by the Centre of Information Resilience , which investigate attack against civilian and work with sudanese civil society organisation as well as the United Nations fact - find mission to support evidence gathering and accountability , so that , one day , justice will be serve . I thank the Minister for her answer today , and the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) for bring this urgent question to the House . the event in Sudan be undoubtedly an ongoing stain on the conscience of the global community . I be deeply concerned about increase the accountability of those who be complicit or guilty of war crime or crime against humanity . follow the question of my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , can the Minister assure I and my constituent that she will leave no stone unturned in make sure that people face justice for the thing that they have either enable or take part in ? my hon . friend be right to say that the report come out of Darfur be horrify . some of the violence have show the hallmark of ethnic cleansing and may amount to crime against humanity . the Foreign Secretary hear this at first hand from survivor when he be in Adre in January . irrespective of any determination in the International Criminal Court , we know that we will strongly and always support its active investigation into the situation in Darfur , include allegation of crime commit since April 2023 , and that be why the UK have provide technical support in this regard . Financial Services Reform with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall update the House on the content of the Leeds reform . the reform encompass the Government ' s financial service growth and competitiveness strategy , which be our 10 - year plan for financial service . this plan will make the UK the global centre of choice for financial service investment by 2035 , with all part of the country benefit from its success , build on our thriving regional financial service cluster around the country . the financial service sector be one of this country ' s large and most productive sector . it be worth 9 % of total economic output and provide 1 . 2 million job across the UK ' s nation and region . our strategy will unleash the potential of the sector to catalyse growth , enterprise and opportunity in the rest of the economy . that will mean that work people will get well return on their saving , that home ownership will be unlocked for ten of thousand more people , and that more business will get access to the capital that they need to grow . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade recently present to this House our modern industrial strategy in which financial service be identify as one of the key eight growth drive sector on which the Government will focus . this build on the success of our first year in office , which I be proud to highlight : the fast growth in the G7 in the first quarter of this year ; four interest rate cut ; fast wage growth in the past 10 month than the previous 10 year of the last government ; the FTSE100 yesterday at a record high ; and business confidence at its high in nine year . [ interruption . ] I will not take lecture from the Conservatives , who preside over inflation at 11 % and debt rise year after year . our vision be of an active state work in partnership with business , and the Leeds reform be co - design with industry . the Chancellor and I undertake extensive engagement in its preparation , and I be pleased to see financial service firm across the country and the Confederation of Business Industry welcome our reform publicly . the reform reintroduce informed risk take into our financial service system to deliver prosperity for work people . we will always ensure that financial stability be a prerequisite for economic growth , and we continue to uphold our commitment to the high international standard that underpin the resilience of the global financial system . I will briefly set out the detail of our package to the House . first , the Government be deliver a competitive regulatory environment to attract investment and drive growth . we have set out plan to deliver the most significant reform to the Financial Ombudsman Service since its inception , ensure that it no long act as a quasi - regulator and return it to its original purpose as an independent , impartial dispute resolution service for complaint between consumer and financial service firm . we be also streamline the senior manager and certification regime to reduce the burden impose on firm by 50 % and to reduce approval time . we have task the Financial Conduct Authority to report back by September on how it plan to address concern about the application of the consumer duty for firm primarily engage in wholesale activity . secondly , our reform unlock capital for investment into our infrastructure and business . we be do this by support the Bank of England ' s change to MREL — the minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liability — and by confirm our approach to Basel 3 . 1 , implement low capital requirement for domestically focus bank from January 2027 while preserve flexibility in our approach for international bank to ensure that the UK remain competitive and align with international standard . we be also commit to meaningful reform to ringfencing , while maintain the aspect of the regime that support financial stability and protect customer deposit . we welcome the Financial Policy Committee ' s review of the overall bank capital level need for UK financial stability and its decision to ease its loan - to - income restriction on mortgage lending . I be delighted that this decision will enable up to 36 , 000 additional first - time buyer to access mortgage in the first year . thirdly , we be make the UK the location of choice for fintech to start up , scale and list , and we want the wide financial service sector to embrace innovation too . the FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority will launch a scale - up unit to ensure that fast - grow business have the support they need to grow . the regulator will also introduce a new streamlined authorisation regime that will enable innovative firm to start operate while they await full approval . we be modernise and future - proof the regulatory framework for payment and e - money , include stablecoin , and we be establish a new model to deliver next - generation retail payment infrastructure . fourthly , we be seize opportunity in key area of UK leadership , from speciality insurance and asset management to sustainable finance . our insurance sector have be world - lead for century , and we be commit to stay at the front of the pack by create a new captive insurance framework and hold an industry showcase event later this year to sell the sector globally . we be also future - proof the regulatory regime for our asset management sector , which be the second large in the world , and we will publish draft legislation on that early next year . the UK be already a lead global hub for sustainable finance . we have set out plan for a stable regulatory framework , and we be give industry clarity by decide not to pursue a green taxonomy and by focus instead on ambitious policy that support investor to invest in the transition . I look forward to continue to work with Lord Alok Sharma and the Transition Finance Council , which he chair , to make the UK the lead international hub for raise transition finance . fifthly , we want to go far in build a new retail investment culture and boost our capital market ' competitiveness . we have take great stride to reform our pension system , lead by the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , so that people can have well saving in retirement . we want saver to get the good return on their saving . for too many their money be not work hard enough , and for too long advice on investment have be the preserve of only the wealthy in society . to address this , the Chancellor have announce the big reform of the financial advice and guidance landscape in more than a decade and the introduction of target support in time for the new tax year . the Chancellor and I welcome the step be take by industry to help consumer engage with investing . I particularly thank Chris Cummings of the Investment Association for the work he be lead on that . we be also consider reform the individual saving account system to ensure well outcome for both saver and the UK economy . we be allow long - term asset fund to be hold in stock and share isa next year . this will allow more individual to invest in asset that will support the UK ' s success while see well return on their saving . to ensure that our capital market support british business , we be announce a new listing taskforce with the Office for Investment to attract world - lead business towards initial public offering in the UK . we be publish a wholesale financial market digital strategy to harness innovation as well as our ambitious design for the digital gilt instrument pilot . finally , we be take step to enhance the UK ' s leadership in financial service , ensure that the UK remain the most open and connected financial centre in the world . we will launch a concierge service — the Office for investment : Financial Services — to attract international financial service firm to invest in the UK and grow their business . we be far facilitate cross - border activity with the publication of guidance on our overseas recognition regime and a memorandum of understanding with UK regulator , a copy of which I will place in the Library in both Houses . through these step , the Government have place financial service at the heart of our growth mission . our 10 - year strategy be ambitious , include the most far - reach reform to financial service for a decade , and will unleash the fantastic potential of our world - lead financial service sector . we be back british business , unlock home ownership for ten of thousand of people across the country , support saver to get well return , and invest in our share future . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Economic Secretary . I be very grateful to the Minister for advance sight of her statement . there be much in these Leeds reform — many of which be formerly know as the Edinburgh reform — that can be welcome , and some of the detail be lay out by the Chancellor in her Mansion House speech last night . the Conservatives will always support reform to our financial sector that ensure that the City of London remain a global powerhouse , but the Chancellor ' s rhetoric last night about growth and stability obscure the truth of this Government ' s record of delivery . inflation be now at 3 . 6 % — the high in the G7 — and growth have all but stall . despite yesterday ' s fanfare for reform , the reality be that have run short on other idea , the Government be now force to turn once again to the City of London for inspiration — a last throw of the dice , hope that it will provide an engine for the growth that their policy be stifle . last night the Chancellor describe her Government as a " beacon of stability " , but let we not forget the actual legacy that be hand over to she . we enjoy near record level of employment . unemployment be at historic low , and inflation be under control . that be the stable foundation on which this Government be hand the key , yet they now preside over instability . the Office for Budget Responsibility , the OECD and the Bank of England have all sound the alarm that our growth prospect have collapse . the Government claim to be cut red tape for industry , but let we remember that their plan to make work pay would in fact burden employer with over 70 new regulation , reminiscent of the 1970 . the Chancellor ' s talk of unleash the power of the City come even as her party threaten to smother business in paperwork and expense . when it come to proposal for financial service , the Conservatives welcome much that give the sector confidence and clarity , but warm word must be match by careful delivery . on reform to the Financial Ombudsman Service , there be agreement that it should return to its impartial root as a fast and effective dispute resolution service , not a quasi - regulator , but so many business and consumer be await clarity , so can the Minister confirm whether these change will limit the FOS ' s power to make backdate legal determination , and what impact will the reform have on ongoing legal proceeding , such as the crucial car finance case before the Supreme Court ? streamline the approach of the FCA and the PRA may remove unnecessary friction , but we must ensure that this do not become window dressing while critical challenge remain . the FCA and the PRA must accept that stability in the market be not the only way to deliver growth . both their objective must be align and equally ambitious in their drive for reform . the Chancellor trumpet reform to isa , include new rule for long - term asset fund , which we welcome if that broaden access to high - return asset for ordinary saver , but there be still no certainty on the future of the cash ISA . without clarity , the Government risk undermine their own ambition to promote home ownership and inclusive investment , which again be trumpet by the Chancellor during her Mansion House speech last night . on capital investment policy , we welcome MREL reform , which be a change I champion during the recent passage of the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Act 2025 . this will help challenger bank to compete and expand lending . we cautiously welcome the Government ' s review of ringfencing rule , but will they confirm that all option be be consider , include alignment with the US and the EU , which , as the Minister know , never implement ringfencing rule ? more broadly , the history of the last Labour Government remind we that good intention be never enough . the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 , introduce by the then Chancellor , along with the tripartite system , be well conceive but badly implement , contribute to the event of the 2008 financial crisis . it fall to this Government now to demonstrate that they will not repeat those mistake . finally , at Mansion House last night the Chancellor miss a crucial opportunity to be straight with the british people and rule out further tax rise . will the Minister guarantee that work family and business will not face more tax increase ? will she rule out any further surprise raid on the british taxpayer ? Britain ' s financial service sector have always thrive when reform be clear . the test of these reform will come when the full detail emerge , but ultimately growth will come only when the Chancellor realise that hard - work people and business across the country be the real engine of economic growth . well , half of that be all right , I suppose . I do want to start constructively and thank the hon . member for his welcome for some of the reform . I will answer some of his specific question before I come to the wide point . on the Financial Ombudsman Service , we have set out in great detail what we will do . as he will be aware , some of the change require primary legislation . we be propose an absolute time limit of 10 year , but with discretion for the FCA to give long period in the case of product with a long lifetime . I can not comment on the ongoing car finance issue , which as he know be work its way through the court . the hon . member talk about the regulator ' different objective . we have be very clear with the regulator that we expect they to embed their secondary objective to facilitate economic growth and competitiveness while obviously comply with their other objective . he will see that in the remit letter that the Chancellor send to the regulator at the last Mansion House speech last November . on isa , I welcome what the hon . Member say about long - term asset fund , which we think will unlock great opportunity for saver . we continue to consider reform to isa . we would like to ensure that more people have the opportunity and confidence to invest , which be why we hope that target support , which will be introduce by firm by the end of this tax year — we have work at pace on this — will really shift the dial and give people that confidence to invest . I think the hon . Member say he be in favour of what we be do on MREL , and I know that he agree with the Bank Resolution ( Recapitalisation ) Act , which we put through the House and be come into force today . I thank he for his support on that . on ringfencing , we have detail which area we will look at . I be happy to write to he far on that , but one area , for example , be share resource across the ringfenced and non - ringfence part of bank . we want to ensure that we strike the right balance between growth and stability . I turn to the hon . member ' s point about economic stability . I will take no lesson from the Conservatives — I hate to say it . we have inflation at 11 % , people pay extremely high mortgage rate and debt rise year after year . the only thing that be stable under their government be wage , which be flatline . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I thank the Minister for the statement and look forward to the Treasury Committee talk to — or interrogating — she , and indeed the Chancellor , about the detail as it emerge . since the election , one of the thing the Government have be talk about , lead on from the previous Government , be the secondary remit letter to the regulator about encourage growth as a secondary objective . can she tell we when the Government will be clear about their own appetite for risk in the sector so that both firm and the regulator know how far the Government will be prepared to go ? she and I know from our experience in this place that if too many consumer suffer under any change , this place be where that will be raise , and then there be a tendency for the Government to turn around and say , " well , you go too far . " for the sake of the sector , the regulator and our constituent , will she tell we — or will she tell we when she can — where the Government ' s line on risk will fall ? I thank my hon . friend for that thoughtful question . I be happy to talk to the Committee about that in more detail . what I will say be that the Leeds reform regulate for growth instead of seek to eliminate risk from the system altogether . we know that in order to get great return , there be a need to take informed risk . the reform will enable firm and consumer to take informed risk . but we will always support the regulator and legislate in a way that protect consumer from bad practice and bad actor . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be much to welcome in the statement . I hope that it send a strong signal to the fintech sector and sustainable finance that UK plc be open for business , but it be important to get the balance right between growth and risk . we Liberal Democrats welcome the announcement of a scale - up unit . will it have a mandate to look at liquidity and valuation , which be two of the challenge that prevent british start - up from scale up here at home ? on the retail investment culture , we welcome plan to reform financial advice and guidance and to launch a national advertising campaign . we believe that we should trust people to weigh up the risk and reward of investment , if they be properly inform . but we also know that money habit be form at a young age . will the Minister advise whether the Government have any plan to introduce financial literacy as part of the school curriculum — indeed , from cradle to grave ? will the Government confirm when they will bring forward any reform at all to cash isa ? the uncertainty around the issue be undermine their own goal of incentivise more investment . on mortgage , many renter have be crowd out of get on to the housing ladder , so this announcement will sound exciting to they , but what reassurance can the Minister provide that this additional lending will not result in boom and bust ? with inflation jump today , how many of those up to 36 , 000 first - time homeowner will realistically get on the housing ladder in the next year ? we welcome the streamlining of check on senior manager , but will the Government confirm that those change will not expose financial firm and their customer to great risk ? if the Government want a step change in economic growth , this be a start , but they must go far and fast by have a well trading deal with the EU . we have a very good deal with the EU , which we agree in May this year and will continue to build on . I be pleased to have invite the European Commissioner for Financial Services , Maria Lu í s Albuquerque , who be at the dinner last night at the Mansion House . I will try to get through all the hon . member ' s question . on liquidity and valuation , I point out that we have some of the deep capital market in the world . last year , the amount of equity capital raise in London be large than in the next three european exchange put together . however , I recognise the issue she talk about . on the advertising campaign , Chris Cummings of the Investment Association be lead the secretariat . he will also be look at risk warning . that be not to say there should not be risk warning , but that there should be a balance in risk warning to ensure that warning be also inform people of the benefit of invest over the long term . the hon . Member rightly talk about the importance of financial education and capability . we will put forward suggestion on that in the financial inclusion strategy , which we will publish in the autumn . however , as this be a cross - Government effort , I reassure she that I be speak and meet actively with the Minister for School Standards so that we be align with the Department for Education ' s curriculum review . the hon . Member ask about mortgage . may I reassure she ? obviously , we have have extensive regulation since the global financial crash and we be not go back to the bad old day when there be no verification check on affordability and 125 % mortgage . but the system we have get mean that people on modest income be unable to get on the housing ladder . Nationwide have say that because of the Bank of England ' s recent decision , it will be able to help an additional 10 , 000 people a year with its help hand mortgage to fulfil their dream of home ownership . I think that be a great step forward and will mean that people across the country , like many in this House , can benefit from the security of home ownership , and particularly those on modest income and in generation that be be deprive of such opportunity . I call John Grady , a member of the Treasury Committee . the reform be target at get great investment into british infrastructure and cut red tape . do my hon . friend agree that it be a little bit rum for Opposition party to criticise our Government for introduce red tape when they vote against the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which create project that people can invest in and provide house , which be a key restraint on house price inflation ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . we be intent on build the 1 . 5 million home that we promise at the election . I remind the chuntering hon . gentleman on the Opposition Front Bench that even before the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , the OBR score the first stage of the planning reform as the large increase in GDP by the end of the scorecard of any non - fiscal lever in its history . the Economic Secretary may want to have a look at hansard and make sure she get the right soundbite on the record about the 10 month of wage growth and the comparison . my understanding be that wage growth be indeed slow after the financial crash . we try to compensate for that by increase personal allowance , but wage growth have bounce back since the pandemic . she may want to correct the record if that be the case . on the reform , which have migrate from Edinburgh down to Leeds , the Treasury Committee will scrutinise the implementation . be it her vision that they should be implement over the next year , before the next Mansion House speech , rather than on the 10 - year basis of the strategy as she outline ? I refer the hon . Lady to page 63 of the strategy , which be very useful . it set out an ambitious timeline for implement the reform that the Chancellor set out at the Mansion House last night and in Leeds yesterday morning , and show she that we have already take action to implement some of the decision we take in November last year , such as introduce the private intermittent security and capital exchange system . PISCES be a new private intermittent security market that be open for business , and for which we legislate in May . that demonstrate how we be work at pace . other thing will take a little long , and her extensive experience in this place and in government mean that she will understand that some of those thing require primary legislation . however , she will see through the two - page summary at the back of the strategy how we plan to implement the reform at pace to unleash the potential of the financial service sector . too many of my constituent be trap in the rental market , pay off someone else ' s mortgage instead of save for a home of their own . average rent in Birmingham have now pass £ 1 , 000 a month for the first time , drive sharply upwards since the mini - Budget . I strongly welcome the Chancellor ' s Leeds reform , which will help 36 , 000 first - time buyer on to the housing ladder . will the Minister say more about what the Government be do to boost housing supply so that home ownership can become a reality for more people in city such as mine ? as be say previously , the package that we announce yesterday , as well as the announcement by the Bank of England and the FCA ' s discussion paper , go to the heart of make sure that we have the right balance between ensure people have affordable mortgage product and ensure that those product be accessible to more people up and down the country . as she will know — I be sure that she be refer to this — the Planning and Infrastructure Bill and some of the other planning reform that we set forward be some of the most ambitious for a generation . they will unlock the potential for those home to be build so that we can get more and more first - time buyer on to the housing ladder . I call a Treasury Committee member , John Glen . I warmly welcome the Leeds reform ; they build on many of the thing that be do under the previous Administration and I acknowledge the consumer - face change on mortgage and isa and the aspiration to get more people invest . those be positive thing . I will just say two thing . first , on the list review , we do one about four year ago and it be all just about implement . I urge the Minister to look at culture and fiscal issue as much as at regulatory issue . secondly , on the PRA and the scale of ambition on that side of the regulatory framework , in conversation with senior leader at Mansion House last night , it be feel that the FCA ' s level of ambition be high but that there must be wariness about a constant shifting of the goalpost and a lack of real change , particularly on the internal rating base and how bank can get their regulatory capital treat differently more quickly . it be take too long and that need to change urgently . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that we have not announce a listing review ; we have announce a listing taskforce — [ interruption . ] it be different , if hon . member will let I explain . it be a joint piece of work between the Office for Investment , his Majesty ' s Treasury and other Government Departments to make sure that we attract the good and bright company to list here in the UK . he be correct , though : many reform be undertake by his Government on listing , take forward the Jonathan Hill and Mark Austin review , and we welcome and support those . the right hon . Gentleman will have see that yesterday the FCA publish its final prospectus rule . of course , we have to get the regulatory side of the equation right , but he be correct that there be other factor at play , which we be look at . on the FCA and the PRA , all I will say to reassure he be that , as he know , I hold the relationship with both those regulator as the Economic Secretary . we will continue to push they to be ambitious in support our growth agenda . I just want to confirm that my name be clive , not Cassandra , Lewis — and yet , I feel like the Trojan princess , forever warn of thing that will go wrong but be ignore . will the Minister provide reassurance , give that the Bank of England have repeatedly warn that loosen mortgage lending standard and allow more people to borrow large sum relative to their income can push up house price and increase financial instability ? I appreciate that these be not the same deregulation that take place before the 2008 crash , but give the state of the global economy , surely she will understand that many of we on the Government Benches be cautious about deregulate at a time of such instability . I understand that we want to get more people on the housing ladder and to increase growth , but there be a risk . I wonder whether that risk have be duly appreciate . I reassure my hon . friend that our agenda be to streamline regulation and make it more proportionate , and that there remain firm guardrail and affordability check for mortgage provider . at the moment , the level of repossession be very low and bank and other mortgage provider do all they can to avoid repossess people ' s home . as I say before , we will not go back to the bad old day of 125 % mortgage and no verification of affordability . this be about rebalance the system to make sure that more people can afford to buy their own home , but it be also about strike the right balance between ensure that we take more informed risk while ensure financial stability . he be right to ask the question . I call a Treasury Committee member , Bobby Dean . the Chancellor announce quite a list of reform yesterday . I note that many be on the shopping list of industry , so the Committee will examine they closely to make sure they also work for the consumer and for the long - term stability of the economy . one change in particular , on ringfencing , will worry those with strong memory of the 2008 financial crash . the shadow Economic Secretary indicate that perhaps we need to look at remove the ringfencing entirely . that would be a big step backwards . these reform be drive by the Liberal Democrat Vince Cable , and the idea be to separate everyday customer deposit from the risk of investment banking . will the Minister give we assurance that the hard - earn saving of family across the country will not be put at risk by the speculative activity of people play with other people ' s money ? it be always a great pleasure to come and give evidence to the hon . Gentleman ' s Committee . I reassure he that the Government be uphold the ringfence regime . we must strike the right balance between protect financial stability and safeguard depositor . equally , we think that there be some flexibility that should be explore within the ringfencing regime that will allow further growth and further capital to be deploy in the real economy . I thank the Minister for her statement and commend the work that she and the Chancellor have do on the wide Leeds reform . I want to pick up on the forthcoming campaign to promote retail investment , which have the potential to reshape public understanding of risk , reward and financial planning . the problem with many similar campaign be that they have fail to reach the people who most need they , so can the Minister provide a bit more detail about how the Treasury intend to work with both the financial service industry and civil society to ensure that the campaign deliver measurable benefit and improvement in financial capability across the whole population ? my hon . friend be a great campaigner on this issue , and he be absolutely right : this be not an easy nut to crack . we will work closely with the industry - lead campaign . we need to give people who want to invest and save for the long term the confidence to consider whether they can secure well return through investing , rather than just hold large amount — if they have those large amount — of money in cash . whenever I listen to the excellent Times Radio and other commercial broadcaster , I be always favourably impress by the fact that at the end of every positive advertisement for a financial product , three word be say : " capital at risk " . can the Minister assure the House that in the review of risk warning that will be undertake , that fundamental red flag , at the end of people push we to invest our money in some grand and profitable enterprise , will not be leave out ? I can reassure the right hon . Gentleman that we be not suggest get rid of risk warning . I think that be what he be ask I most directly . one of the investment platform do some research into the wording of risk warning , and he will probably know that there be quite a gender gap . if we look at the figure from the Financial Conduct Authority ' s financial life survey , we see that more man have the confidence to invest than woman , for example . there be other demographic factor , too . we want to give people the option and the confidence to invest , but of course there will always be risk warning . however , there be also a risk if someone hold all their saving in cash over the long term , due to inflation . the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee ' s inquiry into regional innovation and growth have repeatedly hear that access to capital outside London and the south - east be the big barrier to start - up scale up and deliver growth and job . the reform that the Minister have set out to reintroduce informed risk taking , which I be sure will be prudently implement , should realise capital to catalyse growth . can she say a little about how this will deliver more capital investment into the productive economy of the north - east ? I might not be able to give my hon . friend the specific about her region right now , but I will say that my colleague the Pensions Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , have secure an ambitious industry - lead accord — the Mansion House accord — that commit 17 pension fund , represent 90 % of active define - contribution saver , to invest 10 % of their fund in private asset , half of which be to be in the UK . they will be on the hunt for good firm that could be successful in the future and that need capital to start up and scale up . we be also work closely with the British Business Bank on these issue , as my hon . friend will know . after 20 year in the City of London , over the last year I have have to endure a stream of what I would call financially illiterate verbal baby food . today I hear the Chancellor talk about regulate for growth . you do not regulate for growth ; you deregulate for growth . the genesis of our problem be the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority , which spring from the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 . this be a Labour Act that create the Financial Services Authority , which turn into the PRA and the FCA . those two organisation have shut the City of London down . we be now a shadow of our former self in term of raise global capital , and I hear you say the opposite — order . please be seat ; I be on my foot . you hear the Minister say that . you do not refer to the Minister as " you " . please come to the question . my question be this : be the Minister aware of the concept of buyer beware , or caveat emptor , which use to be the basis of financial regulation ? it be very risky to force people into more and more high - risk investment as you hollow out our economy with high taxis and regulation . order . you mean , " as the Minister hollow out " , not I . Minister — a swift response . well , what do I say to that ? I think there be , with the exception of the hon . member , cross - party support for the twin peak financial service regulation that we have . of course , we need proportionate regulation to ensure that there be protection in place for consumer . he seem to be suggest that we get rid of the regulator altogether , which I think most member of this House would be oppose to . I have hear of the concept of caveat emptor , and I be suitably patronise by he . one of the first visit I undertake after the election be to my local branch of Nationwide , which for generation have be provide good financial advice and advice to first - time buyer in my seat , as have many other mutual . in one of the previous period of financial deregulation by the Conservative party , we see a movement that lead to the demutualisation of the building society movement , create uncertainty for thousand upon thousand of potential homeowner and people look for financial support . can the Minister reassure the House today that the co - operative and mutual sector will remain absolutely essential to the everyday financial service that work people need ? absolutely . this be something that the Chancellor and I — and indeed the Business Secretary and the Business Minister — be passionate about , and we be make sure that we deliver on our manifesto commitment to double the size of the sector . we have ask the financial service regulator to report by the end of the year on what more they can do to support the growth of the sector . we be support the industry - lead Mutual and Co - operative Business Council , which be chair by the chair of Nationwide , Kevin Parry , and we have recently conclude a call for evidence on the credit union common bond , which be another form of mutual . we will be set out our response on that issue in due course . give the news on inflation today , along with the ongoing increase in unemployment and the downgrading of growth forecast , it be quite right that this government be look for other way to stimulate growth . one of the reason be put forward for these reform be the poor rate of return on ordinary bank account and saving account , but what my constituent want be just decent rate of return on ordinary saving account . Martin Lewis and other have point out that that market remain stubbornly resistant to pass on interest rate saving and offer competitive rate . I understand why the Government want to encourage people to invest in other type of saving , but what plan do they have to tackle the poor rate of return that people be get from their ordinary saving and bank account ? I be engage with Martin Lewis , who be a doughty champion of consumer across the country . I say to the hon . member that , due to the consumer duty , bank and other provider have a duty to ensure that they deliver the good outcome for their consumer , but I note what he have say . I thank the Minister for her statement , and I note especially the new concierge service within the Office for Investment that will both court international development and act as a one - stop shop to promote the UK . what regional dimension might be consider within that for place such as the east midland — the region for which I be an MP — where there be significant potential for job and investment ? I can reassure my hon . friend that the concierge service will be work across the country . this be about ensure that the UK have a single shop window for international firm look to either set up or invest far in the UK . as we set out in the Leeds reform , the benefit of that investment and of unleash the potential of the financial service industry should be feel across the country , in the east midland and beyond . the grim truth be that people ' s living standard in Wales have still not recover from the 2008 crash , which result in a labour Prime Minister bail out the bank and the Tory austerity experiment , so why be the Government risk a repeat of the mistake of the past when all the evidence show — this be important — that growth will not trickle down from poorly regulate banker ? I gently say to the right hon . member that we be not talk about go back to 2007 — we have come a long way since then . of course , after the crash , financial service regulation and a new system of financial service regulation in term of the twin peak of the FCA and the PRA — conduct and prudential — be introduce . we be not talk about go back to then . we be not bring back 125 % mortgage , as I have repeatedly say . we be simply say that we need to reassess where we be and that the pendulum have swing too far the other way . we need to rebalance the system so that both consumer and firm can take informed risk to drive growth across the country . that will make people well off and give they the opportunity to secure well return on their saving . I encourage she to look at the detail of this . we be look to rebalance the system , not go back to where we be . as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on financial technology and a mother to a 17 - year - old daughter who turn 18 this year and be consider how she can well save for and secure her future , I welcome this news with real joy as we try to bring more wealth to more people . I suspect this joy be share by Ayesha Ofori , the founder of Propelle , a platform that encourage woman into retail investing , which can start with some very small sum indeed ; Nina Mohanty , who found Bloom Money , which support people from ethnic minority community to build generational wealth through group saving and budget ; and Georgia Stewart , founder of Tumelo , which have a mission to bring shareholder democracy to the digital age , give everybody a seat at the table , whether that be an institution manage billion or everyday saver . do the Minister agree that this Government ' s approach of encourage investing should in turn give confidence to those who be consider invest in these female - found fintech company , so they can scale and reach more people to help they become wealthy and more secure ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend , who be a fantastic champion of fintech . we already have a thriving fintech sector , which be the second large in the world — second only to the US — and we be determined to ensure that those company access the capital and the authorisation and licence that they need from the regulator . obviously , that be a decision for the regulator , but it should be do at pace so that these company can get off the ground and start to scale , provide the opportunity for retail investment and , critically , provide innovative product for consumer across the country . I thank the Minister for her statement . the no . 1 thing that my constituent raise with I be the soar cost of the private rent sector . do she agree that these reform will help first - time buyer in Harlow get on the housing ladder ? work alongside the £ 39 billion of investment in social housing , that can only be good for my resident . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . we want to ensure that the dream of home ownership be expand across the country , include to his constituency of Harlow . because of the reform we be take forward , and there will be more to come , the estimate be that 36 , 000 new first - time buyer will be able to buy their home in the first year of this reform be in place . in her statement , the Economic Secretary be right when she allude to the FTSE be at a record high yesterday , though many international index , whether in the US , the far east or Europe , be also at record high since the April low . she also allude to the cash ISA problem . what will be do to instil confidence among the wide public who hold money and cash asset but be reluctant and fearful of investing , even in low - risk collective investment that , over the long term , would produce much well return than cash isa , which be subject , as she rightly say , to inflation ? I thank the hon . member for his thoughtful question . we be do a number of thing . first , we be work at pace with the FCA to ensure that targeted support be in place by the end of the tax year and in time for the new ISA season in April next year . we be look at the risk warning and at the industry - lead campaign on advertise the opportunity of investing . we be do all that we can . it be good that hon . member on different side of the House be support we . obviously , different people will be at different stage in their journey through life . People who be retire may not want to invest in the stock market . I can understand that , from their perspective , they need more readily available cash , but if people who be young or middle aged — I do not know where I fall in those category — [ interruption . ] thank you . if people can even put a small amount away , they can invest in their future . it concern I recently when a report suggest that many people do not know that their pension be invest in the stock market and that that be how they get well return in their retirement . we need to run a huge campaign with the private sector to educate people about the opportunity and to give people the confidence to invest . at the end of the day , it will obviously be down to people about how they choose to invest . I welcome the Leeds reform today . like many of the good thing , they start in West Yorkshire — [ interruption . ] I see Conservative Members be still chuntere from a sedentary position . the reform underline the important point that financial service be not just the preserve of the City of London , but of community around the country , include many of my Calder Valley constituent who work for Lloyds Bank . do the Minister agree that one of the most important thing we can do to grow the economy be to focus on thing that this country do well , include our financial service ? that be absolutely right . we be at Lloyds Banking Group yesterday in Leeds , and Lloyds employ thousand of people in Leeds and the wide region . there be some great opportunity in not only the establishment firm , but , as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) say , some of these new firm outside of London that be grow and provide innovative product . I be recently in Scotland talk to a group of fintech about the support they be get to work closely with some of the bank in Scotland to drive further investment into fintechs . that collaboration between the more established player and new player be positive to see . I commend the Minister for her statement . listen to my neighbour on the Front Bench , the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , as charismatic as he be , he do not convince I that 11 % inflation , a £ 200 increase in my mortgage payment and a revolving door of Prime Ministers and Chancellors be a record to be particularly proud of . my question be about the 29 million people in this country who have deposit in low - yield current account , while people who invest in the stock exchange over the last 10 year see yield of 9 % . how do we convince and educate those customer to give they the confidence to be able to reveal much well outcome from their investment ? that be similar to what the hon . member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) ask . there have be lot of different research , but AJ Bell recently find that if people have put £ 100 a year into isa for the past 25 year , they would be well off if they invest in a stock and share ISA than a cash ISA , so it be perhaps about show people that sort of evidence . obviously , the stock market ebb and flow and can fluctuate , but if people be save for the long term , they should certainly consider invest . the industry - lead campaign will look at how we can advertise the benefit . of course , there still will be risk warning , but we need to ensure that we get the balance right between tell people that there be risk and tell they that there be great benefit of investing , too . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I seek your guidance ? the NHS announce yesterday morning the closure of the Mount Vernon hospital minor injury unit in my constituency , which also affect my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , my hon . friend the Members for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) and for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , and the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) and for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) . the decision fly in the face of the 10 - year plan for the NHS announce recently to this House . my letter of 24 April to the Secretary of State about the matter have go completely unanswered . give the impending recess , how can I place my concern on the record and hold Ministers accountable for this action ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . the Chair be not responsible for Ministers ' reply to correspondence from hon . member , but colleague in all part of the House be entitle to expect a timely response to their letter , especially from Ministers on constituency matter . he have put his point on the record , and I be sure that the Treasury Front Bench will have notice his remark and will pass that on forthwith . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance regard the accuracy of the official report in Hansard . in my speech on Wednesday 2 July 2025 during the debate on the prevention and suppression of terrorism , I say the word , " we be all Palestine Action . " the video and audio recording clearly confirm that the full sentence be speak before the Chair intervene . however , Hansard have omit the final word of that sentence . I have be advise that this be due to a long - stand convention not to report word speak after the Chair intervene , but in this case the record omit word speak before the Chair ' s intervention . I be also aware of precedent , which I can provide , where member ’ final word immediately precede or overlap an intervention have be include to preserve the accuracy of the record . despite that , Hansard have not only refuse to amend the entry , but have since remove the sentence entirely . that blatant attempt of censorship and rewrite the record be deeply concern and undermine the integrity of the Official Report . can you therefore advise I and the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , on whether there be formal mechanism to challenge omission of this kind , reinstate the accurate record and ensure that Hansard fulfil its duty to provide a full and accurate record of proceeding in this House ? the hon . Member have now twice put her word on the record , no doubt . if she be not aware — and for colleague across the House who may not be aware — Hansard have its own editorial policy . if she wish to have her word correct , she need to take that up directly with Hansard . that be not a responsibility of the Chair . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will be most grateful for your advice , because during Prime Minister ' s question early today the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) mislead the House — Order . we do not use language such as " mislead the House " when talk about colleague . the hon . Gentleman will have to check his word if he wish to continue . I be most grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen may have possibly inadvertently mislead the House with regard to Lancashire county council and nursery funding . the reality be that , unfortunately , as a result , the Prime Minister give an answer base on that possible inadvertent misinformation . the truth be that Lancashire county council be carry out a statutory consultation on whether to follow the example of Labour - control council such as Blackburn and Blackpool in have a small , modest processing fee . the hon . Gentleman will no doubt have already contact the member he reference . if not , I have no doubt that he will do so forthwith . if only the Chair be responsible for the content of Members ' question and answer , but unfortunately it be not . the hon . Gentleman have now put his word on the record and will no doubt get a response privately . Bill present International Court of Justice Advisory Opinion on Policies and Practices of Israel ( Sanctions and other Measures ) Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Burgon , support by Imran Hussain , present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to take step to give effect in the United Kingdom to the Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice issue on 19 July 2024 entitle " Legal Consequences arise from the Policies and Practices of Israel in the occupy palestinian Territory , include East Jerusalem " , include provision for sanction and for other measure to give effect to that advisory opinion ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 288 ) . manage Agents ( Regulation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to establish an independent regulator of manage agent ; to make provision about the power and duty of the independent regulator ; to require manage agent to comply with a code of practice and to make provision about that code of practice ; to make provision for a licensing scheme for manage agent ; to make further provision about the regulation of manage agent ; and for connected purpose . labour government past and present have be underpin by a motivation to stand up for the voiceless and disempowered — those let down by broken system — so that they can take control over their own circumstance . I present this Bill to the House because the failure to regulate manage agent have render leaseholder — ordinary hard - work people — voiceless , let down and disempowere . this government ' s commitment to end the broken leasehold system be a welcome pledge for many , include leaseholder in place like my Uxbridge and South Ruislip constituency . many have long be hold hostage by exploitative management company . in this Bill , we have the opportunity to take a further step forward in rebalance the system , improve management standard and empower leaseholder to hold their manage agent to account . the Bill would establish a new independent regulator of manage agent . it would require manage agent to have mandatory qualification and to pass a fit and proper person test . the regulator would be empower to impose continue professional development requirement . that would be underpin by a clear code of practice set in statute , of which leaseholder would have clear sight and knowledge . the Bill would provide legal obligation and create a mechanism for redress for concerned leaseholder . the regulator would have power to enforce compliance against manage agent and , ultimately , to remove they from the register of regulated agent . this would all be fund by the firm and individual that be regulate . those be reasonable and sensible step forward . colleague across the House have highlight the plight of constituent who fall victim to unregulated manage agent , lay bare the failure of the current system . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) and for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) for their support and advice on the Bill . in my constituency , I have be support resident live in Union Park in Cowley . the developer have walk away from that development , and the resident be be present with a bill of £ 100 , 000 by the manage company , Ringley . communal boiler have be leave break for two and a half year , and leak under floorboard remain unfixed . although my team and I continue to work to support and advocate for those resident , the reality be that without a proper regulatory framework , manage company like Ringley — which be appoint by freeholder — remain free to provide inadequate customer service , charge extortionate fee without justification and ignore resident . they seemingly serve vested interest , not the leaseholder who pay their fee . I be proud to be a member of the Labour for leaseholder group , work with hon . friend to advocate for leaseholder in our constituency and put pressure on manage company to do well . we need a clear and robust legislative and regulatory framework , such as the one suggest by Lord Best and propose in this Bill . of course , the leasehold system be not new , but the challenge that it present today require the Government to act . without mandatory qualification and regulatory oversight , leaseholder remain vulnerable to inconsistent service quality , opaque charge and a lack of recourse when thing go wrong . manage agent be responsible for a variety of complex and important area , include health , fire and structural safety , building maintenance , major work project , and handle building finance and insurance . in leasehold block , manage company hold substantial sum of leaseholder ' hard - earn money . the current system — or lack thereof — not only allow but empower unqualified and incompetent manage agent . the Bill be not about extend red tape for red tape ' s sake ; it be about protect hard - work people and their money . let I be clear : I be not attempt to tarnish all manage agent with the same brush . I know that some leaseholder have have positive experience . the Property Institute — the professional body represent 7 , 000 property manager and over 360 manage agent firm — seek to deliver safe , secure and well - manage home . member of the TPI be require to obtain accreditation and follow a consumer charter that demand honesty , fairness , openness and transparency . however , when distressed leaseholder sit across from I at my advice surgery , those be not the word they use to describe their manage company . I commend the TPI for its work to stand up for leaseholder , and I welcome the supportive role it have play in the Government ' s consultation on leasehold reform . however , a voluntary accreditation system in place of regulation expose serious failure in the current framework . rely on good faith actor to seek accreditation voluntarily mean , by definition , that bad faith manage company continue to operate freely in this country . we can not accept that . for every manage company fail in its duty , there be multiple leaseholder be rip off . the fact be clear , and inaction be not an option . early this year , FirstPort have its TPI accreditation strip due to breach of membership rule . yet just three month later , it be readmitte . I recently visit Sherleys Court , a retirement complex in Ruislip manage by FirstPort . I hear story from resident who , after a lifetime of hard work , move in expect to enjoy the next chapter of their life . instead , they be meet with extortionate service fee with little to no explanation or itemisation . their serious concern about how their money be be manage be fall on deaf ear , and their feedback on shoddy maintenance work be once again ignore . the story of the St Andrew ' s Park development in Uxbridge — which be also manage by FirstPort — be just as dire . resident report flooding , damp and mould issue that be not remedied . I recently conduct a survey of resident ; a staggering 50 % of respondent say that they have not receive a response from FirstPort follow attempt to communicate with the company . if I go to those resident and tell they that , in just three month , their manage company have lose and then regain accreditation , I be sure they would question what have actually change , and they would rightly ask what process have lead to that decision . the readmission of FirstPort lay bare the limitation of the current system and the urgent need for a clear regulatory framework to define and enforce the standard expect of all manage agent . the Bill will introduce an independent property regulator , grant licence to agent base on check , include the fulfilment of legal obligation , and mandate qualification to ensure minimum competency standard for agent and property manager . without those provision , leaseholder and the sector as a whole bear the financial burden of a lack of regulation . research by the TPI show that introduce an independent regulator would be largely cost - neutral , with the benefit of improved professionalism , accountability and consumer confidence offset any additional administrative cost . there be a significant cost of inaction : a human cost . too many people have be rip off for far too long , but after year that have be financially difficult for so many , this Government have a drive to make people well off and feel listened to , and when it come to the plight of leaseholder , this Bill be a necessary step in do just that . since this Government be form , we have rightly hear a lot about the housing crisis and how it be our responsibility to fix it . the crisis do not begin and end with brick and mortar , although build 1 . 5 million home be an absolute imperative . it also come down to a deep concept : security in our home , for those in the private rent sector and in social housing , and for homeowner too . this Bill can help towards deliver security for leaseholder , who for far too long have be leave in a cripplingly insecure and exploitative situation . the total failing of the leasehold system extend beyond that which can be fix by one piece of legislation , but the Bill will be a vital step forward in the Government ' s mission to deliver justice for all leaseholder . they say that your home be your castle , but for too long leaseholder have often feel that their home be a prison . they feel under attack by their management company — the company that be there to serve and protect they , and to whom they pay a significant sum in management fee for the pleasure . with this Bill , we can build defence through a proper regulatory framework , and by ensure that company be properly qualified and an accountability mechanism clearly exist . those measure be all desperately need . question put and agree to . order , that Danny Beales , Joe Powell , Nesil Caliskan , Chris Bloore , Chris Curtis , Dr Rupa Huq , Sarah Russell , Rachel Blake , Andrew Cooper , James Naish , Daniel Francis and Cat Eccles present the Bill . Danny Beales accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 287 ) . property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill [ Lords ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill be a pivotal step in the evolution of our legal system — one that ensure that the law remain relevant and pre - eminent in the digital age . as we set out in our plan for change , this Government be fully commit to provide investor and business with stability and certainty . this Bill will help to provide that certainty for people and business who own and transact with digital asset . this will help drive economic growth by encourage innovation , attract investment and reinforce the UK ' s position as a global hub for digital finance and technology . do the Minister agree with I that although the Bill be small , it be very much mighty ? it be important that we get the Bill on the statute book because we want this country to be ahead of the game on these issue . my hon . friend be right . we want the UK to remain the pre - eminent jurisdiction of choice for legal service , as it currently be . this evolution of our law will enable it to remain a global hub for digital finance and tech . overall it be a Bill that reflect our legal heritage , embrace technological innovation and prepare our nation for the future . to appreciate the significance of the Bill , we must begin with the foundation of property law in England and Wales . for century , our legal system have categorise personal property as two distinct type : first , thing in possession — tangible item that can be physically hold or possess , such as a book , jewellery or gold ; and secondly , thing in action — intangible right that can only be claim or enforce through legal action , such as debt , share or contractual right . these category have serve we well for hundred of year , provide clarity in ownership and facilitate commerce . they have help to create legal certainty in matter range from succession and insolvency to trust structure and collateral arrangement . the digital revolution introduce a new class of asset — digital asset — that do not fit neatly into either of the traditional category . as thing stand , we look to 19th - century case law , which set out that a thing can only be property if it fit into the two traditional category of thing in action and thing in possession . the unique characteristic of digital asset , like crypto token , challenge the boundary of these legal category . unlike physical object , digital asset can not be hold in one ' s hand . unlike debt or contractual right , digital asset have an independent existence in the world that be not dependent on their recognition by a legal system . yet certain digital asset possess the characteristic that the common law recognise as make they suitable to attract property right . for example , certain digital asset , like crypto token , be rivalrous , mean their use by one person prevent simultaneous use by other . by contrast to crypto token , some digital thing , like Word document , be not rivalrous and so be not recognise by the common law as be capable of attract property right . for example , if I be to send you , Madam Deputy Speaker , a Word document , I retain a copy , but if I transfer a crypto token , I no long possess it . this be due to the underlie blockchain technology that ensure immutability , scarcity and non - duplicability — feature that make certain digital asset capable of attract personal property right even if they be not a thing in possession or a thing in action . recent case law have begin to recognise that certain digital asset can attract personal property right . however , these decision have not come forward in precedent - set court , and thus the legal landscape remain uncertain . this ambiguity risk stifle innovation , as innovator be unsure what protection they have or whether they will be able to monetise their creation . it also put off investor from invest in crypto token in favour of more traditional and predictable form of investment . if we do not act , we risk our global competitor get ahead and put in place the kind of certainty in their own legal system that will divert investment away from this country . recognise the urgency of this issue , in 2020 , under the previous Government , the Ministry of Justice commission the Law Commission to review the legal framework surround crypto token and other digital asset . the commission ' s 2023 report be unequivocal : certain digital asset should be recognise as capable of attract property right , and legislation be need to reflect this . the Government have respond decisively . the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill be the result — a concise yet powerful piece of legislation that affirm our commitment to legal clarity , economic growth and technological leadership . the Bill contain a single operative clause . it recognise that a thing , include a thing that be digital or electronic , be not prevent from attract personal property right merely because it be not a thing in possession nor a thing in action . the Bill allow the court to develop a further category of personal property through our common law . importantly , the Bill do not attempt to define which digital asset may qualify , nor do it prescribe the legal consequence of fall within this category . these matter be rightly leave to the common law , which , with its flexibility and nuance , be well suit to assess each asset on its characteristic . this be in accordance with long - establish common - law test for property . this approach reflect the strength of our tradition . it capitalise on the adaptability and flexibility of the common law by empower the court to apply establish legal test to emerge technology . this ensure that our legal system remain responsive , relevant and resilient . we stand today at the intersection of law and innovation , where century of legal tradition meet the boundless potential of the digital age . the Bill be not just legal reform : it be an important step for our law and for the global digital economy , because digital asset be here to stay . from crypto token to voluntary carbon credit , these asset be reshape how we transact , invest and interact — and yet , until now , our private law have struggle to keep pace . this Bill change that . first and foremost , the Bill provide legal certainty . it confirm that certain digital asset can be recognise as personal property . this be a fundamental shift . it mean that individual and business can now rely on clear legal right and protection when deal with thing such as crypto token . that be because certain digital asset can now attract the same legal protection as other form of property , which mean that owner of thing such as crypto token can enforce their right if the asset be steal . whether it be theft , insolvency or inheritance , the law will now stand ready to protect those property right . by clarify the legal status of digital asset , the Bill reduce ambiguity and streamline litigation . that be because the court will no long have to spend time debate whether further category exist or try to force digital asset into the traditional category . that clarity will save time , reduce cost and ensure fair outcome for all party involve . as I have say , the Bill also support our ambition to be a centre of innovation and growth . it encourage fintech start - up , scale - up and global enterprise to choose English and Welsh or Northern irish law for their transaction , know that these legal system be equip to handle the complexity of digital asset . the Bill thus unlock practical economic benefit . it assist in allow digital asset to be include in estate for inheritance and claim by creditor in insolvency . these capability will fuel innovation , support new financial product and drive economic growth . crucially , the Bill do not attempt rigidly to define every type of digital asset . instead , as I have say , it allow the common law to evolve , give our court the flexibility to adapt to technology that have not yet even be imagine . that be one of the hallmark of a progressive , forward - think legal system such as ours . this Bill attract significant cross - party support in the other place . for example , it be describe by Lord Holmes as " a short Bill , but one with significant impact for the UK , and indeed beyond our shore " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 8 May 2025 ; Vol . 845 , c . 1695 . ] it be also describe as a Bill that " send a signal to all those involve in digital asset " that " London and the United Kingdom be an excellent place " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 8 May 2025 ; Vol . 1696 , c . 845 . ] to do business . in the same vein , Lord Sandhurst note that the Bill be " small but perfectly form " and that it will " make an important contribution to the development of the law . . . and assist judge and litigant in ensure that necessary protection be give to activity and thing in the digital sphere . . . which might otherwise fail to be protect " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 8 May 2025 ; Vol . 845 , c . 1696 . ] those be not just word of praise : they be affirmation of the Bill ' s importance , clarity and potential to shape the global legal and economic landscape . one noble Lord remark on Third reading that " the world be watch " , and rightly so . we have a proud tradition of legal excellence and a thriving fintech ecosystem . with trillion of pound in global economic activity expect to be transact via digital asset by the end of the decade , we must ensure that our legal infrastructure be not only fit for purpose , but fit for the future . this Bill be a critical step in realise that potential . of course , the Bill undergo much scrutiny in the House of Lords , and two amendment be make to it . the first extend the territorial scope of the Bill to include Northern Ireland . we be glad that our law can be align in this area and that the benefit of this Bill will be feel more widely . the second amendment be to the Bill ' s long title . that be to ensure consistency between the title and the Bill ' s operative clause . I be certain that we now have the good possible version of this Bill before we . the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill be a testament to the strength and adaptability of our legal tradition . it reflect our commitment to innovation , our respect for the rule of law and our ambition to lead on the global stage . it be describe in the Lords as " future facing , future - proof , growth enable ground - breaking and good for innovation , investment , citizen , consumer and the country " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 30 April 2025 ; Vol . 845 , c . 1297 . ] I could not agree more . it be a Bill for the future — a future in which digital asset play a central role in our economy , our society and our life . by pass this Bill , we be not only clarify the law , but shape that future . let we seize this opportunity and send a clear message to the world that we be ready , willing and able to lead in the digital age . I call the shadow Minister . I rise on behalf of the official Opposition to express our support for the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill . I do not have the benefit of be a learn Member like the Minister , so I have enjoy get to understand what property law look like in the UK . as the Minister say , this Bill come before this House from the other place , where it have already receive careful and consider scrutiny . I particularly acknowledge the contribution make there by the noble Lord Holmes of Richmond , whose deep expertise in digital and emerge technology greatly enrich the debate , and the noble Lord Sandhurst , who rightly describe this Bill as " a necessary but appropriately constrain measure . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 6 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . gc284 . ] this Bill both preserve the inherent flexibility of the common law and provide just enough statutory clarity to support continued innovation and legal certainty in a fast - move world . recognise the need in 2020 , the previous Conservative Government ask the Law Commission to examine how the law of personal property should respond to digital asset . the commission undertake extensive consultation and conclude that some asset defy current classification . in response , it recommend confirm in statute that asset need not be thing in possession or in action to attract property right , pave the way for a third category of personal property and ensure that our common law can continue to evolve with confidence and coherence . this may be a short Bill , but it carry significant weight for not just the UK ' s legal framework , but our global reputation as a leader in digital innovation . as other jurisdiction watch how we respond to technological change , this Bill reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to legal clarity , innovation and economic competitiveness . we have a world - lead fintech ecosystem , and with trillion of pound in digital asset transaction expect globally by the end of the decade , the UK must ensure that it remain at the forefront , support innovation , financial inclusion and the future of capital market . this Bill also complement a wide programme of regulatory reform already under way in the UK . since 2023 , firm promote crypto asset have be subject to Financial Conduct Authority rule , include mandatory risk warning and a 24 - hour cool - off period for new consumer . Anti - money laundering rule apply , and crypto firm must register with the FCA . in 2025 , the Government publish draft legislation to bring a wide range of crypto asset activity , such as trading platform and custody service , under full financial regulation . the FCA and the Bank of England be also consult on new rule for stablecoin , prudential safeguard and the safe custody of digital asset , while the Bank explore the future of a potential central bank digital currency , the " digital pound " . those effort , take together with this Bill , represent a join - up and forward - look approach to digital asset regulation in the UK . as the Minister explain , for century the law have recognise two traditional category of personal property : thing in possession , refer to tangible object such as a bar of gold , and thing in action , such as debt or contractual right enforceable only through legal process . however , the rise of the digital economy have introduce a grow range of asset that defy those historical classification . from crypto token and digital file to in - game item and carbon credit , individual and business now interact with a third category of asset . this Bill introduce that third category of personal property by confirm what the court have be increasingly willing to suggest : that a thing be not preclude from be treat as property merely because it do not fit the traditional mould . it do so in a deliberately modest way , allow the common law to evolve with technological change , rather than attempt to predict or prescribe it . as Lord Sandhurst put it in the other place , we should champion the flexibility of the common law and legislate only to reinforce and clarify development already emerge within it . this Bill strike the right balance : it be principle in substance but careful in its implication . it give confidence to our court , clarity to commercial actor and reassurance to individual navigate digital ownership . we welcome the Government ' s amendment in the other place to extend this legislation to Northern Ireland and the agreement of the Northern Ireland Assembly to that extension . I understand that the Scottish Government have consult separately on the question of recognise crypto token as property under scot law . let I take a moment to welcome the Government ' s state intention in the impact assessment of reduce the burden on business by improve clarity in this space . at a time when digital asset be increasingly use as a means of payment , representation or value storage , it be vital that our legal architecture keep pace — not to control innovation , but to support it with the rule of law . we on the conservative Benches be commit to ensure that our legal system remain fit for the 21st century and can accommodate new technology while safeguard right and responsibility . while we be pleased to support this Bill , let we not lose sight of the broad context . after a year of downgrade growth forecast , our economy contracting , unemployment and inflation rise and borrowing cost creep up , the UK urgently need legal reform that drive up competitiveness and economic growth . like the recent reform to our international legal procedure , it be no coincidence that this Bill stem from a review commission by the last Conservative Administration — a Government who really understand the importance of forward - think legal reform to support technological and financial innovation to drive economic growth . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise in support of the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill , which stand to bring our legal framework into the 21st century and well equip it to meet the challenge and opportunity of the digital age . this Bill be firmly rooted in the rigorous work of the Law Commission , which be follow by careful scrutiny in the other place . I thank peer for their work on the Bill , particularly Lord Tim Clement - Jones for scrutinise it on behalf of the Liberal Democrats . this Bill confront the long - stand legal ambiguity about how our common law system treat digital asset . as the Minister explain , and as I vaguely remember from my day at law school , the law as it stand recognise two primary form of personal property — thing in possession and thing in action . however , we live in an ever - change digital world , in which everything be much more base on digital than that common - law approach allow for . Digital asset , which can not be physically possess and often do not constitute a claim against another person , do not fall into the two traditional category . without clarity about the law , we risk undermine individual right and weaken legal solution in case involve crypto asset , non - fungible token and other digital holding . that be why this Bill matter ; it ensure that digital thing be not deny property status simply because they do not fall into the two normal category . that be why the Liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s decision to accept the Law Commission ' s recommendation . this Bill be appropriate at this time , when we be see a grow use of digital asset across a variety of sector . they be be use as investment , store for value and token of identity and ownership by more and more people than ever before — recent figure from the Financial Conduct Authority indicate that nearly 12 % of UK adult now hold crypto asset , a figure that have more than double since 2021 . however , victim of fraud , those seek restitution in case of insolvency , or simply those wish to assert ownership over what they rightfully hold have be operate in a murky legal landscape . this Bill leave room for common law to develop in that sphere of property . that will help the law to reflect the ever - evolve nature of technology , but it must be monitor over time to ensure that regulation ultimately align with the need to protect individual ’ right and support the economy . we know that digital asset mean potential risk — whether fraud , abuse , or volatility — but ignore they or fail to regulate they effectively will not make those risk disappear . a legal vacuum only increase the risk of criminality and injustice , while a clear , modern legal framework empower the honest majority , boost confidence and support innovation . this Bill be measure , cautious and essential . it provide legal clarity , uphold property right , and ensure that our law remain relevant in the digital world . it be support by the Law Society , by legal practitioner , and by the Liberal Democrats . I hope everyone in this Chamber support it , too . with the leave of the House , let I say how grateful I be to those who have contribute to today ' s debate , in a rare expression of consensus . I welcome the comment of the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) and of the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) . the quality of the discussion , both in this House and in the other place , reflect the significance of the Bill that be before we . as I have say , it be the product of rigorous analysis and wide consultation . I pay tribute to the Law Commission for its landmark report , and to the many practitioner , academic , business and organisation that have engage so constructively throughout the process . at its heart , the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill be about ensure that our legal system keep pace with technological change . it be a clear , confident step into the future , one that reaffirm the UK ' s place as a global leader in legal innovation , financial service and digital commerce , and it be a central part of this Government ' s plan for change and for growth . for those reason , I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill [ Lords ] : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . standard I beg to move , that this House approve the Third Report of the Committee on Standards , Session 2024 – 25 , HC 943 , on Register of Interests of Members ' staff , subject to any transitional arrangement agree by the Committee on Standards , and amend the provision endorse by the Resolution of the House of 28 June 1993 as follow : member ' staff who hold a permanent photo - identity pass or have be grant a parliamentary network account be require to register in the Register of Interests of Members ' staff , subject to the threshold set out in that Register : " any occupation or employment for which they receive over £ 470 from the same source in the course of a calendar year , if that occupation or employment be in any way advantage by the privileged access to Parliament afford by either a photo - identity pass or a Parliamentary Network Account ; any gift ( eg jewellery ) or benefit ( eg hospitality , service ) they receive , if the gift or benefit in any way relate to or arise from their work in Parliament and its value exceed £ 470 in the course of a calendar year ; and / or any visit undertake that have be pay for by a third party , if it in any way relate to or arise from their work in Parliament . " the motion before we , which stand in my name , be move on behalf of the Committee on Standards and relate to the Register of Interests of Members ' Staff . I welcome the Committee ' s consideration of this matter and its report . if approve , the motion would widen the boundary of who have to register their interest in the Register of Interests of Members ' staff to include all those who have a parliamentary network account , as oppose to the current position , under which only staff who hold a photo - identity pass for the estate need to register their interest . the Committee ' s report , which be available to the House , outline that the intention behind this expansion of the register be to reflect current working practice . there have be a significant increase in the number of staff who have full access to parliamentary information and material without need to be present on the estate . as the Committee ' s report have outline , that have result in more than half the staff employ by member not be require to make a transparency return . I be grateful to the Chair of the Committee , the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , and to its member for all their hard work on this matter . I know that the Chair will want to contribute to this debate to outline some of the background to the Committee ' s work , and how it intend to implement this measure should the House approve it today . I can assure the House that the intention be to provide time for the Committee to make any transitional and technical arrangement necessary for the introduction of the change , and that detail will be provide to all member and staff . on that basis , I commend the motion to the House . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I thank the Leader of the House for those word . I would like , in support the motion , to add one small cautionary note . it have be relay to I , both by constituency staff and by other body , particularly the trade union , that there be a concern that it might be possible to connect the name release in the official public register with the email address use by staff . I would be grateful if the Committee devote some consideration to that concern , among the other issue that it will wish to reflect on far , to ensure that this ruling be as good and effective as possible . I , too , thank the Leader of the House for so quickly come forward with a proposal to enact the sole recommendation of my Committee ' s third report of this Session . the Committee agree its report on 12 June , and here we be , barely a month later , seek to put its recommendation into practice . the change we propose be straightforward and quite confine , but none the less it be a real pleasure to see our proposal make such quick progress . as today ' s motion make clear , the Register of Interests of Members ' staff — those whom we as mp employ to help we in our work — have be in its present form since 1993 . at that time , it be consider that Members ' staff have privileged access to the parliamentary estate and its facility because they hold a pass allow they physical access . it be therefore those staff , and those staff only , who be require to register any relevant interest . time have change , as time be will not to do . the arrival in the intervene 32 year of such minor innovation as the internet and mobile telephony have enable remote access to the estate in a way that be not envisage when the register be first create . there have also be a substantial growth in the practice of work from home , and it be now entirely possible — in a way it be not then — for our constituency - base staff to have access to parliamentary information and facility without ever set foot within the precinct of the Palace of Westminster . in a sense , we be act quickly to catch up slowly on the way that work and working practice have alter . at the time of our report a month ago , around 2 , 000 pass have be issue to our staff , but around 4 , 200 member of staff have parliamentary network access . the change the Committee propose simply mean that all those who have such access will be require to register any interest arise from the list set out in the motion . it will be a small , but important , reinforcement of the transparency that the House properly seek in how the parliamentary community do its vital work . the change , as the Leader of the House suggest , will not happen instantly if the House agree to the motion . the Committee have seek to include a transitional provision in the motion to enable the Standards Committee to press " go " once the Registrar of Members ' Financial Interests have satisfy we that the IT solution require , of which we have see example , be robust and ready to go . I thank the shadow Leader of the House for his comment and the concern that he note in respect of the motion . the Committee be aware of the concern , raise via Unite the union and by some staff , that a new requirement to register interest will place their name on a public register , and the Committee and I have offer to meet staff representative during the transition period to hear those concern and also , if necessary , to consider whether amelioration may be require , and I will report to the Leader of the House if that prove to be the case . I be grateful to Unite for raise those concern with the Committee , and I be also grateful to it for say that it approve of the principle behind the change . with that caveat in mind , the Committee hope that the new arrangement will be in place in the autumn , and , in conjunction with the Registrar , we will seek to publicise the change to ensure that all member be able to encourage their staff to register as require . let I again thank the Leader of the House for respond so promptly , and I thank the shadow Leader of the House for note the concern that have be raise by some . I trust that the House will feel able to approve these new arrangement . I thank the Chair of the Standards Committee for explain the background to the report . I have give he this commitment , both privately and publicly : I be keen to bring the recommendation of Standards Committee report to the Floor of the House as soon as possible , and I hope that I have show willing by do that so quickly on this occasion . I also thank the hon . gentleman for his reassurance to the shadow Leader of the House and to the trade union — particularly Unite — which I know fully support the principle of this measure and the intention behind it , although I think that , as the shadow Leader say , there be some concern about the creation of an entire register for staff member with nil return that could perhaps be " farm " by those try to lobby people and gain access to they , with their name and email address out there for public view . I look forward to the hon . Gentleman consulting and work with the union in the come week on how this can be deliver . if any change be necessary , my door , as ever , will be open . I thank he and the whole Committee , and I thank the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards for all his work with the Committee on this issue and many other . question put and agree to . give every child the best Start in Life I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of give every child the good start in life . this Government have a mission to break down the barrier to opportunity for child and young people , so that background do not determine a child ' s future and success . after 14 dark year under the conservative party , we be restore to our community the hope that , in too many place and for too many family , simply fade away . what this Government inherit be a truly shameful legacy . the Conservatives have 14 year in government , and their record speak for itself : 1 , 300 child ' s centre close or hollow out , early year childcare cost spiral way above the rate of inflation , and provider closing year on year . I know that Conservative Members , very few of whom be present , will bleat that in their manifesto they promise well , but the people of Britain judge politician by what they deliver , not what they promise . at the heart of labour ' s ambition for a well Britain be bring change to the first few year of every life , so that opportunity be not the privilege of a few but be common to we all . child ' s early year be crucial to their development , health and life chance , and it be there that we can make the big difference . on average , 40 % of the overall gap between disadvantaged 16 - year - old and their peer have already emerge by the age of five . it be in those early year that so much of the inequality that today disfigure our society be entrench . if we want to build the fair and more equal society that Labour member want to see , that be where we lay the foundation . if we want to see change — change for good — the transformation that we seek to bring must be part of a wide approach that cover every aspect of education and health , and every facet of opportunity . that be why the Government have publish our vision for the future of early year . this landmark strategy , which will bring together early year and family service , and will put child ' s first year at the heart of work to improve life chance , be back by nearly £ 1 . 5 billion over the next three year to raise quality , close gap and break down the barrier to opportunity for every child . " give every child the good start in life " set out the first step to deliver on our plan for change commitment for a record number of child to be ready to start school by 2028 . we will make early education and childcare more accessible and affordable , improve quality in the early year and reception , and expand and strengthen family service . this build on the progress that we be already make : fund new and expand school - base nursery across the country , fund new breakfast club in 750 early adopter school and offer place to nearly 180 , 000 child , include 79 , 000 pupil from school in the most deprived part of the country . from September we will be roll out 30 hour of fund childcare for work parent , save eligible parent use their full entitlement an average of £ 7 , 500 a year . it should be the case that all parent who want it can obtain the high - quality early education and childcare that they need , yet four in 10 parent with child under five say that there be not enough place locally . disadvantaged child and those with special educational need and disability have the most to gain from high - quality early education , yet more affluent area often have more place . we will improve the system , set out a long - term vision for improve access to early year education and childcare to ensure that all family can benefit . we will create ten of thousand more place in new and expand school - base nursery , back by more than £ 400 million of investment . we will roll out the expansion of funded childcare hour available to work parent , save eligible family an average of £ 7 , 500 a year . we will work closely with local authority to increase the take - up of the 15 - hour entitlement , so that child from low - income family , those with SEND and those in care receive the support they need . as a result of the decision make by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the Government will soon be fund about 80 % of the early education and childcare hour in England . whenever the Government buy a service , they have an obligation to use that purchasing power in the public interest , to shape the market , improve standard , and support and develop the workforce . that be what Labour believe , and that be what we will do . we think we could do more to guarantee the benefit of that investment , and to ensure that they be realise where they be need . we will look across the early education and childcare support provide by department to find way in which to make it simple , to improve access , and to increase the overall impact of government spending on child and family . I have the privilege of be able to see at first hand the impact that our passionate early year staff have in many setting across the country during my regular visit . they have work brilliantly to deliver for family at every stage of the expansion of government - fund childcare , and they continue to do so ahead of September . family know the difference that access to a place that meet their need can make . that be why we be invest more than £ 9 billion in early education and childcare , and why a diverse and thriving early year sector with a brilliant and value workforce be absolutely key . we will work with the early year sector to support brilliant setting to grow and spread their expertise , and that will include work alongside philanthropist and social investor to encourage new not - for - profit provider to open . we want early year career to be one that people be proud to start and that be rewarding to pursue . that mean have more opportunity to gain qualification , enter the workforce and build fulfil career . childminder play an integral role in our early year landscape and be treasure by many family , which be why we will keep work with Jobcentre plus to encourage people to become childminder . however , have listen to the sector , we will also make sure that childminder and other provider can be pay monthly for funded hour , make their income more stable . alongside a strong market , we want to drive high standard through a strengthened improvement and accountability system that support and drive high - quality provision for setting and family . that include funding for Ofsted to inspect setting more often and to inspect new setting within 18 month of opening . the early year workforce be at the heart of this Government ' s mission to give every child the good start in life . we be make sure that a high - quality start transition into start school by make reception year a national priority for the regional improvement for standard and excellence — rise — team . we want high - quality evidence to underpin the training , support and development of people work in early year setting , from the baby room to the reception year . this will mean that passionate people can grow their skill and career , and help every child to thrive . together with educator and leader , we will drive high and rise standard by work with provider and school to equip to they with the tool , training and support that they need to meet every child ' s need . alongside raise the standard of early year educator by introduce a professional register , we will increase the number of qualified early year teacher , and we aim to more than double the number of fund early year initial teacher training place by 2028 . we will also offer financial incentive to attract and keep early year teacher in nursery serve the most disadvantaged community , so that every child , no matter where they live , can benefit from high - quality early education . the SEND system we inherit from the conservative party have totally lose the confidence of family , and this Labour Government be absolutely committed to restore that confidence . the last Conservative Education Secretary label the system that she leave behind as " lose , lose , lose " , while current shadow minister say that they do not do enough on SEND and should hang their head in shame . we agree — the difference be that we be do something about it . we will make inclusive practice standard practice in the early year by embed an inclusive approach in our workforce education , training and leadership opportunity , and by fund evidence - base programme that be prove to improve child ' s development . we will drive improvement in the quality of teaching in reception and ensure that school have access to the right tool and tailor improvement , include by help each parent to play their part and be confident in their child ' s progress . this renew vision for the early year go hand in hand with a national approach to family service — one that bring together health , education and social care around the need of family , child and baby . that be why I be proud that this Government have establish Best Start family hub that will be fund across all local authority , build on the good of sure Start , family hub and start for life approach . the Minister mention family hub , which I welcome , but he state that they will be deliver by local authority area . in my area of Surrey , we be go through local government reorganisation . how will the roll - out be impact by that reorganisation ? do he expect to roll out a plan over the next couple of year , and then to reorganise it after a new council have be create ? we be obviously work through the detail of our commitment as I speak , but I will certainly take his point back to the Department — I know that official be work very closely with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . what be really powerful be the fact that we will roll out family hub to every local authority in the country to make sure that they make a real difference to every child ' s life . we be invest over £ 500 million to expand Best Start family hub to every local authority in England , ensure that wherever they live , family can access join - up , high - quality support from pregnancy through to the early year . as part of this investment , we be provide dedicated funding to deliver evidence - base support for the home learn environment , with a particular focus on disadvantaged family and the quality of parent - child relationship . we want to support parent to create rich and nurture home environment by encourage they to chat , play and read more with their child , because we know that those everyday interaction be the building block of early development . in order to help meet our ambition for 75 % of child to achieve a good level of development by the age of five , we will fund more evidence - base parenting and home learning programme so that more family can access those service before their child start school . that will be support by a new national Best Start digital service , link to " my Children " on the NHS app , which will bring together the trust advice and guidance that all parent need in one place , and link family to their local service . the Labour Government be commit to break down the barrier to opportunity , and the early year be where we do that most powerfully . our ambition be clear : to make early year education the good it can be for child in all setting . this be the start of a decade of national renewal for family and the support that they receive . we will go far and fast to ensure that every child have the good start in life and the chance to achieve and to thrive . I call the shadow Minister . everybody want to give child the good start in life . that be why we increase spending per pupil in school by 11 % in real term in the last Parliament , and why we double real - term spend on the free entitlement for the early year . more importantly , it be why we push through difficult reform to school , which be often oppose by the Labour party . it be why we bring in the knowledge - rich curriculum , why we bring in strong accountability , and why we push through the academy revolution and more parental choice . the Minister say that our record speak for itself , and it do . labour ' s record speak for itself as well . between 2009 and 2022 , England go from 21st to seventh in the programme for international student assessment league table for math , while Wales — spend the same amount as before — go from 29th to 27th . [ interruption . ] labour mp clearly do not like hear this , but I be afraid I be go to carry on . in science , England go from 11th to ninth , while Wales — with same amount of money as before but run by Labour , with no reform — slump from 21st to 29th . on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? I be happy to take an intervention . I thank the shadow Minister for take my intervention ; he be always very generous with his time . I will give he a friendly intervention . I be go to criticise the conservative for a lack of attendance in this debate , but he say the word " no reform " , and I notice that there be no Reform mps present for this important debate . when I speak in the general election campaign about education and it be the turn of the Reform candidate in Harlow to give we his view on the party ' s vision for education , he do not have an answer . do the shadow Minister agree that we do not want the Reform party anywhere near education ? the hon . Gentleman be completely right , and it be not the first time — it be generally the case that no one from Reform be present . on this issue , I be afraid that reform mp be chronically absent , as we say in education . I will continue with my theme . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have point out that the huge difference in performance , and the divergence in performance , between England and Wales can not be explain by poverty rate or ethnicity . it be to do with the reform that be not undertake because of trade union pressure in Wales . I agree that it be crucial to measure the progress of our child in key subject to give they the good opportunity in life , but do the shadow Minister not accept , as I and many other do , that the climb up the international league table be cause by restrict the breadth of the curriculum ? that have come at the detriment of many opportunity for child over recent year . I do not think that be true . look at the evidence pack produce by the Government ' s curriculum review , it be clear that some of the argument be overstate . it be true that we reverse the decline in the number of young people take double and triple science ; that have be fall for year , and it go back up again because there be more focus on science . it be true that there be a limited number of hour in the school day , but I do not accept that we have some sort of gradgrindian educational agenda . there continue to be a broad and balanced agenda . if Labour member want to say that much more time should be spend on a particular subject , they should at least be clear about where it will come from . child in England be rank the good in math in the whole western world in the 2023 trend in international mathematic and science study , and they move into the top five in the global ranking for science . what happen in Wales and Scotland ? we do not know , as their administration remove themselves from those competition because they do not like accountability . it be the same at all level . whereas we favour parental choice and autonomy for school , balance by strong accountability , the current Government take a very different approach . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which be currently in the Lords , dilute parental choice , and it give local politician more control over pupil number for the first time since 1988 . the great autonomy for school that we bring in have be replace by a tide of micromanagement of curriculum and staff , and the absurd situation where if someone want to put up a bicycle shed they have to apply to the Secretary of State . on the other hand , the ultimate form of accountability — place school under new management via academy order — be be slow down and stop , which have be criticise even by Labour mp such as the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . the Labour party ' s attempt to mess around with Ofsted to please the trade union have water down accountability for parent and make thing more complicated , but they have not make anybody happy ; nobody be happy with what have be propose in the end . the Government have axe all the form of support that we be make available to school for subject from advanced physics to math , latin and advanced computing — they think they be elitist . they have also axe the behaviour hub , even though there be clear evidence that they be work and school that go through they be twice as likely to be good or outstanding afterwards . the reform agenda be just not there . at one point , the Government ' s big answer be that they be go to employ 6 , 500 more teacher : they be go to increase vat and employ all these extra teacher . the Chancellor say at the end of last year that every single penny of that vat increase would go to education , but then , confusingly , the Prime Minister say that the money have be spend on social housing instead . it have be a long time since I study formal logic , but we can not spend every single penny on education and also spend that money on housing ; we can not spend it on two thing . as it happen , we now know that actually there be not those extra teacher ; there be 400 few teacher . we add 27 , 000 teacher under the last government and under Labour there be 400 few teacher . at the point when the number come out show that there be few teacher , the Government suddenly declare that primary school teacher do not count — that the fall of 2 , 900 in primary school teacher number do not count . minister imply that that have always be their intention — they say , " how dare you say that wasn ' t our intention ? " — but they announce this policy in a primary school , and they say they would hit their target for early year through an increase in primary . now they say , " oh , number be fall in primary , " but number be fall by a lot less than when they make the pledge in the update forecast . if we apply the same logic , half of secondary school have fall number , so perhaps that will be the next way they try to monkey around with the number to pretend that the opposite be happen . I would not mind so much if we do not get these chirpy press release from the Department say , " we ' re do so well ; we ' ve get all these extra teacher . " there be few teacher — that be the bottom line in what have happen here . I thank the shadow Minister for give way again ; he be be very generous with his time . I have to say , as a former teacher who leave the profession because of the way we be treat by the previous Government , that I always feel a little bit gaslit by the Conservative party . I would just point out to he that during the previous Government ' s time in office , a third of new teacher be leave the profession within five year . do he not recognise that the pressure put on teacher by the previous Government , the lack of support and the general lack of faith in teacher make a number of they leave , and we lose so much experience that it have be very difficult to get back ? there be several thing to say about that . the first be that the overall number go up : the hon . Gentleman say that some be leave , but the overall number go up by 27 , 000 . he make a good point about early career teacher and that be why we put in the early career framework , which I do think be a big improvement . it be not that there be nothing in what the hon . Gentleman say , but I do think it be funny for he to stand up and talk about gaslighte when the Government be pump out glossy propaganda say that there be more teacher , even though their own Department for Education website say that there be 400 few teacher . so do tell I all about gaslighte . my broad worry about the Government ' s approach to give every child the good start in life be that it miss the wood for the tree . minister like to talk about some of the small intervention they be make , such as the £ 33 million they be spend on breakfast club and the " good start in life " centre and the increase in spending there . but on the other side of the ledger , how be this be pay for ? it be be pay for with a £ 25 billion increase in national insurance , and , unbelievably for a notionally social democratic Government , that national insurance increase be brutally target on the low income worker . it be incredible . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for give way — order . I should say that the hon . Member be a shadow Minister , before you give he with a promotion . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I ask the shadow Minister how his party would fund the investment in early year propose by the new Government ? I be very grateful to be put right back in my box by Madam Deputy Speaker , and rightly so . I would not fund that by increase taxis on low income worker by £ 25 billion . that mean that someone who be earn £ 13 , 000 a year lose £ 500 . it mean someone earn £ 9 , 000 a year be lose 5 % of their income . minister like to talk about the distributional impact of thing like breakfast club and so on — they say 100 , 000 kid will be lift out of poverty by something they be do — but they will not produce any poverty analysis or any distributional analysis of the £ 25 billion . they be happy to talk endlessly about the distributional impact of tiny measure , but not the £ 25 billion takeaway from low income work people in this country . I think it be astonishing — and I think a lot of Labour mp will regret it later — that this be the way they have choose to raise all this money . let I ask a few specific question while we be here . the Department for Education have confirm to the specialist medium that it do not hold any information on the number of child who will lose entitlement to free school meal as a result of the end of the universal credit transitional protection , yet it claim to be confident that it know that the change it be make will reduce child poverty by 100 , 000 . how can the Department not know how many kid be go to be on free school meal yet be confident that it will have a positive effect ? I ask the Minister to answer the question very simply : what proportion of pupil will be eligible for free school meal this year and in all future year across the forecast ? how much will we be spend in real term in each of those year ? I like lot of thing about the " good start in life " programme — it be a continuation of our family hub programme — and I wonder whether the Minister could set out exactly how much will be spend on that programme in the ' 26 - 27 , ' 27 - 28 and ' 28 - 29 financial year . it be not a bad programme at all and we do not dislike it at all ; the only thing that be not right be to pretend it be a completely new thing , when in fact it be a continuity of something that already exist . something that be new that Ministers promise be two week of work experience for every child at secondary school . can the Minister tell I how that pledge be go ? it be make by the Prime Minister and be the big highlight of his ' 21 conference speech . how many school currently offer two week of work experience each year ? finally , I have a question of principle really . the Minister quite rightly talk about SEND , and we have an important report from the Education Policy Institute this morning about the overlap between SEND and school achievement , and the Government have say two thing . we hear from a Health Minister that the Government want to see a small proportion of child in special school , and we have hear from the Minister ' s adviser on SEND that she think that they be have a conversation at the moment about not have education , health and care plan for child outside special school , which cover about 300 , 000 child at the moment — 60 % of all child with an EHCP . those be huge change , but be it not the case that those two policy reform be potentially in tension ? if we tell people that they can not get an ehcp outside a special school , more parent will want to go to the special school . minister have talk about there always be some kind of legal right to support for special need , but what do that mean : if the support be not be deliver by an EHCP , how will it be deliver ? I ask these question because a lot of special need parent be worried about that ; they be concerned about what the Government be plan . maybe they be wrong and maybe the Government have a brilliant plan on all this , and we be not against reform , but at the moment , there be big question about the idea that be now slosh around in the public domain , worry people . I encourage Ministers to move quickly to certainty on these question so that people ' s mind could be put at ease . to conclude , we be all in favour of give each child the good start in life . we have a proud record , we make great progress , and we wish all the government all the good , but we worry that they be too often miss the wood for the tree . I call Chair of the Education Committee . give every child the good possible start in life should be a drive mission of every Government . investment in the early year and in a high - quality education for every child deliver among the high return of any area of public spending ; they be literally build the foundation of a child ' s life . government who get policy right in these area reap benefit in health and wellbeing , in economic growth and in low crisis - relate cost . the previous Labour Government make huge stride in this area . the longitudinal study now confirm that child who live close to a Sure Start centre do well in their gcse , and that hospitalisation of child be reduce and so be the need for specialist support in education . but a year ago this Government inherit the legacy of a previous Government who have not prioritise the need of child for 14 year . sure Start have be largely dismantle and school and further education budget cut , early year funding have not keep pace with inflation , key service like health visit and midwifery be scale back , and SEND provision and CAMHS — child and adolescent mental health service — be stretch to breaking point , with increase number of child in the care system , who be all too often be fail . our child have be buffet by the multiple blow of austerity , Brexit , the covid - 19 pandemic and the Liz Truss mini - budget bear down on public service that support child , young people and their family , result in more of childhood be leave to chance , with exist disadvantage and barrier to opportunity remain in place and be allow to perpetuate . the Education Committee recently publish our report on child ' s social care . child ' s social care be a good place to start think about this Government ' s opportunity mission , because it be where some of the most egregious barrier can be find — for the child whose family need the most support , those whose life be scar by abuse or neglect , and those for whom the state have both the grave responsibility and a huge opportunity to make a difference . the independent review of child ' s social care commission by the previous Government describe the system they preside over as in need of a " total reset " . spend on early help and support service — the preventive , nurture support deliver by sure Start centre , health visitor , community nurse and early year practitioner — have plummet , while spend on crisis intervention , include out - of - area residential placement often at great cost , have spiral . the number of child enter the care system have be rise , and perhaps most telling of all be that the outcome for care - experienced people be absolutely dire . this failure be so significant that , if the Government be serious about tackle homelessness and about tackle the crisis in the criminal justice system , they must turn their attention to the plight of care - experienced people , who be so vastly over - represent in both those population . they be far less likely to be in education , employment or training than their peer , and far more likely to have poor mental health . before come to the Chamber , I attend a meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on care - experience child and young people , where I learn that , in the 2023 - 24 , over 15 , 000 child in care move home , which be 34 % , and nearly 5 , 500 in care move school , which be 12 % . do the hon . member agree with I that , as part of the Government ' s strategy , we need to support child in care and minimise the disruption to their life that we can control ? I thank the hon . member very much for his intervention , and our report , which we publish last week , say exactly that . we have a system of child ' s social care that be under so much pressure that it all too often fail to put child at the centre of the service that be suppose to be deliver to give they more stability and security in life , and many thing about that system urgently need to change . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to invest in Best Start family hub , provide well early help and support service in more area of the country . we need investment that can tip the balance over time from crisis spending to spend on more preventive service that can deliver genuinely good outcome for child . our Committee ' s report , which I be proud to launch last week , point to some of the further step that be need , include create a national offer for care leaver , improve mental health support for look - after child and address the practical barrier , such as housing , that currently prevent the effective recruitment of foster carer . on early year , the Government inherit the previous Administration ' s commitment to expand funded hour of childcare , predominantly for work parent . this be a very challenging commitment to deliver . we know that quality early year education have the most potential to break down barrier to opportunity , yet the previous Government ' s approach be design to deliver more hour of care , without any specific focus on quality . the early year sector be fragile and fragmented , and provider continue to close . the expansion of school - base nursery be a very welcome first step , but there be undoubtedly a tension between a funding system design to support work parent and the early year sector ' s ability to reduce the impact of disadvantage for the poor child . the Government must address this tension in the forthcoming child poverty strategy . our Committee ' s second big inquiry be on the system of support for child with special educational need and disability . the SEND system be the single big crisis in the whole of the education system , routinely let down child and family , put professional work with child in an impossible position , and drive more than half of local education authority to the edge of bankruptcy . child with SEND should be able to thrive in education , and education should equip they well for the next stage of life , yet for far too many child , the failure of the SEND system result in absence from school , poor mental health and low attainment . there have be many rumour about what the Government may do to reform the SEND system , and I must say that these rumour be really unhelpful and traumatise for family who already have far too much to contend with . my Committee will report after the summer recess , but I be clear that the Government should be set out a clear process and plan for SEND reform , and that any reform must engage parent and professional and ensure clear and effective accountability mechanism . I think the Government be right to start with increase the inclusivity of mainstream school , but if they be to do that effectively , there must be proper investment to resource mainstream school to become more inclusive , with clear definition of what an inclusive school be and strong accountability . finally , a priority that run through all these issue be tackle child poverty , which rise to shamefully high level under the last Government and be perhaps the big barrier to opportunity of they all . I be delighted that the Government have announce an expansion of the eligibility criterion for free school meal to include all child whose family receive universal credit . as a local councillor in Southwark , I be proud when we introduce universal free school meal for primary child in 2010 , and over many year we have see the benefit of provide child with a nutritious hot meal . universal free breakfast club will also make a big difference . hungry child can not learn , so together these measure will ensure that no child have to start the school day hungry , and that the child who need it most get a nutritious hot meal at lunch time . they will boost learn while also ease cost for parent . however , our Committee have recommend that the Government implement auto - enrolment , so that every child eligible to receive the new expand free school meal offer receive it automatically and no child miss out . one of the driver of child poverty that have come through in my casework be the Child Maintenance Service ' s lack of enforcement power to hold to account parent who refuse their duty . do the hon . member agree with I that great enforcement power and great scrutiny of the Child Maintenance Service be essential for reduce child poverty ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . over my 10 year in this place , I have see how it have become hard and hard for family to get resource and accountability out of the Child Maintenance Service . I agree that there be further work to do in that space , and I be sure the Government be similarly aware of the challenge . I thank the hon . member for give way , especially as she be make such a powerful speech . yesterday , I go to an event with Health Equals , which have show that where a child be bear can lead to a 16 - year discrepancy in life expectancy due to poverty . do she agree that some form of legally bind poverty reduction target scheme could be put in place , as in Scotland , so that we can measure our progress ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and it be devastating to hear about those disparity across the country . recently , I be at a secondary school in a very deprived area of my constituency , and a teacher tell I that she notice at an event for those from across the whole of her academy trust that her child be small than child who go to school in more affluent area of the country . that be an intolerable disgrace . we expect the Government ' s child poverty strategy to be ambitious and far reaching , and if it be to do so , it must have clear target and there must be clear accountability in the strategy . I look forward to its publication , and my Committee , along with the Work and Pensions Committee , will play our part in scrutinise that important piece of work . I be hearten to see this Government put child and young people at the heart of their priority after 14 year during which they be an afterthought . there be much more to do , and my Committee will continue to play our part by scrutinise the Government and make evidence - base recommendation . I want to see a clear vision for child and young people with real ambition for every child , and a plan for all part of our education and care system , so that we can start to see the promise , in this Government ' s agenda , of transformed life and life chance be deliver in every part of our country . Mr Jogee , be you now finally comfortable in the Chamber ? before , you want to swap . [ interruption . ] marvellous . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome this opportunity to talk about give every child the good start in life . I suspect there be not many people in this Chamber who would disagree that every child , no matter their background or need , deserve the very good start in life . it be our duty as elect representative and policymaker to ensure that parent and carer have access to the help and support they need to ensure that every child get that good start in life . the Best Start family hub announce last week be very welcome and present a great opportunity for the Government to address the grow inequality across our education system that be leave behind by the previous Government . if resource properly , the Best Start family hub expansion could help to achieve many of the thing that we on the liberal Democrat Benches have be call for , include : the early identification of special educational need and disability ; contact time with mental health practitioner ; and access to nutritional advice . however , the Government ' s ambitious aim must be match with effective delivery . child and family can not afford for the Government to get this wrong , after many year under the Conservatives when early year provision really start to disintegrate . the strategy state that " high - quality early education and childcare boost child ' s life chance and enable parent to work " . I warmly welcome plan to invest in training and qualification to raise the skill level of the early year workforce , but I be afraid that the Government ' s rhetoric do not quite meet the reality on the ground . the funding promise by the Conservative Government for their 30 hour childcare proposal fall far short of what it actually cost to deliver that provision , and I be afraid that Labour ' s current proposal be also insufficient for nursery . labour ' s ill - advise national insurance hike have not only hamper economic growth , but put hundred of charitable and private nursery at risk of collapse . indeed , the Early Years Alliance report that nearly one third of provider be at risk of permanent closure in the next year , and that four in 10 would reduce the number of funded place for three and four - year - old . when couple with damage new guidance to local authority on funding agreement , the Government risk expand the childcare desert leave behind by the Conservative Government . what be the point of expand early year entitlement for child if parent be not able to access they because provider be simply unable to fulfil they ? with the expansion of childcare provision , keep our child safe be paramount . I welcome confirmation last week that the frequency of ofsted inspection of early year setting will increase and that work be be do to develop an effective approach to group inspection . however , as the Minister know from some of our conversation , if we be to prevent tragedy , such as the case of baby Gigi Meehan in Cheadle and the recent shocking case in my own constituency that last month see a nursery worker convict of 21 count of child cruelty at Twickenham Green nursery , Ministers must go far and they must go fast . the early year foundation framework urgently need to be strengthen , and well guidance need to be put in place for how we keep baby in particular safe in early year setting . that be particularly important as we see the expansion of childcare provision for the under - twos . I hope we will see clear guidance on safe sleep practice , but also on the use of CCTV , which prove critical in the case I cite , and on the regular review of that CCTV footage . the strategy point to a " golden thread of evidence - inform practice " , so I hope the Minister tell we whether she will work with health authority and expert charity to co - ordinate national safe sleep standard for use in early year setting . we must ensure that that go hand in hand with multi - agency safeguarding training . give child the good start in the early year also mean give parent genuine choice on whether to spend more time at home or go back to work full time . I be immensely proud that it be the Liberal Democrats in Government who introduce share parental leave — yet , year later , take - up remain far too low because of low rate of statutory maternity and paternity pay , and share parental leave pay . I be aware that the Government have start their review into parental leave and pay , which I warmly welcome . the Liberal Democrats have long call for statutory maternity and share parental pay to be double to £ 350 a week , and for father to be entitle to a month of paternity leave , as well as a " use it or lose it " month of share parental leave , because we know just how valuable the first month of a child ' s life be and the importance of the involvement of both parent . I hope the Minister and his colleague in the Department for Business and Trade will heed our call . I also want to press he again on the strong economic and moral case for grant statutory pay leave for kinship carer , so many of whom be force out of work when they take on caring responsibility to provide a safe and stable home for child . we must acknowledge that despite all effort , some child simply will not get the good start in life due to unimaginable trauma , which can mean that the only safe course of action be to separate they from their birth parent . it therefore fall to we collectively as corporate parent to ensure those child get the very good second chance at life . family hub must be more than signpost service ; they should offer trusted relationship and trauma - inform practice embed within staff training and service design as part of the Government ' s commitment to rebuild trust with family . continue on that theme , the adoption and special guardianship support fund , as many member will know , provide funding for vital therapy to help the most vulnerable child to process their trauma . these session be not easy , with some child take month to even step through the door , but it be vital that these child be give the space , time and support to relearn how to trust adult . slash the funding for each child from £ 5 , 000 to £ 3 , 000 mean that many will stop their therapy session just as they get through the door and start to make progress . not only be this incredibly frustrating for the adoptive parent and special guardian ; it sadly compound the child ' s tragic belief that all adult do be let they down . both the Minister who open the debate and the Minister for Children and Families , who be sit next to he on the Front Bench , know that I be determined to see the full £ 5 , 000 grant funding restore for every eligible child . I press the Minister again to go to the Treasury and demand the additional fund to meet the growth in demand for those grant so that the next generation can believe that there be adult , and even government , worth trust . I have point out previously that halve the Department ' s advertising and consultancy budget would enable the ASGSF to grow by 50 % from £ 50 million to £ 75 million to meet that additional demand . short of that , I urge the Minister not to leave parent , carer and child in limbo again by wait until the last minute to announce whether the fund will continue next year . instead , I hope that Ministers will commit to announce the future of the fund by September , now that we have have the spending review , so that family and provider can plan and have certainty for the future . finally , parent and carer have for far too long be subject to an adversarial special educational need system where they have have to fight tooth and nail to secure their child ' s right to learn . a good education help child to discover who they be and what they be good at , but sadly far too many have be deny the help they need . as the Chair of the Education Committee have point out , the rumour that have be swirl have leave many family up and down the country deeply concerned . we meet a number of those family in Parliament yesterday , and I know that the inboxe of member across the House have be fill with worried email on this matter . it be clear the system be break and need reform , but any change must have child at its heart , not a Treasury drive for saving by remove right in a vacuum . I be glad to see that inclusive practice for child with SEND will be embed in early year teaching ; early identification be crucial in ensure that child can get the help they need when they need it . however , it remain to be see just what that help will be . the Government have fail continuously to communicate with those directly affect by their decision , but they have the chance today to tell parent whether education , health and care plan will be remove from any child . I reiterate what my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) say to the Prime Minister last week , and what my right hon . friend and I say in the letter we send to the Education Secretary and the Prime Minister , in which we set out the Liberal Democrats ' five principle for SEND reform . we be very happy to work constructively with the Government on that reform , because we know that all these child — whether they have special need and whatever their background — deserve the very good start in life . every child , no matter where they be bear , deserve the very good start in life . the first 1 , 000 day of a child ' s life be absolutely critical , pave the way for the rest of their life . that time have a direct impact on how they perform in school and in their work life ; it affect all their life stage . my first job after leave Keele University 20 year ago be work for a local Sure Start centre in Stoke - on - Trent . I love work there because I see at first hand how those centre completely transform the life of family across Stoke - on - Trent and Kidsgrove . that be why the plan of this Labour Government to roll out family hub across the country fill I with complete pride . twenty year ago , so many parent be give the help hand that they need to give their kid a well start in life , and it be so devastating for I personally to watch how conservative cut absolutely decimate our local centre . the Conservative - lead city council in Stoke - on - Trent gutte our centre by remove our most crucial preventive service . the council claim that it do not actually close any centre , which be partly true , but it take out all the service that operate from the centre , effectively leave empty building with no offer to the family in my local community . long before I be involve in politic , it seem obvious to I that those cut would result in more kid live in poverty and more live in care . I go to meeting — not when I be involve in politic , but when I work for the ymca — and when I raise concern , they be laugh off by conservative and independent councillor who say that they know well . but the fact on the ground say different . stoke - on - Trent sadly now have among the high number of child live in care anywhere in the country , and more child be live in poverty . this be completely avoidable ; it be a political choice that the Conservatives make . as the child impact by the cut grow old , they be confront by a new hurdle . they be hit by the massive cut to youth service in our local community . conservative austerity lead to over 90 % of the money be take away from our local council , which fund the youth club — the youth club that I go to when I be young , where I meet friend and learn new hobby . those club be then no long available for young people in our local community . rise — rise — I give way to my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . I be very grateful to my constituency neighbour for give way to I over my other constituency neighbour . my hon . friend make an important point about the vital role that county council and local authority can play in provide service to my constituent , his and those of my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) . will he join I in call on Staffordshire county council to get its act together and deliver the service that our young people deserve ? I completely agree with that sentiment . my hon . friend and I often discuss this issue , so I welcome his comment . I be grateful to see so many Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent mps in the Chamber today . I be especially pleased to be here today , because I have a group of brilliant young people from my own constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village participate in my first ever summer school ; they be up in the Public Gallery . they have be learn about how Parliament work and how they can use their voice to make change happen . do my hon . friend agree that if we be serious about give every child the good start in life , we need to ensure that that include youth service and comprehensive citizenship education , where they be able to see the difference they can make ? I welcome and echo my hon . friend ' s comment . I have support citizenship over many year — certainly from when I work for the ymca locally . the conservative unforgivably turn their back on our child and young people when they need our support the most . I be so proud to be a Labour MP , work alongside a Labour Government who be firmly on the side of child , young people and their family . we be begin to see the righting of the past 14 year of wrong . I have be to Milton and Greenways primary academy in my constituency and visit the breakfast club that be be roll out . I have see at first hand how the kid arrive tired and hungry , but then they start their day ready to learn and full of energy — no long with hungry belly . I be proud , too , that this Labour Government be extend free school meal . that will feed more than 6 , 700 child across Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove from next year . be well fed mean that child learn well , and it be also a critical step in lift kid out of poverty — something on which I have focus my whole working career . I be so pleased also that Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove have one of the very first school - base nursery , which be be roll out at the brilliant Smallthorne primary academy . this will not only ease pressure on hard - work family who need a help hand ; it will help kid to prepare for the transition to school , and will help to close the development gap early on . this be exactly what a Labour Government be all about : support our kid and young people to thrive . I be proud to be play my role in help to transform the life of family across my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove . I will now announce the result of today ' s defer Divisions . on the draft Enterprise Act 2002 ( Definition of Newspaper ) Order 2025 , the Ayes be 334 and the Noes be 54 , so the Ayes have it . on the Enterprise Act 2002 ( Amendment of Section 58 Considerations ) Order 2025 ( S . I . 2025 , no . 737 ) , the Ayes be 333 and the Noes be 54 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) ; it have be a while since I have hear the word " stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke " , which use to be bellow out by our former hon . friend and his predecessor Jonathan Gullis , who be a great school Minister — briefly — in a previous Government . I pay tribute to he and his memory — much lamented . I also pay tribute to David Johnston , another former Member , who be child ' s Minister in the last Government and be responsible for many of the important reform that my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) mention . I welcome this debate on what I think be a cross - party agenda . I recognise much of what the Minister say about the importance of early year and the sort of intervention that the Government be talk about . I welcome the impending child poverty strategy , which be an important step forward for we . I want to make a simple and straightforward point . I have hear a lot in this afternoon ' s debate about the importance of investment and support for the different professional who support child and family . that be all absolutely right , and I agree that that be important . nevertheless , surely the most important resource available to we to support child and young people be their family and the community that they grow up in . I implore the Government to think very seriously in prepare their strategy to support the condition for success in childhood , which be about not simply the public sector professional , agency and institution that be available but the strength of the informal social institution that child and young people grow up in . I welcome the Minister ' s mention of the importance of social investment , philanthropy and civil society in provide support for child and young people . this be a big boast , but I can claim some credit for the announcement that the Chancellor make on Monday . she happen to be at a charity call AllChild in Wigan , which I claim credit for have found — although that be not on the press release , I note . the charity begin life as the West London Zone , which support child and young people and which I start back in the early 2010 , have visit the Harlem Children ' s Zone in New York with the then Secretary of State Michael Gove . the Harlem Children ' s Zone be a tremendously successful project aim at much of the agenda that we be debate this afternoon , include early identification of child at risk , the provision of intensive support for those child and their family on a community basis , and a place - base model for support for child and family in disadvantage . we set up the West London Zone with the help of significant philanthropy from Paul Marshall , note philanthropist and founder of the Ark school chain , who say that we should start one here . we do it on a slightly different model from Harlem ' s , which be a monolithic , single entity that provide all service for child and young people . the model we introduce in West London and be now be expand across the country under the banner of AllChild . I pay tribute to the AllChild team , include Louisa Mitchell , who I get in early to deliver the project , because I would not have be very good at actually run it . louisa have be a genius , and she be still run it now . this go to the point I be try to make : what Louisa do be recognise that in our community there be an enormous array of really amazing resource in the form of local project — large and small , formal and informal — that can help with the great task of bring up a child as a village should . the mission of the project be to identify in school — with the help of teacher and , crucially , by use the datum available on attainment and attendance — those child who be likely to struggle later . then it be about ensure that they get the support that they need , and very much on a personalised basis . that support should come not just from the statutory system around the school — because that will never be adequate for the range of need and different challenge that a population of child will have — but draw on the resource of the community . we start in west London , which obviously have lot of pocket of wealth but significant pocket of disadvantage as well . even in those disadvantaged place , and certainly across the country — the project be work in Wigan and elsewhere now — we see tremendous institution that can support child and young people . the challenge be to do so in a co - ordinate way . there be a huge opportunity not just to look to the state , school , local authority or health — even though bring all those agency together around child be important — but to think about the real resource we have , which be in our community . we should put in place real support and resource for those foundation , whether faith group , professional body of all sort or community organisation . do the hon . Member agree that the foundation of early year start in the home with parent and the mother ' s antenatal and post - natal health , and that the Government should include in their strategy a review of current service and what support can be provide to improve child ' s outcome ? it be funny : I often find myself in agreement with the hon . Gentleman , which be great , and not what I expect when he be elect to this place . I be about to come to my final point : the importance of family life . I do not know to what extent that really be on the Government ' s agenda when it come to the child poverty strategy . there will obviously be lot of talk of family , maternal health and so on , but the crucial determinant of success for child be the quality of the relationship they grow up in . we know that from all the research do into child ' s brain development . human being be unique among mammal in that we emerge very unformed : our brain be really blank as we emerge from the womb . the strength and health of our brain and our future be lay down in those early year by the quality of the relationship we grow up with and experience . I know the Government recognise that because of their emphasis on early year , but the quality of the relationship in the home matter so much . I really hope that the Government will be brave enough to recognise the value of stability in the home and the value of two - parent family as a source of real strength . they be a protective factor and a predictor of success for child and young people . we should , of course , do all we can to support single - parent family — they be crucial and necessary and do amazing work , and we should give they all our support — but to tackle child poverty we must do more to support family formation and family stability . that mean recognise the household as a unit . we be way too individualistic in our approach to public policy . we need to think about family health and family strength , and that mean support couple . I welcome what the Government be try to do , and I hope that there will be recognition of the importance of community and family life in the child poverty strategy . before I come into politic I spend about 20 year work in and with community , a significant part of which be in early year , so this area be of real importance to I . through the sure Start programme , I help set up a child ' s centre and see firsthand how early year provision lift up family , support parent and give child the solid foundation they need . the centre that I work with offer not just childcare but an essential early year service hub to benefit family . we know , and the evidence show , that the impact of high - quality early year support last a lifetime . the early year of a child ' s life be critical . the nurturing and love receive in those early day can shape their chance for the future in school , in work and in life . since 2010 , however , we have see a hollowing out of early year support . sure Start centre close in their hundred and early year intervention service be cut to the bone . our early year provision lose a significant amount of funding , as do many other in Sheffield , with £ 3 million of cut city - wide . I become involved in the campaign to save early year , which argue that fail to invest in those service lead to our pay a price in school achievement gap , health inequality and lose potential . we argue back then , when the cut be make , that the cost of late intervention to community and public service be high than the cost of get it right from the start . I therefore welcome the Government ' s recent initiative , such as the expansion of free school meal , free breakfast club and the recent £ 500 million investment into Best Start family hub . it be important that we catch the problem early on , before they escalate , with evidence show that when we invest early on , we reduce the long - term cost for the NHS , social care and the criminal justice system . it be important , however , that we see additional investment in exist family hub , which have work tirelessly to provide vital early year support despite year of funding cut . it be also important that we keep the independent , voluntary and community sector involve in discussion , as many participate in the delivery of early year service and family hub in their community . invest in family hub be not just good policy ; it be the right thing to do . if we want to tackle child poverty and ensure every child can thrive , that be where we start , with family right at the heart of our community . the good start in life mean a good education ; good education mean a good school ; and a good school necessarily mean a learn environment in which child can thrive . Tiverton high school in my constituency should not be an exception to that , but because of the decision of successive government , it have be . I will focus my remark on the plight of that school , and perhaps it will serve as a microcosm and an example to which other member may well relate in the community they represent . upon visit Tiverton , one could be forgive for be suck into a sense of complacency , with the roll hill and period building in and around the area . yet hide there be serious pocket of deprivation , economic and social poverty , and we can feel it . Tiverton high school have be promise a rebuild since 1999 — yes , that is 26 year ago — but time after time , successive administration of different stripe do not deliver , renege on those promise . since my arrival in this place , I have push relentlessly to secure a concrete commitment on Tiverton high school ' s rebuild . indeed , I be fill with optimism because in November last year , the Department for Education confirm Tiverton high school ' s inclusion in the school rebuilding programme , with work set to commence as early as April 2025 . finally , it seem that the Government have grasp the nettle . finally , they have heed the call , for they have grow impossible to ignore . it be go to happen , I think ; perhaps this be it . the long - stand promise of a rebuild , which dissipate each time , have mean that Tivvy high , as we affectionately call it , see routine maintenance and refurbishment fall by the wayside . a culture of " keep calm and carry on " set in , with the anticipation that the cavalry , or the digger , would arrive to get the rebuild underway . the 1970 sport hall be riddle with asbestos , render it entirely unusable for many month of the year and deprive student of essential physical education . to make matter bad , the school be build on a floodplain , which be a crucial detail that be blithely skip over and which be not acknowledge in the pre - assessment conduct by the Department for Education . the Environment Agency have also report the regular flooding of multiple school building to be a risk to life , particularly if someone be under five foot . that be utter madness in 21st - century Britain . the school be dilapidate and not an environment that be at all conducive to learn . instead , such an environment lead pupil to feel unnurture , throw on to society ' s scrapheap and simply forget about . what kind of message do that send to child ? if the Department for Education row back on the promise of a rebuild , it would be not just a political misstep but would see a whole community shun again . it would be a cruel volte - face . to be clear , we be talk about the hope of a community that have be string along for a quarter of a century be reduce to a line in a ministerial briefing . they say that politics be the art of the grey , and I will not walk away empty hand on this . I be absolutely sure of that . after all these year , the community need this pledge to be honour . it be a privilege to contribute to today ' s debate on give child the good possible start in life . as a father , this be an issue that matter deeply to I , not just politically but personally . we all understand that our experience in our first year shape the adult we go on to become . the memory form in those formative year , whether of joy and love or challenge and neglect , stay with we for life . they shape our confidence , our relationship and our view of the world . I be sure all of we in this Chamber have have the privilege of go into school and speak to child about what they want to be when they grow up . what a privilege that be , and what a responsibility it give we to ensure that today ' s child can dream just as big as we do , and feel just as support in reach those dream . that be why it be vital that we do everything we can to make sure that every child , no matter their background , get the same sense of possibility , the same support and the same opportunity to thrive . I know that I want that for my child . I be proud that this Labour Government be commit to roll out good Start family hub . these hub , along with the child ' s centre that already exist such as the fantastic West Chadsmoor family centre in my constituency , provide vital wraparound support for family , offer everything from early education to parenting advice and mental health support . the announcement early this year of a new school - base nursery at Heath Hayes primary academy be another proud example of how we be support child in my town and village . as an adoptive parent and foster carer , I want to take a moment to speak directly to the need of some of our most vulnerable child — those who grow up in the care system . in Staffordshire alone , the county council support over 5 , 000 child , of whom 1 , 345 be in care . because of the sadly increase demand , the council have face dramatic financial pressure , overspend by nearly £ 3 . 8 million , largely as a result of the cost of place child in care . these figure underline the scale of the demand and the commitment need to meet it . I be an evangelical advocate for foster to adopt , also know as early permanence , and I should declare an interest because that be the path that I have take in adopt my child . foster to adopt allow vulnerable child to move into stable , love home as soon as possible , avoid the uncertainty and disruption that all too often characterise life in care . I would like to put on record my personal thank to the Minister for Children and Families , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , for also be a strong advocate on this , and for give her time to I today to discuss early permanence and support for fostered and adopt child . evidence show that early intervention , especially when speech and language support be provide before six month old , lead to last gain in expressive vocabulary , social and emotional development , and communication outcome . enrolment in support before three month , for example , deliver measurable gain in vocabulary at 18 to 24 month and even help to close gap with hear peer by age five . child in care be just as full of potential as any other child , but they need we in this place to fight a little hard for they , to make sure that they too , when ask " what do you want to be when you grow up ? " , have the support they need around they to achieve whatever those dream might be . labour be deliver the big overhaul of legislation to protect child in a generation , because where other dither and kick political football , we on this side of the House will always act decisively to look after the most vulnerable . just before my hon . friend come to the end of his important remark , I be sure the whole House will want to thank he and his family for lead by example , not just by show care and compassion but by bring that life experience to this place . thank you . I really appreciate that from my hon . friend . I think that everybody who put themselves forward to be an adopter or a foster carer do so with a huge amount of compassion . it be a journey that be often fraught with difficulty , and it certainly present its challenge , but I think that all parenthood do . sometimes we need to recognise that parent , no matter how they come to their parenthood , be do an awful lot to make sure that the next generation thrive — which be , after all , why we be all here today . this government be put in place massive support for kinship carer , with £ 44 million invest in kinship and foster carer and a new kinship allowance be trialle to provide financial stability to those step up to care for child in their wide family . our national kinship care ambassador be work with local authority to improve support and permanence pathway , and that be very welcome . together with the child poverty taskforce , which will report in the autumn , and the expansion of free school meal , these measure underpin our mission to lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty , because no child should go hungry into their classroom . by invest in family hub where family in Cannock Chase and beyond can access wraparound support , by roll out early intervention programme that build child ' s language and confidence from birth , and by prioritise early permanence and foster to adopt for child in the care system , we can deliver on the promise of give every child — not just some — the good possible start in life and the opportunity to make the most of their potential . every child deserve love , stability and opportunity . whether they dream of become a doctor , a teacher or even a Member of Parliament , it be our duty to ensure that those dream be possible and to allow every child to make the most of their gift and potential . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this crucial debate . I welcome the announcement by the Secretary of State and the Government on the investment and the work they plan to do . we all agree that every child in this country — regardless of postcode , parent or circumstance — deserve the good possible start in life . that be not just a slogan ; it be a moral duty and a political choice . it be the foundation for a fairer , strong and more prosperous Britain , and a critical contributor to the Government ' s growth mission . I be extremely grateful for the opportunity afford to I when I be a child . I be the eld of six . my mother be a homemaker , and my father work in a factory . he then fall ill and be support by the state . I have free school meal and free school uniform , and I have the opportunity to go to university without incur ten of thousand of pound of debt . I wish for those same opportunity and more for every single child in our country go forward . yet today , far too many child be be fail by a system that be stretch , fragmented and underfunded . we be the sixth large economy in the world , and yet we have rise child poverty , overstretch early year service , and a widen attainment and life expectancy gap between the rich and the rest . it do not have to be this way — we can and must do well . if we be serious about give every child the good start in life , we must start before birth . a child ' s life chance be shape long before they take their first breath . the health and wellbeing of pregnant woman and new mother be critical for not only safe delivery , but the emotional and physical development of the child . yet , across the UK today , midwife staffing level be dangerously low . prenatal and post - natal support be patchy and inconsistent . there be real maternity service inequality for ethnic minority and in area of deprivation , and maternal and health need be too often ignore . I urge the Government to take a holistic view and review the current state of maternity service across our nation and region , and to put in the require investment to equalise those service and make they fit for purpose . this be not just a health issue ; it be a social justice issue because the poor woman , who be often at the high risk of complication , be least likely to receive the care they need . investment in maternal care be investment in strong family , healthy baby and a well future for all . to continue where life continue — the early year — the science be clear , as have be mention by right hon . and hon . member . a child ' s brain develop fast from birth to five than at any other time . these year shape everything from health and happiness to educational success and economic opportunity , so why be it that access to high - quality early education be still a postcode lottery ? why be childcare worker , who do some of the most vital work in our society , pay less than supermarket staff ? we must deliver universal high - quality childcare from the end of parental leave to the start of school , and I welcome the Government ' s announcement and investment in this area . I fully support the Government ' s plan to invest in the early year workforce , and we must make quality , not just quantity , a measure of success . family be the first and foremost influence on a child ' s life , yet support for family have be dismantle over the past 14 year . health visitor have be cut and sure Start centre close , and too many parent have be leave to struggle alone . I welcome the Government ' s plan to rebuild — rebuild family hub in every community , rebuild our health visit service , and rebuild trust by give parent real support and not judgment . two of the big determinant of how well a child will do in life be where they be bear and the income of their family . across the UK , child poverty have be rise . accord to the Child Poverty Action Group , 1 . 6 million child be now affect by the two - child benefit cap . that mean 1 . 6 million child whose future be be limit by a Government policy — not by anything they have do , or by anything their family have fail to do , but by a decision to deny they the support that they need to grow and thrive . in Dewsbury and Batley , over 11 , 800 child be grow up in poverty . More than half of they live in work household . those family be do everything ask of they — go to work and try to save — but they be still unable to meet their child ' s basic need . one parent tell I : " we live in a two - bed flat with three child . I have to cycle to work because travel cost would push we into deficit . an extra £ 50 a week would make a huge difference . " that £ 50 could mean a warm coat , a school trip or proper meal for a week . it could mean a child arrive in the classroom ready to learn , not hungry and anxious . what kind of country do that to its child ? we say that we want every child to have the good start in life , but how can that happen if policy deliberately push they into hardship from birth ? reduce child poverty be not just a moral obligation ; it be a smart investment . it lead to well health , well educational outcome , high future earning and increase tax revenue . child be not a cost to be cap ; they be our country ' s future . we must also tackle the mental health crisis affect our child and young people . CAMHS , as we know and have hear many time in this Chamber , be overwhelmed . child be wait month , sometimes year , for help . we need in - school mental health support team in every school . we need early intervention , not crisis firefighting . we must train staff across education and early year in trauma - inform practice . let I move on to education . I be bless with the opportunity to go to school and can not remember ever go on an empty stomach . the work that my father do , and the support that the government provide in welfare and benefit , ensure that I do not go to school hungry . I have free school meal and come home to a warm meal . that , I be sure , make a huge difference to what I have be able to achieve in life . education should be the great leveller , but in reality the attainment gap between disadvantaged child and their peer be grow , not shrink . we must strengthen the pupil premium , restore funding for early literacy and numeracy , and , yes , expand free school meal to every primary pupil , because no child should learn on an empty stomach . I welcome the Government ' s announcement on provide free school meal to every child whose family be on universal credit , but I gently encourage they to consider expand that benefit so that it be universal . this be not about short - term fix ; it be about long - term nation building and solution . it be about a country that invest in its young , support its mother and refuse to accept inequality as inevitable . when we give child the good start in life , we all benefit , through low crime , well health , strong community and a more productive economy , so let we rise to the moment . let we stop manage decline and start invest in potential . let we give every child , in every corner of this country , the good start in life . I commend the Government for their mission to give every child the good start in life . it be critical that all child , no matter where they be bear , have every opportunity to achieve their potential . I must mention at this point the number of Staffordshire mp who be here for the debate , which just show the importance of this topic to the child in our county . inspire by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , do my hon . friend agree that team staffordshire hunt as a pack ? my hon . friend be right that we hunt as a pack : when the three Stokie mp get together with our Staffordshire colleague , we make a formidable bunch , and I be very proud to be part of the team . I be incredibly proud to work for a Labour Government who be break down the barrier to opportunity , tackle child poverty and improve early year development through our plan for change . this be certainly a nationwide issue , but I wish to stress the critical importance of this mission in Stoke - on - Trent South and Stoke - on - Trent more widely . our child be neglect time and again by the previous Government , and we now have some of the bad outcome for childhood development , health and wellbee in the country . before I list the statistic , I want to point out that Stoke - on - Trent be also the good place in the country to live and that the people be fantastic . we have be let down and that be by no mean the fault of the wonderful people of Stoke - on - Trent . my hon . friend be make an important point . my constituency of Stratford and Bow , in east London , be recently score second well in the country on the Sutton Trust opportunity index , for opportunity for child to advance in life , and the neighbouring constituency , East Ham , score top . London have severe inequality in give child the good start in life , but we also have opportunity . it be important that kid in Staffordshire get the same opportunity . that be why this Government be work to spread that opportunity far and wide , so that they all have the good possible start in life . I commend my hon . friend and her neighbour for those wonderful outcome , although I be sure she still have issue in her constituency that we need to battle against . as I have say in the Chamber before , child poverty in some part of my constituency be as high as 76 % . in 2022 - 23 , 13 child in every classroom of 30 be live in poverty in Stoke . stoke - on - Trent have the high rate of infant mortality in the country , and between 2019 and 2021 , baby bear in Stoke be nearly twice as likely to die before their first birthday than the national average . in addition , Stoke - on - Trent have the high number of child in care per head of population in England , and our child face successive delay in early year development . in 2023 , Stoke - on - Trent be in the bottom 10 of all english local authority for the number of child with the " expect " level of literacy , communication and language , and numeracy skill by early year foundation stage . I know that these figure will shock many , but stoke - on - Trent must be a priority region for tackle child poverty and our related mission . there be child in my constituency who start school unable to speak , use the toilet or brush their tooth , and there be child in our high school who be still learn phonic , which should have be teach in primary school , as they be struggle with such severe delay in their development . infant mortality , a topic that be very close to my heart , be explicitly link to socioeconomic inequality and persistent inequality in health . as have be mention , the first thousand day of a child ' s life be the most important . what happen during those day can , in many case , predict a child ' s entire life course . it be devastating that for so many child in our city their first few year be mark by deprivation , poor quality housing and incredibly low living standard . Labour Stoke - on - Trent city council be do excellent work to support our child . it have make major improvement to child ' s social care service , focus on early help and new front - door arrangement , and the family matter programme be a multi - agency programme deliver prevention and support service to give our child the very good start in life . local organisation , like Thrive at five and Stoke speak out , have also run incredible programme to facilitate a thriving early year network in Stoke - on - Trent to improve child ' s early development . however , our city council and our local service have have to work incredibly hard against a backdrop of successive cut over the past 14 to 15 year that have decimate so many service and force many to close altogether . many of our holistic early intervention programme , where family could get advice , health visitor support family from pregnancy onwards , and staff could identify family in need and offer early support , have now close their door . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour for her brilliant speech . be not much of this issue about the history of our community ? these be industrial heartland that be let down , leave behind and forget for many , many year . we need not just join - up thinking as we address these result , from the early year right through the journey to high education and beyond , but join - up result . that be how we will be able to deliver for community in Newcastle - under - Lyme and Stoke - on - Trent and right across Staffordshire . my hon . Friend quite rightly point out the complexity and history of the issue that we face , which we need to solve with a holistic approach . in the absence of amazing service such as Sure Start , mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) , the predominant policy route have be to fund reactive service that reach family only at crisis point . not only be that incredibly costly , but it result in so many child with developmental delay or safeguard concern go unnoticed until it be far too late . early year service provide a lifeline to so many family ; in their absence , inequality have rise and our child have suffer . stoke ' s child deserve well . I be deeply grateful to the Minister , who be in her place and who have agree to have a meeting with I to discuss the difficult problem that we wish to solve . the Government be absolutely work hard to address those . as I say , I be incredibly pleased that this Government be expand the early year offer through the Best Start family hub model . I be so grateful that the Government have commit to far support the family hub in Normacot , which the community have fight so hard to save , but family in Meir also deserve a Best Start family hub . resident in Meir be proud of where they live , but they be aware of the challenge in their community , and they too deserve support . child in Meir would benefit hugely from a centre in their neighbourhood . we know what work . we know that high - quality early year education and support network for family can completely transform a child ' s life chance . we know that early intervention be far more effective and affordable than try to fix problem later down the line . we need policy that improve neonatal and post - natal health , provide parent with the knowledge and support to give their child the very good start and provide child with support to achieve their early learning and development goal . I be therefore so grateful for the expansion of early year support through the Best Start family hub and our target for early year development under the plan for change . this government will bring about much - need change for child across the country , and it be critical that that investment be receive in Stoke - on - Trent South . although the Minister for Early Education be not in his place , I congratulate he on his speech and thank he for all his work , particularly on get mental health support worker in our school . as the Member of Parliament for Redditch and the village , I see every day how vital the issue of child aspiration and opportunity be . I have see the powerful impact that early support and investment can make on a child ' s life , whether they be grow up in winyate , Woodrow , Batchley or Matchborough or in village such as Astwood Bank , Feckenham , Norton or Dodderhill . this week I have have the pleasure of meet Rhys Elliot , a young boy in Harvington who be await his GCSE result and have a clear aspiration and dream in his head of what he want to be . I have also see the other side , where child be hold back not because they lack the talent or ambition , but simply because they do not get the same start as other . why be it that in some school , child speak confidently about become doctor , lawyer or engineer , while in other they can not imagine a life outside the limit place around they ? this be not about ability : it be about opportunity , and opportunity start early . that be why I commend the Government on expand breakfast club , such as the one at St Stephen ' s in my constituency , which be make a real difference . have spend a morning with the child and parent , I truly appreciate the calm and nourishment that these club provide . they set child up for a positive start to their day and ease the pressure on hard - work family . that be why I also welcome the Government ' s plan to increase the number of child in my constituency who will receive free school meal . I be pleased that Redditch will receive central funding for the first time to roll out good Start family hub across my constituency . the hub will provide wide - range support for family , from parent advice to early development service , offer a vital lifeline for many . they be a true successor to the legacy of sure Start . when I listen to the Secretary of State talk about the roll - out early this week , I be strike that the Prime Minister come to my constituency on his final stop of the general election campaign . he give his speech in a Sure Start centre that have be abandon by the previous Government , in a constituency in one of the most socially and economically deprive area in the west midland that have be forget . I be delighted that this Government be take action to reverse 14 year of decline . I be also happy to see investment make a difference locally . at Matchborough first school academy , funding be be use to convert unused classroom into nursery space , provide high - quality early year place where they be most need . that be exactly the kind of practical , place - base solution that help to level the play field from the very start . my constituency have also see significant increase in SEN support for my county council — although there be so much more work to do in that area — and the benefit of mental health support worker enter our school . however , we must go much far . in my day , I be teach in a class of nearly 40 , in draughty temporary building . those day should be behind we , but because of disastrous decision such as the cancellation of the Building Schools for the Future programme , school such as Ridgeway secondary school be face the daunting challenge of have to raise million of pound to remain fit for purpose . I do not want to see that school — one of the most improved in the country — have tent and temporary building force on it . that be not level up ; it be let down our child . I want to say something very clearly : I have never meet a family in Redditch or the village who want an easy ride . I have only ever meet family who want a fair shot for their child , a level playing field , and the chance to give their kid the opportunity that they never have . that be why I find yesterday ' s debate on the two - child limit so troubling . the official opposition decide to make child a political wedge issue , condemn their parent for whatever reason or for whatever circumstance they might find themselves in , but that decision will only impact child . that be why I be so pleased that this week , we have see the announcement of the well future fund — a decision by this Government to invest in real , outcome - base delivery opportunity alongside the private sector , in order to lift child out of poverty . we can not talk about give every child the good start in life without confront the reality of poverty in all its form , include furniture poverty , which be something we do not talk nearly enough about . in my constituency , there be child who go to bed without a bed . some do not have a desk to do their homework on or a table to eat at , and some do not have a cooker with which their parent can cook a nutritious meal . despite work all the hour they possibly can , some parent still go without meal just to make end meet . in his brief speech , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) talk about family ; I would like to put on record that not all family contain two parent . family come in all different size , and we should be support all of they , regardless of whether it be two , one , three or four . this be not just about income — it be about dignity , stability and the very basic of a secure home environment , in which a child can sleep properly and study in peace . I could not agree more with my hon . friend ' s comment about furniture poverty . in Stoke - on - Trent , we have Emmaus — it be base in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) — which have a " bed for kid " project , because so many kid in Stoke - on - trent do not even have a bed to sleep in at night . it be important that the issue of furniture poverty be pick up in Government policy . I agree with my hon . friend — furniture poverty be a stain on a society that we have fail . I totally understand the right and responsibility of individual parent and family , but when we know there be a problem , we should deal with it . unfortunately , voluntary group have take on that challenge where the state have roll back support . when we have the financial capacity , we should throw everything we have at reduce the number of child in poverty , because this be about their dream . there can be no well investment than in the future of our child , and those of we who believe in social mobility and in the transformative power of education and aspiration must never sacrifice those principle on the altar of desperate attempt at political relevance . rightly , we often debate passionately in this place how life begin and how it end , but what about what happen in between ? what about the life that child be live now , those whose family be struggle to afford school shoe or skip meal to make end meet ? I be glad that this Government be take on those real challenge , and be refuse to adopt the Opposition ' s mantra of condemn parent for their choice or the circumstance they find themselves in . if we be serious about give every child the good start , we need more than warm word ; we need investment , compassion , and a commitment to early year as a national priority . I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who have make that commitment in our first 12 month in office , because those first day , month and year be those in which future be forge , and for which our responsibility as lawmaker and public servant be at its great . it be a genuine pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) . he and I have work together for the good part of a decade , and his commitment to see a real improvement in the life of the child he represent be commendable . we should all take a leaf out of his book . like many people in this place , I spend a lot of my time visit primary school . I meet the teacher , I be show around the classroom , and , be six foot four , I have to try not to take out a row of painting or some bunting that be hang across the room . I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend get to visit lot of primary school . during the debate I have hear about so many school all over the country . however , the people of Bidwell West , in my constituency , be still wait for a primary school . it be promise in plan and brochure when they be buy their new home more than a decade ago , but it still have not arrive . do my hon . friend agree that it be so important for council to work constructively with the Department for Education to ensure that these promise school finally open ? how could I not agree ? those facility in community be what turn they from housing estate into home , and turn the community into something special . at this point , I should declare my interest . I be a governor of a special educational need school in Stoke - on - Trent , and I chair the all - party parliamentary group on child ' s literacy , which , with the Minister ' s support , be run the national year of reading . I will get on to that later . when I visit primary school and talk to the young people in reception and year 1 class , and see those bright young face , full of vim and vigour and expectation about what kind of life may lie ahead of they , I think about the statistic , which , as be ably explain by my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , be quite stark . stoke - on - trent rank — or do rank — 142nd out of 151 for key stage 2 attainment . although I accept some of the point make by the shadow Minister about the national increase in achievement across certain part of the education sector , the last Government fail to reduce the attainment gap across the country , and there be still part of the country , like Stoke - on - Trent , where that gap have not close . city that be economically and socially challenge — I will not say " deprive " , because I do not like that word — have not see the improvement that have be see in other part of the country . as a result , there be generation of young people whose future have be essentially stunt because the opportunity available to they be hamper by the absence of the early education and investment that they should have receive , which mean that their later life attainment be also hamper . every time I speak to primary school teacher or headteacher , and even some in secondary school , the first thing they say to I be " it ' s tough . " they say that because , as be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , there be young people arrive at those school who be unable to hold a pen or a fork , or be unable to articulate what they be think and feel because their oracy simply be not good enough . that make communication in early year education almost impossible to achieve . child be arrive who be not appropriately potty - train , which mean that teaching staff be engage in a basic level of parenting . I thank my other constituency neighbour for give way . last week I hold a headteacher ' forum at a school in my constituency that my hon . friend know well for various reason . what be clear to I from that conversation — and I be grateful to all those who attend the forum — be that teacher be now undertake a journey from educate to social work . one share the story of a nine - year - old child who be not potty - train , which mean that the teacher be require to help with change and make the child clean and safe . the morale challenge that teacher face , couple with the challenge that my hon . friend have mention , illustrate the crisis that we face . that be why it be so important for the Minister ' s work to extend not only to Stoke - on - Trent , but to Newcastle - under - Lyme as well . when we have local government reorganisation , we will be one big happy family in north Staffordshire . whether it be Stoke - on - Trent or Newcastle - under - Lyme , we will get there . rise — no , I will not give way a second time . my hon . friend be correct , in that the teacher I speak to say that it be hard . they talk about the societal impact that be affect child , through no fault of those young people themselves — there be nothing they can do about it — and impede their ability . it be the teacher , and also the teaching assistant and support staff , who be have to do the social work . they be help parent to sort out access to benefit claim , and in some case they be help to arrange childcare for parent who be do shift work . they be step into a void that , in some part of the world , be fill by extended family . in other part of the world , such task be carry out by statutory service . but as a result of cut to support service , and of social worker have huge caseload , they be simply unable to do that , so it all fall on people whose primary motivation in life be the education of our young people . I thank my hon . friend for mention the extra work that so many of our primary school do . I particularly want to comment on the headteacher of Alexandra infant ' school in Normacot , Adele Lupton , who have for many year have a community room that be open to the community . she have work so incredibly hard to support child in incredibly difficult circumstance , and have manage to keep her team together . she be a shine example , as be so many of the wonderful headteacher in Stoke - on - Trent who fight to deliver the service that be so sadly lack sometimes . my hon . friend have make the point excellently . although she and I will talk passionately about the experience that we see in our own city , I be sure that in every city like our across the country — include , I would wager , Bradford , Madam Deputy Speaker — there be good teacher who go above and beyond to support local community , and school that act more as hub for social support , community involvement and neighbourhood engagement than simply as place for young people to be educate . we be very fortunate in Stoke - on - Trent , because we already have some family hub . I have two in my constituency . there be one at Bentilee , which do exceedingly good work , support by Simon French and the Alpha Academies Trust , and Thrive at five ; multi - agency activity there be genuinely look at the direct cause of the attainment issue and at what can be do practically to support family . we also have the hub at Thomas Boughey child ' s centre . the family hub model be not particularly revolutionary , because it replicate what happen with sure Start . my daughter be now 14 , and her mother and I have to access the sure Start system when she be bear . there be thing that , as new parent in our mid - 20 , we simply do not know . my family and hers both live far away , and our network of support be really quite small , so we naturally turn to our Sure Start centre , which be base up the road in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , who be no long in his place — I have deny he the opportunity for another intervention . we walk into the Sure Start centre , speak to a lovely woman and explain our problem , which be about latch and try to understand routine . unless people have someone who can sit they down and talk they through it , they do not really know what they be do . as a new parent who do not really know what I be do , my instinct be to think , " I ' m probably do it badly and wrong . " we go to the Sure Start centre , and it be lovely and welcoming . we sit down and have a conversation with somebody . we go through what we be worried about , and we be reassure that the anxiety we be experience as new , young parent be perfectly normal and in line with everybody else ' s expectation and understanding . somebody there be a lifeline for we , and we be signpost to a room down the corridor and tell when we could pop by again and have another conversation with somebody who have a level of expertise and who could offer support . the model that we be now rerun in Stoke - on - Trent have benefit . look at some of the datum come out of Bentilee in particular , we can see that there be improvement in the attainment level of child start school who have be through the programme , who have interact with some of the scheme and who have access the maintain school nursery at the same site . I know the Minister will be aware of the importance of maintain nursery school — those teacher - lead facility that really get to the crux of the problem in some of the community that be the hard to deal with . alongside the family hub , I welcome all the work that the Government be do in this area . there be a breakfast club at the Co - op Academy Grove school in Northwood . Mrs Carrigan and I be there one morning as it be start , and I notice not just that child be come in to have a hot breakfast , which be reassuring and welcome , but that they be interact and talk to each other . in fact , the staff tell I that the most popular thing that the young boy do after they have their breakfast be to go and play with the playdough . they do not want to play electronic game ; they want to build and model stuff . as a result , the staff be look at set up a science , technology , engineering and math group , because they can see that that be where some of the young people want to go . Mrs Carrigan tell I that the child be also more settle ; because they have come into school slightly early , have have their breakfast and take off their coat , when the day start they be ready to start learn from the moment the bell go , which mean those vital minute in the morning be use for teaching , not for try to calm down a class of 30 child who be a little bit all over the place . we can not underestimate how much those minute accrue over the course of a year and how much time can be bring back for education purpose . fundamentally , the challenge I face in Stoke - on - Trent , and that other member have eloquently articulate in their own community , stem from the fact that the attainment rate for the good start to life in place like Stoke - on - Trent be not as great as for child in other area because of the poverty level . whether we call it furniture poverty , food poverty or child poverty — whatever we call it — it be poverty : young people grow up in household that simply do not have enough come in to meet all their outgoing . the good start in life be not only an educational issue . I appreciate that this debate be be lead by the Department for Education because that be where the policy area sit , but if we want to give a child a good start in life , they need a safe , warm home that be not draughty ; they need somewhere where they have the space to grow , develop and learn ; and they need secure play area where they feel comfortable to socialise and interact with their peer . they also need access to good - quality dentist , as the huge level of tooth decay in Stoke mean that child be miss school ; access to those vital health service be crucial . let I turn to the parenting aspect . too many of my constituent tell I that they have a really bad experience at school , so they do not want to go back into school to get help , advice and support . for they , school be a moment of trauma — a time that they do not particularly enjoy — so be ask to go back to school , in some case to see the same member of staff who teach they 20 year early , give they the sense that they be be judge . we need to think much more holistically and about what lever we can pull , through Government and local government , to see our aspiration of improved outcome for young people . education be one of those lever , but we also have to make sure that parent can access good - quality support for their own health and mental health , and good - quality job so that they can afford to have a good work - life balance and to spend time with their child . we need to have a think about the way in which we establish network for young people so that , as well as the formal education set , they can access necessary social activity , whether through formal organisation like the scout or through sporting club . there have to be an opportunity for young people to socialise in the way that they be happy to do . fundamentally — I know the Minister get this because I have speak to she about it — we have to think about the nuance for individual group of young people , who need specific support . the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) rightly point out that the removal of the adoption and special guardianship support fund be a particular challenge for a small but high - need group of young people . I have make my view on that know to the Minister , and I hope that her Department will look at what more can be do to support child grow up in kinship care arrangement , like I do , because they face specific challenge . this be not necessarily a poverty - relate issue , but it be about access support service that allow they to live a fruitful childhood . finally , on SEND , I be proud to be a governor of the Abbey Hill special school , which be in the constituency of my neighbour my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South . one of the big challenge we face relate to ehcp and how to give young people a particularly good chance in life . under section I , parent can identify the particular school they want their child to go to . I agree with the Government ' s plan on this ; if we can keep child who have additional need — whether that be SEND or social , emotional , and mental health requirement — in the mainstream setting with the right help and the right support , we should do so . that free up place for the child who need that specialist , bespoke support in special school , to a level that mean everyone be in the right place . we need to stop those mainly alternative provider , which be run huge profit , market their school to child and family who be desperately in need of help and support , and say to they , " tell your local authority , under section I , that you want to go to this particular school " , because that mean the money flow out . hundred of thousand of pound be spend on alternative provider , normally outside of the area , and those provider get that money through marketing ; they sell young people and their parent a dream of a particular type of education that they can access , regardless of the standard of that education . I completely agree with the hon . gentleman . we on the liberal Democrat Benches try to put forward an amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to extend the profit cap that the Government have propose for child ' s social care home run by private equity firm to the special school cream off profit from our local authority and deny vulnerable child the education they need . however , I be afraid that Labour Members vote against it , so will he join I in convince Ministers to think again while the other place be consider the Bill ? I would not say that the hon . Lady ' s intervention be helpful to I , but she have make her point . the Government have be quite clear that we must look at how some alternative provision and specialist independent provider be make huge profit off the back of some of the most desperate and vulnerable child in our society , and at how local authority need the tool to tackle that . in a new programme opening in my own city , one of the trust that run one of the special school be look to do mainstream work with some of the other trust ' school , but that be about get trust to work together . I do not remember her amendment , but I have absolute faith in the ministerial team — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , but I can not honestly say that I read everything that the liberal Democrats produce . to move this forward slightly , I do know , and the hon . Lady will know , that the Government have be quite clear about the need to tackle the profiteering and price gouging happen in the sector . I be almost certain that the Minister will have a well answer for she than I can give she while I be speak . that be obviously something we all agree on as a principle , and I be sure we can have a discussion another time about how we get there . however , in place such as Stoke , the high need budget be be blow because thousand of pound be be take by these glossy brochure school that be make huge profit , and that do not give the young people in my city the good start in life . I think it give they false hope . finally , I would say to the Minister that the good start in life be about the first 1 , 001 day . I be very proud to chair the APPG on literacy , and I be really glad that the Department for Education have announce the year of reading . the bond of read to your child be so important . early year literacy , which also help with oracy , mean young people can start school with a set of skill that will help they thrive throughout their education . the other part of this that we need to think about be how we help parent who do not have a level of literacy necessary to start read to their child . again , all too often in my constituency I talk to parent who want to talk about literacy , but their confidence in their own literacy skill be such that they do not feel able to do that . it would be welcome if , as part of the National Year of Reading , the Department not only help young people and child get more into reading and enjoy book — enjoy read for pleasure , as oppose to have to read for work as most of we do — but ensure that parent be support to improve their literacy in a way that allow they to interact with their child for long as their own education progress , I know that would be a huge benefit not just in my constituency but across the whole country . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , although I feel I be break a run of excellent speech from the Staffordshire massive . I very much welcome this debate on give every child the good start in life . I think one thing we can agree on across all the Benches be that that be not just the title of the debate , but a moral duty . it be the measure of a Government ' s value , and it be also the foundation of a thriving and fair society . in my constituency of Southampton Itchen , the unfortunate truth be that too many child be still be hold back — not by the lack of potential , but by the lack of opportunity . it be high time that that change , and I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be make that change happen . my constituency be in the much vaunted London and the south - east , which we usually hear about for its wealth and prosperity , but the reality be often different in Thornhill and Weston , where one child in every three be grow up in poverty . that be not the picture of wealth that we be often lump in with . many child arrive at school already behind in language , health or emotional development . there be dedicated teacher and early year professional who do everything they can . I pay tribute to all those I have meet and work with over a number of year , first as a councillor and then in the past year as an MP visit school . I do not face the same height challenge as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central when visit those school — indeed , in some secondary school the pupil be tall than I these day . dedicated teacher and professional — I know colleague across the Chamber will also be meet they — be work against a legacy of underfunding and fragmentation of service . that be why I welcome the Labour Government ' s plan for change and our focus on a number of policy that will help to give every child the good start in life . they include : expand high - quality early year education ; the new nursery place for child age two to four ; and the school - base nursery in my constituency launch at St Mary ' s Church of England primary school and at Valentine primary school . I be grateful to see policy like the rolling out of free breakfast club in every primary school . the pilot establish at St John ' s primary and nursery school and St Patrick ' s Catholic primary school be hugely welcome . I have visit and help to serve breakfast to the child . I have see the benefit they be already enjoy of a solid start to the day . yes , that be through the food , but also through socialise , be with their friend and get ready to learn . my hon . friend be make an excellent point . as a fellow southern MP , I share his concern about the importance of explain that there be real poverty across the south of England , as well as in many other part of the country . he make a point about the breakfast club , which be outstanding and he be right to say how valuable they be on a number of front . we have two in reading . my fellow read mp and I be very proud of they and we look forward to see more soon . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and I wish he every success in his constituency with the pilot breakfast club . we have all welcome in the last week a restoring — let we be honest — of sure start - style family hub which will provide wraparound support for parent . from the hub I have see in my constituency over recent year — I know that work will build back up again — the potential for mental health support , childcare advice , toy library and work support be all there in those place . my hon . friend be set out , in a very eloquent way , the amazing work of the Labour Government . I be proud — I hope he agree — of the previous Labour Government ' s achievement in set up and roll out sure Start . independent research by the Institute for Fiscal Studies show what amazing outcome child have later in life , with high GCSE score , reduce hospital admission , improve physical health , the early identification of special need , maternal employment and well mental health outcome . I hope we will see the same from the new Best Start family hub , too . my hon . friend paint the picture of the crown glory of the previous Labour Government , in the Sure Start centre , not just because they be a nice feelgood thing but because of the strong evidence of the benefit they bring . what a disgrace that year after year the Conservatives cut council budget and shut those very centre . despite Tory austerity that hit Southampton hard — we lose 60 % of our Government grant at Southampton city council — we make the often tough decision financially but the right decision in purpose , to keep those building open across the city , because they be crucial centre of support for local family . I can not pretend that the range of service offer in those centre be the same as it be a quarter of a century ago when the previous Labour Government set they up under our admired and much - miss colleague , Tessa Jowell , but those building still serve a purpose . that mean that when the Conservative Government , have shut so many sure Start centre , experience an amazing epiphany — a revelation that , actually , they be a really good idea — and reinvent they under the badge of family hub , our former Sure Start centre be there and ready to be build back up again . I would gently remind the shadow Minister that the family hub , while welcome , be not new , either . in the lost year between those conservative budget cut to child ' s service and their later u - turn , far too many family in my constituency and across the country be leave without those crucial service . the Government be also invest in school improvement , particularly in area with long - stand underachievement and where attainment gap have remain stubborn . my view be that the upcoming curriculum and assessment review be a huge opportunity to introduce a refreshed and inspire curriculum with manageable assessment , rather than over - assessment and high - stake exam , and link to exciting training opportunity in the reality of job in the 21st century economy into the future . as other hon . member have say , the special educational need and disability system be absolutely broken . I commend the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who be no long in her place , for lead our Committee ' s inquiry on this subject . as I be sure be the case for other member , I hear a lot from constituent in surgery and through my inbox about situation that be in many case avoidable , and which we must certainly work hard to avoid in the future , with child ' s need not be meet because of a system that need to be fundamentally rebuild , describe by its own architect as " lose , lose , lose " . a reform SEND system must give every child the support they need to access school and ensure they be not exclude from the potential for success in life that every single child deserve and be capable of . numerous school have fantastic and innovative practice go on , include Bitterne Park secondary school , which I visit last week , which be establish a variety of unit , specialist room and particular provision within the mainstream , work towards a truly inclusive school . in reform the SEND system — I do not underestimate or envy the task of my hon . friend on the Front Bench here — I have ask Ministers to consider how we can scale up the good practice in many of our constituency to end the postcode lottery and guarantee consistency across our country . these be the kind of policy that have be announce — these be the building block of a much well future for child in my constituency and across the country . if we be serious about change , we must not only welcome and consolidate the significant change this Government be make , but commit to continual improvement . in the wind - up , I ask the Minister to address the Government ' s commitment to prioritise area like Southampton Itchen . as I have say , we may be locate in the south — often assume wrongly to be a magnet for wealth — but child poverty be entrenched and multi - generational . we must not have a blind spot to need that be base on geographical assumption . will Ministers ensure that our new Best Start family hub be truly integrate with school , NHS service and local council so that they do not simply replicate past silos ? will Ministers also guarantee long - term funding ? I think I know the answer , but it be always worth ask . long - term funding that go beyond a single Parliament — the Prime Minister have speak for a long time now about a decade of national renewal — be not just desirable , but absolutely necessary . we need investment that ensure change be deep , not just fast . will Ministers have regard to support for the family that child be grow up in ? we have hear from hon . member about well parental leave . I commend the work of the Dad Shift , among other , in raise awareness of that issue . will Ministers also ensure that they look well down the line to not just the early year , which be a crucial foundation , but the year ahead ? we must ensure that our child and young people who grow up in care have long - last support to thrive in life , guarantee by meaningful and strong corporate parenting responsibility in our public service and a national care leaver offer to close the attainment gap experience by those who be care experienced , even up to support into training or university . in closing , child grow up in Southampton Itchen can be hopeful about the building block that be go in under this Labour Government . however , they do not want or need just charity ; they need a chance — a chance to thrive in life . if we get this right , and I believe that we be absolutely set out in the right direction , we will change not just individual life , but the future of whole community . therefore , when we be give every child the good start in life , that have to mean in every single postcode in this country . we understand on this side of the House that the wealth of our country do not lie in the bank account of casino capitalist or the title deed of billionaire . it lie in nature , with each chalk stream and ancient woodland a national inheritance to be cherish ; it lie in the bond of community that hold strong even through the year of politically impose austerity ; and , perhaps most importantly , it lie in our young people — in their talent and their hope that shape our collective future . the benefit of a Labour Government have be most pronounce when translate into policy the belief that , for Britain to succeed , we must give all young people , whatever their background , the opportunity to fulfil their true potential . I welcome the fact that Hormead Church of England first and nursery school in my constituency be among the first to benefit from our breakfast club programme . together with the expansion of free school meal , these policy go some way to ensure that no child ' s learning or health be hold back by hunger . just as central to early year development be the vital importance of every child have decent housing . we need to take a holistic approach to health , welfare and education , which recognise that a secure and stable home be the foundation for everything else in life . currently , there be 164 , 000 child in temporary accommodation across the country — a record high . this mean family in overcrowded condition , child force to travel long journey to school and a situation which , all too often , be anything but temporary . I welcome the Government ' s £ 39 billion funding announcement for the affordable home programme . the commitment to allocate 60 % of this to social housing could make a real difference . to ensure that child grow up today have the good start in life , it be vital that as many of those home as possible be build during this Parliament . above all , we need a new generation of council housing , build to meet the need of those that a profit - lead sector will never provide for . this will require upfront investment and difficult choice about other project that must fall by the wayside , but we can not ignore the human cost of delay . this be not a static problem — a building simply wait to be repair . childhood do not pause . leave hard - work family to raise their child in cramped , mouldy accommodation with precious little space to play or learn be no way to nourish the future of our country . shelter be clear : we need 90 , 000 social home a year for 10 year to address the affordable housing crisis , and I will keep make the case to relevant Ministers on the need to frontload this funding package . this be not just the right thing to do morally ; the Centre for Economics and Business Research find that hit the 90 , 000 home a year benchmark would return billion to the public purse through low spending on temporary accommodation , reduce benefit cost , result in less crime , and raise nearly £ 3 billion from the improved life chance of child . by escape the desiccated logic of the Office for Budget Responsibility and the old lie that cut to people equal saving , we can instead invest in our young people and , in do so , enrich the future of our nation for all of we . in my first year as the MP for North East Hertfordshire , I have enjoy visit school and meet student in Royston , Baldock , Letchworth , Standon , Weston and other place across my constituency . the student ' talent and optimism be always a powerful antidote to the cynicism and pettiness that can all too often pervade our politic . on Friday , I visit St Katharine ' s primary school , where I meet young people from my constituency who emphasise two really important point : first , that they want to be global citizen and a part of wide humanity focus on the world , and , secondly , that they care deeply about nature and want to be conserver of it . do my hon . friend agree that our child be at their good when they be able to play the role of global citizen and can take care of the nature on our doorstep ? I wholeheartedly agree and have hear exactly the same thing from student in my constituency . each and every one of the child in our country deserve a safe , healthy and stable home that be genuinely affordable and do not leave family struggle to make end meet month after month . if we give the next generation the security to thrive , they will do the rest . the true legacy of this Government will be find in the laughter , learning and achievement of the nation ' s child . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to be close this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition . I thank colleague from across the House for their passionate contribution , and I be go to attempt to list they all : my hon . friend the Member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , and the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) , for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) , for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) and for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) . I also have it on good authority that the mps from Staffordshire hunt in a pack , and after today I can confirm that they do indeed . before I begin my speech , I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . ensure that every child , regardless of their background or circumstance , have the opportunity to thrive be something that cut to the very heart of why many of we be draw to politic in the first place . we know that in those crucial early year the foundation of health , learn and wellbeing be lay for life , so it be right that we ensure that those foundation be as solid as can be . I want to first reflect on the conservative record on early year and family , start with childcare . it be conservative government who introduce and expand free childcare entitlement , not just for parent of three and four - year - old but for parent of young child . it be a Conservative Government who launch the family hub and start for life programme , invest £ 300 million across 75 local authority to provide parenting and breastfeed support to family when they need it so that problem can be address before they escalate . we fully recognise that stable and secure family ensure the good start in life for child . that mean ensure that support be more broadly target than just at the child . family hub be a vital part of achieve this . for 14 year , our model be to have target investment , early help and a determination to move away from a system where postcode determine life outcome . nowhere be that approach more vital than in the first 1 , 001 day of a child ' s life — from conception to age two . the science be clear : a child ' s brain develop more rapidly in these year than at any other point in their life . attachment , stimulation , nutrition and the emotional environment during this time all have lifelong implication for learning , resilience and health . intervention in these early day can literally change life chance , and we know that failure to act compound over time . I pay tribute to Dame Andrea Leadsom for all her excellent work on this subject . early this month , the Government publish their " give every child the good start in life " strategy . the House will be aware that the strategy ' s name , scope and substance owe much to the work begin by the Conservative Government . there be much to celebrate when a new Government build on the good work of the previous one — and as the old saying go , imitation be the sincere form of flattery . the strategy identify the very early year as a priority for the Government , which be welcome , but I must echo the Institute for Fiscal Studies in suggest that this strategy be a first step , not the finished article . the Government ' s approach to family hub be a good example of what I mean by that . it be welcome that the Government be continue the programme , with a furth £ 69 million announce in the autumn Budget and £ 57 million in Start for life fund for 2025 - 26 . the goal of roll out good Start family hub in every local authority be certainly ambitious and something to be welcome , but there be one important point I want to make . even with this new funding , spend on integrated early year service will be remain at less than one third of what be spend on sure Start at its peak . family hub be be ask to do more , serve child up to the age of 19 , but with far few resource per child . if this Labour Government want it to be sure Start 2 . 0 — and I truly hope they do — they may need to be more ambitious with their funding plan . if the Government want to build on the solid foundation they inherit from their conservative predecessor , they must guarantee long - term investment , retain high - quality staff and ensure that hub be universal in reach but suitably target in mission . before I move on from hub , I welcome the fact that each one be promise a SEND - train staff member who can deliver practical and well - inform help to family navigate what be a complex system . as we in the House all know , SEND be a big issue . I be all too aware from casework in my constituency that the family of SEND child be too often leave fight against the very system that should be fight for they . early identification of SEND be still inconsistent , and when that diagnosis be eventually make , EHCP need assessment and much need support be often delay too . disappointingly , Ministers have refuse to rule out scrap ECHPs outside special school , despite over 300 , 000 child currently rely on they in mainstream setting . that have trigger real fear among family and professional alike . More than 110 , 000 people have sign a petition oppose these change , yet to date Ministers have offer no firm reassurance that no child will lose the legal right to the support they need . I hope that the Minister will take the opportunity today to provide some clarity and reassurance to those worried parent . look at the Government ' s approach in the round , the " good start in life " strategy contain much that the opposition welcome in principle , such as more family hub , the expansion of fund childcare to 30 hour a week for work parent of child from nine month old , thousand more nursery place and the development of a digital offer . however , if we be seek to ensure that every child have the good start in life , a key ingredient must be the provision of high - quality education : the very provision that the Government ' s Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill seek to sabotage . far from ensure that school can serve as a foundation for success in the early year , Ministers have lead an attack on school standard by undermine the academy that have lead the way on school improvement for decade . if the Government get their way , academy will no long be able to recruit teacher without qualified teacher status from non - traditional background and will be force to follow the same national curriculum as other school . those measure will risk the progress make during three decade of cross - party consensus on academy . it be nothing less than educational vandalism . if any Member of the House doubt that fact , they need only pay a visit to labour - run Wales . after 26 year of Labour in power , Wales find itself at the bottom of the ranking for the whole of the UK in math , English and science . the Government can not even bring themselves to ban smartphone in school — something so simple yet so effective in improve a child ' s wellbee and educational outcome . the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) introduce a Bill that would have do just that . I applaud he for do so and for the strong cross - party consensus he build up . it be shameful that much of his work be undo by a Government who insist on water down his Bill and bury their head in the sand to the harm . a government who refuse to act against that danger give I cause for concern about their commitment to offer child the good start in life . I will conclude by make an observation on nursery , which face extreme financial pressure because of decision take by the Government . the lack of compensation for the employer national insurance contribution increase be force nursery and childcare provider to either hike fee , opt out altogether from offer funded place or close down entirely . I ask the Minister to ponder what use any number of policy aim at support nursery and increase fund place will be if the Treasury be drive nursery into the ground with tax hike before those policy have even start . I be grateful to the many hon . member who participate in this debate on such an important subject . I will refer to hon . member as I progress through my closing speech . it would be remiss of I if I do not mention the strong representation from Staffordshire . the passion and enthusiasm that come through in hon . member ' contribution demonstrate the importance of early year and the Government ' s plan for change . we know that we have an obligation to break down barrier to opportunity . the Government will not stand by while family , parent , carer and child be indeed struggle . break down barrier to opportunity and give child the good start in life be one of the Government ' s define mission , so I welcome the step that have be take to expand free school meal , roll out free breakfast club and establish the child poverty taskforce . do the Minister agree that when that taskforce report in the autumn , it be really important that it recommend thing like lift the two - child limit , which would make such a difference to so many family ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the significance of the Government ' s work , the important issue of poverty , and the need to keep on make sure that the Government drive out poverty and meet the need of child across our country . as we have set out today , our " good start in life " strategy outline the immediate step this government be take to expand and strengthen family service , to make early education and childcare more accessible and affordable for parent , and to improve the quality of early education and childcare . however , those be just the first step in put the early year back at the heart of how we deliver strong outcome for our child , our family and our society . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) speak about right the wrong of the previous Government . he speak about the cut to sure Start service and youth service and a little bit about the deep - root cut of the previous Tory Government . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) speak about sure Start and her close connection to it . I applaud she for all her work in that area and for her campaigning work as well . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) also speak passionately about meet child ' s health , physical and psychological need , and I look forward to meet she . I hope that member be reassure that the long - term vision we have set out will transform life chance and give our child well opportunity than we have . we know without doubt that sure Start work ; it raise exam result , improve early identification and boost physical and mental health . it reach disadvantaged family and make a difference to their life . our Best Start service will honour its proud legacy . my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) speak about sure Start , the evidence of its success , child ' s achievement and how it have be strip away by the last Government . I could not agree more . this government will introduce a new Best Start family service deliver through Best Start family hub . that will be the first step towards a national family service to ensure family can get the right support for their child . do the Minister agree that access to the creative art , particularly music — I speak as a musician , so I be biased — should be available to everybody and especially young people , and that such access could be provide through the Best Start family hub ? the evidence be abundant of its positive effect on cognitive ability , hard and soft skill , teamwork , and joy within life , and it could have a profoundly positive effect on our young people as they grow up . I do not know anybody who do not enjoy some type of music . child must have the experience of enjoy music , and I can not imagine a family hub that do not have some type of musical instrument . this government encourage the creative art and music , and will continue to do so . indeed , my own daughter be learn how to play the guitar . the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) mention that every child deserve the good start in life , and the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) say that this be a cross - party issue . I could not agree more . I also reassure the hon . member for East Wiltshire that we support , and will support , parent , include single parent , and carer . this Government want to give child the very good start in life , hence the strategy and what we be introduce and speak about this afternoon . be it not the point that there should be a share national mission to invest in young people ? as be rightly point out by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , the evidence be clear that £ 1 invest in a very young child , aged less than five , be worth £ 16 invest later in their life . the purpose of our work in this field in the public sector , and with partner in the voluntary sector , should be to support very young child to have the very good start in life . my hon . friend be absolutely right ; there be nothing to disagree with there . Hubs will be open to all , with funding for these service in every single local authority . they will work with nursery , childminder , school , health visitor , library and local voluntary group to provide join - up support to parent in the community . each hub will have train professional to support parent and child who have additional need . a new Best Start digital service will mean that parent can instantly access all the trust advice and guidance that they need , whenever they need it . the Minister rightly identify that voluntary sector group be in the mix . many of those organisation have be root within their community for many year , and they continue to deliver high - quality service even when the cut come along . can we please look to ensure that the work of those group really form part of the offer and do not get replace , because they be root in the community and often know their community well ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I remember that , soon after become a Minister , I meet many voluntary and community organisation , and one of the first thing I do be to really thank they for all of the service and support they provide during really tough time under the previous Government . some people have watery eye as I acknowledge the significance of the work that they have be do and that they continue to do as they contribute to the need of our society and some of our most vulnerable child . I be delighted to hear that each of these Best Start family hub will have a fully train and professional SEND co - ordinator to support family . could the Minister say a bit more about how she envisage those co - ordinator work in partnership with local education , health and local authority partner to avoid silo thinking ? I thank my hon . friend for the way in which he connect up the various agency and Departments and point out the significance of work in close partnership . that be absolutely the right way forward . this government be deliver our promise to parent , provide more support to work family than ever before . we be deliver the entitlement of 30 hour of childcare a week for work family , back by Government funding , which we expect to reach £ 9 billion from next year . this will save family an average of £ 7 , 500 a year and give parent , especially mother , the freedom and choice to work . like my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , I have visit many primary school in my constituency , and I be sure many member have do the same , but I want to encourage they to visit their new Best Start family hub as well . quality matter when it come to early education and childcare . a high - quality setting be what all parent should expect for their child , but a great early year education start with great people , and that be why we be back the people who care for and teach our young child . we will raise the status of our workforce and , as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central mention , all staff matter . we will introduce a new professional register . we will train more early year teacher , because we know that their impact be significant . we will double the number of strong practice hub and build strong link between setting and school , so that educator can share good practice and provide the good possible care . when I talk with parent and guardian in Bournemouth East , they describe the EHCP process as be adversarial and almost design to exclude . they want a great role early on in the design of their child ' s EHCP . do the Minister agree that that be an important thing that we should be seek to achieve ? would she also agree that , as we take forward SEND reform , it be important to have family at the heart of that process ? absolutely ; we need to make sure that there be full consultation and involvement so that people and parent feel that their voice be be hear . my hon . friend have pre - empte I : I be now move on to ehcp , which be convenient . this Government be clear that the current SEND system be difficult for parent , carer and young people to navigate and be simply not deliver the outcome we want . while we have announce that the detail of our long - term approach to SEND reform will be set out in the school White Paper in the autumn , we be clear that any change we make will improve the support available to family , stop parent have to fight for support , and protect the effective provision that be currently in place . we know that many parent feel the only way their child can get the support they need be through ehcp . however , independently commission insight publish last year show that extensive improvement to the system use early intervention and well resourcing of mainstream school could have a significant impact . I be grateful for the Minister stress the importance of support for child with SEND . at Dorset studio school in West Dorset , 52 % of child have SEND — child who would struggle in mainstream education . funding for improvement to its site be agree in 2023 , but have still not be release . could the Minister say anything about that ? I thank the hon . member for share that information . I will ask the Minister for Early Education to contact he . there will always be a legal right to the additional support that child with SEND need , and it will be protect . this Government be prepared to grasp the nettle and reform a broken system set up by the Conservatives , which , as we hear , they themselves describe as , " lose , lose , lose . " we will ensure that every child in this country get the opportunity to achieve and thrive at school and to get on in life . we be carefully consider how to address and improve the experience of the EHCP process for family and be reflect on what practice could or should be make consistent nationally . we be fully commit to work with family , expert and the sector to ensure that our approach be fully plan and deliver in partnership with they . I thank the Minister for give way ; she be be generous with her time . one area of concern that parent of child who have an EHCP have raise with I be where there be multiple and complex issue — for example , there be a health issue under one criterion , an education issue under another , or a behavioural or developmental issue under the third criterion — the EHCP will only fund the primary driver of need . therefore , child sometimes may get the support they need for one particular element of their additional need , but not the support elsewhere . will the Minister assure parent in my constituency and across the country that when the Government look at the review and in whatever system that may come next , that holistic view of the child and how their complex and interdependent need be look after be at the centre of that ? I thank my hon . friend for raise a significant point that I be sure parent find difficult to grapple with . I will ensure that the point he have raise be pass on to the relevant Minister . we be review early year SEND funding arrangement to assess how suitable the current arrangement be for support the need of child with SEND . as I have already mention , detail of the Government ' s intend approach to SEND reform , include early year , will be set out in the school White Paper in the autumn . improve health and education go hand in hand , as allude to by the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) . my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) be absolutely correct when he talk about health , wealth , education and accommodation . the previous Government leave no light task , and despite what the Conservatives say and how they say it , this Government be get on with the job of fix the foundation and put right what be break . my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) speak about mental health , breakfast club and other area to do with health . he also speak about the crown glory that be sure Start , which be pleasing to hear . again , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) speak positively about breakfast club and free school meal . we know that healthy child be more able to learn and that child who achieve in education go on to live healthy life . the change outline in the " good start in life " strategy be firmly align with the three radical shift set out in the Government ' s 10 - year health plan — hospital to community , analogue to digital , and sickness to prevention . the Best Start family hub be an important part of the move to neighbourhood health . the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) speak about the inheritance of a poor school building from the previous Government . again , I will raise that with the Minister for Early Education . my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) speak passionately about the welfare of child , wraparound support and advice , to which the Government be commit . we be committed to achieve the good start in life for child . let I end by say that the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire speak so eloquently about want child to laugh , to learn and to achieve . I absolutely agree . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of give every child the good start in life . Petition - Horspath Outreach Post Office I rise to present a petition about Horspath outreach post office and to urge the Government to take urgent action follow its closure in March 2025 and the retirement of the postmaster in nearby Great Milton . the outreach post office serve as a vital community hub for resident . many old and more vulnerable villager now face significant barrier to access essential postal and banking service . over 600 resident — over half the village — have sign the petition , which show just how important this be to they . I be happy to join Judy , Rebecca , Sheila , Shelagh and Anna to present this petition to 10 Downing Street . they join Sue and Derek in the Public Gallery today . I thank they , among other , for their hard work and dedication in bring forward this petition . it can not be right that the retirement of a long - serve and dedicated postmaster be use as an excuse to cut service . the Post Office have a duty to resident of Horspath and should fulfil it . I hope that the Government and the Post Office will now take notice of the resident of Horspath and work together with they to ensure that resident can once again access those postal service . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to reopen Horspath Outreach Post Office . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the United Kingdom , declare that Horspath Outreach Post Office should be reopen , far note that since its closure on 28th March 2025 there have be a significant negative impact on resident who previously use the post office service ; far declare that it have impact elderly people , parent and those with mobility issue or without a car ' s ability to access service ; far declare that local business include Horspath Hub and the Senior Residents Club have be impact ; note that the Outreach Post Office run alongside successful community event like coffee morning ; and provide a central community for local ; further note that the two sub Post Offices 3 mile from Horspath be insufficient to deal with the need of the community ; further note that a sub - Postmaster have be find to run the Outreach Post Office ; far declare that the Post Office Ltd . should review its reason for close the Post Office . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to reopen Horspath Outreach Post Office . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003085 ] Petition - Operation Brock I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent , who be deeply frustrated by the regular deployment of Operation Brock . the decision by Kent county council and the Kent and Medway resilience forum to queue freight lorry on the M20 during the school holiday cause severe disruption for local resident and business , and be hugely expensive . my constituent do not object to Brock be deploy in emergency , and reassurance be give that that would happen . however , it be still be regularly deploy as a precautionary measure , and it will come into force once again later this week . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Transport Select Committee to launch an inquiry into the decision take by Kent County Council and the Kent and Medway Resilience Forum to regularly deploy Operation Brock , and into what work be be undertake to find a long - term alternative . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Ashford in Kent , declare that the deployment of Operation Brock by Kent County Council and the Kent and Medway Resilience Forum to queue freight lorry on the M20 cause severe disruption for resident and local business ; far that although reassurance have be give that Operation Brock would only be deploy in emergency , it have be use regularly as a precautionary measure ; and far that a well , long - term solution need to be find . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Transport Select Committee to launch an inquiry into the decision take by Kent County Council and the Kent and Medway Resilience Forum to regularly deploy Operation Brock , and into what work be be undertake to find a long - term alternative . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003095 ] petition - Sherston Surgery I rise to present a petition on the continued existence of a gp surgery in the village of Sherston , in my constituency of South Cotswolds . I thank the 1 , 695 local resident who have sign a similarly word petition , and I hope that this demonstrate to the Government this rural community ' s strength of feeling about the need for a new GP surgery to replace the exist one , whose lease will shortly expire . the petition state : the petition of the resident of Sherston and the surround village , declare that the future of Sherston surgery remain uncertain ; that the exist Tolsey surgery in Sherston be no long fit for purpose ; a new purpose - build facility have be offer by a developer ; the integrated care board have , to date , refuse to commit to operate NHS service from the propose new premise ; far declare that , without such a commitment , many resident in Sherston and its neighbouring village be in real danger of be leave without reasonable access to essential NHS primary care service . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to support the establishment and ongoing operation of a new healthcare facility in Sherston , in order to ensure continue access to NHS service for the local community . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003094 ] Petition - School visit to Parliament Maymi , James , Caleb , Riley , Noah P , Kadie , Louisiana , Mylo , Sienna , George , Penny , Ethan , Isla , Noah G , Harry , Ruby , Faye , Brad , Joe and Oliver be all child in year 6 at Stoneraise school . like many of my constituent , they be conscious of how far away Cumbria be from Westminster . as they leave primary school later this week , their similarly word petition call on the Government to do more to help child like they to visit and learn about Parliament . I wish they well for the future . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that Stoneraise school be over 300 mile from London ; that it be very expensive for school in Cumbria to take their child on a residential to our capital city ; far that the Government provide funding through the pupil premium and to local authority which can help school plan education visit , but that currently only a small proportion of pupil have the resource to be able to visit Parliament each year ; further note a petition start by Stoneraise school in Cumbria , which 155 pupil and teacher have sign , support more Government assistance to enable they and school child across the UK to visit Parliament . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure transport , accommodation and food provision for every child to be able to visit Parliament during their time in school , so that all child can see how Parliament work for we . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P003097 ] Petition - Adults at risk due to gambling addiction I rise to present this petition on behalf of the family of Marc Spalding . like too many family , their life have be devastate as a consequence of the harm cause by gambling addiction . I be incredibly move that through their pain , Marc ' s mother and sister be advocate for other who may be experience a similar situation . currently , family be not empower to raise concern with the appropriate authority on behalf of a love one struggle with a gambling addiction . this lack of agency often leave they feel helpless . this petition , in addition to one that receive 3 , 280 signature , call for legislative reform to strengthen the right of family member in these circumstance . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure NHS and local authority advocacy service allow for family to advocate for their ' at risk ' adult member and improve GP training in the area of gambling addiction utilise the propose gambling operator levy . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the family of Marc Spalding , Declares that legislation should be strengthen to allow family member to advocate for ' at risk ' adult who pose a risk to their own health and safety through gambling addition with GPs and local authority where exist advocacy service do not currently apply ; furthermore the training for GPs and other agency around identify the sign of gambling addiction and understand the appropriate referral route should be enhance use the propose gambling operator levy . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure NHS and local authority advocacy service allow for family to advocate for their ' at risk ' adult member and improve GP training in the area of gambling addiction utilise the propose gambling operator levy . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003096 ] commemoration of Matchgirls ' Strike Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) may I say how wonderful it be to have you in the Chair for this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker ? you be in the Chair for my maiden speech , and this be my first ever Adjournment debate . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) , who be also proudly wear the ribbon that we be wear today . I be grateful for the opportunity to open this debate and to pay tribute to the woman and girl of the matchgirl ' strike of 1888 . I be proudly the very first Member of Parliament for the new constituency of Stratford and Bow . the boundary may be new , but it be a part of east London with a rich and radical history that I be so proud to represent . as the granddaughter of one of Jaffna ' s first ever trade unionist , I be proud to be here to speak about this subject . in my maiden speech , I pay tribute to some of the well - know and illustrious figure who be resident of Bow . some be household name , like Gandhi , Attlee and Annie Besant , but today I pay tribute to some lesser - know but equally powerful figure in british history : the matchgirl — the young woman of the Bryant & May match factory in Bow . I be proud to have resident from Bow here in the Gallery to hear the debate , and I pay tribute to the Chisenhale ESOL Bengali lady , who visit I early today . the matchgirl be mostly very young girl — some be as young as six , but they go up to the age of 13 and beyond . they endure long hour , pitiful pay and appal working condition . they be fine for be late , for be untidy and even for talk . bad of all , they be be poison slowly and painfully . the white phosphoru use to make the match make they sicker by the day , give they a condition call " phossy jaw " . the girl would dip the match into sulphur , then into the white phosphorus mixture , and that lead to that horrible disease , which cause painful abscess , facial disfigurement , the loss of their jaw and , in some case , a slow and painful death . when this come to light via work with Annie Besant and in a news article , factory boss try to force the girl to lie . instead , they fight back and take their future into their hand . some 1 , 400 of those brave young woman walk out on strike in July 1888 , and they send a delegation right here to Parliament . some 56 matchgirl march from Bow to Parliament , and a group of 12 of those woman meet with two mp , right outside this Chamber in Central Lobby . their courageous act be record in Hansard , as Mr Cunninghame Graham ask the Home Secretary to investigate the strike and the factory ' s punitive practice . I be proud that this week , work with the Matchgirls Memorial team , who be also here in the Gallery , and my union , the GMB , we have an exhibition in this very place , which the matchgirl walk to . the strike be exactly 137 year ago this week , and it light the spark of the new labour movement and the new trade union movement . it be a spark that ignite the fire of modern trade unionism in Britain — the same movement that fight for our right at work , and a movement that I be very proud to be a part of as a member of my union , the GMB . I commend the hon . Lady on bring forward this debate . she be absolutely right to celebrate the strike of 1888 . do she agree that the spirit of the matchgirl live on in our woman today ? an example of that in my constituency and in hers be that of the WASPI woman , who refuse to take the wrong do to they lie down , and fight for recognition and fair compensation . the fight that begin with the matchgirl ' strike in 1888 clearly still live on in 2025 . this be the first Adjournment debate that I have secure , and I be delighted to be a recipient of one of the hon . Gentleman ' s famous Adjournment intervention — I have finally make it as a Member of Parliament . I certainly think that the spirit of the matchgirl remind we that unionism and collective action have long be in the domain of woman , regardless of how male - dominate the union movement or the struggle for worker ’ right may be . do my hon . friend agree that commemorate the struggle of worker , particularly woman worker , be key to understand working - class history — our history ? do she also agree that the matchgirl should be commemorate alongside industrial struggle across the country , not least those of the 19 teenage girl who be kill in the disaster of 1922 in the Dudley Port factory , the Wednesbury " Tube Town " strike of 1913 and the 1910 woman chainmaker ' strike in Cradley Heath , all of which help to form our modern - day trade union movement ? I thank my hon . friend for that powerful intervention . all Labour Members have story of woman who have shape the struggle for work people ' s right in british history . too often , those story do not get tell , so I be really pleased that we have a chance to hear they today . as I be say , the strike take place exactly 137 year ago this week , and I be proud to be in the Chamber speak about it . the union movement be still fight for dignity and fairness at work , and stand up for worker ’ right against mistreatment and malpractice . we owe so much to the woman who come before we — the pioneer of the right we enjoy today . they stand up against injustice , take power into their own hand , and win all the concession they demand from greedy factory boss . those woman change the course of history , and I and many other woman would not be here without they . I come to the House today in that same spirit , to ask the Minister whether we will finally formally recognise the matchgirl ' role in the british trade union movement and in the advancement of the right of woman and girl in Britain . I mention Mr Graham , one of the mp who meet the matchgirl in Parliament . those mps ' name be record in Hansard , but the name and voice of the matchgirl be absent , because it would be decade more before a woman first sit on these green Benches . the matchgirl ' contribution to the story of new trade unionism , british labour history , and the struggle for right and dignity at work be too often forget . that history be too often overlook ; work - class story be leave untold , and be under - represent in our curriculum and our history book . it be a history that belong to all of we , and that we all have a responsibility to keep tell when we have the chance . my hon . friend be make a very strong case for the importance of history . as my parliamentary neighbour , she will know that our part of east London have an incredibly strong labour and industrial history , but do she agree that it be so often forget that much of that history involve — or be lead by — strong working - class woman ? those woman have to overcome not only class prejudice , grind poverty and difficult social condition , but the sexism of the time . we must do far more to shine a light on their success and achievement , from which we all benefit today , to make sure they stay in the public memory . my hon . friend make a powerful point . as neighbour mp , we be struggle together to get our voice hear in this place and make sure those woman be record in history . he be a powerful advocate , and an ally in the fight for improved condition for worker . many descendant of the matchgirl live in my hon . friend ' s constituency today , and some even work in the Tate & Lyle factory that he be proud to represent . I take this moment to pay tribute to our joint predecessor , Lady Brown of Silvertown , who hold a debate about matchgirl over a decade ago . the history I be talk about belong to all of we , and we have a responsibility to keep tell it . I be sad to say that the conservative Benches be completely empty this evening . conservative Members might try to talk down our trade union when they be in the Chamber , but we on the Labour Benches be so proud of our industrial heritage . as such , I ask the Minister whether the Government will look at how that history be teach in school , so that working - class story such as those of the east end matchgirl and so many other that we have hear about today be finally hear , and that these people ' s contribution to Britain be finally recognise . this be an important debate , and I thank my hon . friend so much for secure it . the matchgirl ' strike play a really important part in the whole of labour history and the struggle of woman . in Durham , we have the Durham Women against Pit Closures , who sustain the miner in their strike . they join the picket line and be key figure in their area , and they be still around today — we see they last week at the gala . do my hon . friend agree that it be so important that the struggle of woman of the past be remember , and that they empower woman of the future ? I could not have put it well myself . Durham be root in the fight for worker ’ right , and I be proud that that tradition be still continue . my hon . friend have long be a powerful advocate for work people ' s right and union voice in Britain . she have make a powerful point , and I thank she for her intervention . as we honour these woman and celebrate how far we have come , we also know that — in the word of another incredibly powerful woman — great be the work yet to be do , particularly for woman in today ' s workforce who still struggle disproportionately with low - pay and insecure work . there be 3 . 9 million work woman in the UK who be in severely insecure work — insecure work that create a culture of fear and uncertainty , isolate employee , and so often leave young woman struggle financially . young woman be more likely to work in sector with high job insecurity . they be pay less , work few hour , and face last - minute shift change . all that put they under great financial and emotional pressure . young woman be pay less , and be stick in role that be far below their potential . over time , this chip away at their confidence , their mental health , and any sense of self - worth . when they do not feel safe to speak up about poor treatment , they start to believe that be treat unfairly be just part of the job . what be bad be that many young woman do not even know their right at work . I have work with the Young Women ' s Trust , which have tell I that nearly half the woman it survey do not know their right in insecure job . this follow woman throughout our life . when woman return to work after pregnancy , their wage stagnate and they be cripple by the cost of childcare . woman be still struggle today , and that must change — which be why I be so proud to be a member of the Bill Committee consider this Labour Government ' s Employment Rights Bill , a Committee to which the Minister be integral . we be deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , roll back Tory attack on worker ’ right to have their voice hear at work , crack down on fire and rehire practice , ban non - disclosure agreement that prevent people from speak up about harassment and discrimination , deliver sick pay for 1 . 3 million of our low earner , enhance workplace protection for pregnant woman and new mother , and take on the gender pay gap . in all those way , we be boost living standard and workplace protection for million . now , 137 year on from the matchgirl ' strike , those landmark reform will deliver right and dignity to a new generation of woman and work people , but we must ensure that young woman know their right and that those right be enforce . we must therefore give the fair work agency the power and resource to do its job well and ensure that the worker most at risk of exploitation and discrimination be help to access their right , so that our economy can finally gain from the skill and talent of young woman . I have cover a lot of ground today , and it have be a bit of a history lesson : the story of the matchgirl , pride in Britain ' s work class history , pride in the story of my constituent in Stratford and Bow , and the security and dignity of young woman in today ' s workforce . if member want to learn more , I encourage they to visit the Upper Waiting Hall off the Committee corridor , where the Matchgirls Memorial be host an exhibition right here in Parliament . I want to thank the brilliant woman in my team who have help I to put this speech together , and who have be integral to the work we have be do to shine a light on this subject . I pay tribute to Anna Gorrell , Niamh o ' Brien and Sameeah Ahmad . let I also thank Barbara Plant of the GMB , who be in the Gallery today , and Penny Robinson from GMB London region , who have play an integral role in help I along my way as a Member of Parliament . I want to end by honour the inspire legacy of the woman and girl of the matchgirl ' strike of 1888 by ensure that the name of the strike and union committee be record in Hansard , and that their contribution to the fight for the worker ’ right that we all enjoy today be remember . do my hon . friend agree that the brave action of the matchgirl , like those of so many woman trade unionist and , indeed , woman throughout history , should serve as an inspiration to girl and young woman in constituency such as mine , and that they can be inspire to take action to gain the justice that they need in their life and we need in all our life ? absolutely . my hon . friend have make a very important point . as I be say , I would like to ensure that the name of the strike and union committee member be record in Hansard , so that their contribution to the fight for the worker ’ right that we all enjoy today be remember . they be Eliza Martin , Mary Naulls , Louisa Beck , Kate Sclater , Julia Gambleton , Ellen Johnson , Jane Wakeling , Mary Driscoll , Jane Staines , Alice Francis , Eliza Price , Mary Cummings and Sarah Chapman , whose great - granddaughter Sam be in the Gallery and have do so much to honour the incredible legacy of the matchgirl . there be a saying : " if you want a job do right , get a woman to do it . " never have this be truer in the fight for woman ' s right than for the matchgirl , and I pay tribute to these extraordinary woman . rise — order . it might just help member if I explain that because the debate start early , we have time for they to make speech without have ask the Member in charge or the Minister for permission to do so . the hon . member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) be right to say that there be an excellent exhibition in the Upper Waiting Hall . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) for secure this important debate on a topic that need a great light shine on it . I find the debate similarly emotional , have work with woman and girl throughout my career to help they find their voice . the matchgirl use their voice to uplift so much more than just their own fight ; they inspire a movement behind they . I do not think that the docker would have go on strike the follow year without the inspiration of those young woman and girl , so I thank my hon . friend deeply for bring forward this issue today . I will be incredibly brief , because she have cover everything that need to be say in great detail . without the matchstick girl , we would not have the labour movement and the Labour party that we have today , so their legacy live on strongly . I be really proud that young people from my summer school have be in the Gallery today . I be do my first summer school , because one thing that really matter to I when I get elect be make sure that the door behind I be open for working - class girl and boy . what really matter be that they see the good of this place today . they be able to witness proceeding in the Chamber , and they be able to speak to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and hear what someone who have a modest upbringing be able to achieve in life . that inspiration come directly from the matchgirl , some of whom be as young as 13 , who go on strike in a really brave move . they risk so much — their job , their pay and their safety — but they be not just fight for well pay . it be about dignity , and it be about justice for their future and for we , so I thank they deeply for keep their resistance alive . every time any of we speak in here , cast a vote or try to challenge an injustice , we do so not just for today , but for those who will come after we . I think particularly of the member of my summer school , some of whom be just learn about politic and what their voice can achieve . they be spend a week devise a campaign that can change their community , which be my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village . in closing , I would like to say that if we keep fight for fairness , we can change the world for today , but also for those who come after we . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow for secure this debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) on secure her first Adjournment debate . she have choose a topic extremely well and , as she highlight , it be really important that we draw attention to the incredible courage of the woman who participate in the matchgirl ' strike . it be important that this House acknowledge and recognise this very important piece of british history . as my hon . friend touch on , these young woman , many of whom be teenager , work in absolutely appalling condition . we have make great advancement in work condition in recent decade , but it be a particularly horrendous set of circumstance , even for the time . woman work at the match factory suffer from what be describe as phossy jaw , a painful and disfiguring disease cause by exposure to white phosphoru . they endure 14 - hour working day in overcrowded and poorly ventilate condition , and their strike be a watershed moment . it garner widespread public support , and ultimately force Bryant & May to concede to their demand . it be right that the name of these courageous woman be include on the parliamentary record , and I thank my hon . friend for do that . as hon . member will know , the matchgirl ' strike take place a year before the more famous London dockworker ' dispute of 1889 , which be so formative in the growth of trade union , include of course today ' s GMB union . for the record , I draw attention to my proud membership of the GMB . the organise female workforce show those work on the dock just what be possible when worker stand up for their right ; they show that insecurity and unfairness at work never have to be tolerate . the labour movement be a living , breathe one and we can take inspiration from each other , include those who have go before we in the struggle for improved working condition . I be pleased to be able to visit the exhibition on the Committee corridor mention by my hon . friend , and I highly recommend that other member take the time to visit it and learn more about the history of these struggle . the legacy of these woman be wholly remarkable . they be part of a trade union movement that achieve so much , as we can see when we look back now : discrimination protection , pay holiday entitlement , pay maternity leave , and the right to request flexible working . so many advance have come from those beginning . however , as have be touch on , there be still many issue of unfairness that need to be address today . a recent survey by the Young Women ' s Trust find that 67 % of woman say they have face discrimination , 37 % believe they have have to endure unsafe working environment , 26 % have experience sexual harassment at work , and 50 % have not receive pay when off sick . I be pleased to say that we be hope to address all those matter . my hon . friend raise an important point about young woman ' s awareness of their right at work , and it be crystal clear that we need that in order to be effective in enforce our right . I hope that we , as a Labour Government , will be able to trumpet that . my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) speak with great passion and make the important point that the courage that these woman show be instrumental in and inspirational to the formation of the Labour party . it be not yet form at the time of the strike , but the growth of the trade union movement and the belief that government at the time be not represent the interest of work people lead to the formation of the Labour Representation Committee and then the Labour party itself . we be proud to be a part of that tradition . as a Labour Government , we want to continue the work do by the matchgirl and ensure that workplace be safe for woman . the Employment Rights Bill be help we achieve exactly that by tackle non - disclosure agreement use to cover up sexual harassment , in a development that only this week have be call world lead . we be strengthen dismissal protection for pregnant woman and new mother , and expand gender pay gap action plan . as have be touch on , the pivotal role that the fair work agency will have in ensure that exist and new right be enforce can not be overstate . the Employment Rights Bill also address insecure work such as exploitative zero - hour contract and the heinous practice of fire and rehire . we know from research that woman be more likely to be in insecure work , with an estimate 650 , 000 woman on zero - hour contract , compare with 519 , 000 man . so the struggle continue : the work never cease but the determination of this government to address worker ’ right and improve protection in the workplace be undimmed . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow for her assistance on the Employment Rights Public Bill Committee . she have carry on her keen interest in this area , help to push for improve right at work , as well as rightly celebrate those who have have to fight for their right in the past . the Government ' s plan to make work pay be deliver real change for million of people . the work this government be do on our transformative agenda , which be lead of course by a woman — the Deputy Prime Minister — show that we be stay true to the spirit of the matchgirl and the trade union movement , and we be renew our country so that it once again serve the interest of work people . the Employment Rights Bill be a generational leap forward in worker ’ protection , and I believe it will be one of the proud achievement of this Labour Government . I will turn to my hon . friend ' s point on education . she will know that the Department for Education provide a statutory national curriculum that set out the subject and broad content to be teach in maintain school across England . within that framework , school have a degree of flexibility , especially in subject such as history . there be part of the history curriculum that lend themselves to teach about the matchgirl ' strike . in key stage 1 , there be teach about " the life of significant individual in the past who have contribute to national and international achievement " , during which " aspect of life in different period " can be teach . in key stage 3 , there be the theme of idea , political power , industry and empire in Britain between 1745 and 1901 . it can also be teach as part of any local history content in the curriculum , which be particularly pertinent in my hon . friend ' s area . by coincidence , when I speak to my parliamentary assistant just before I enter the Chamber , he tell I that he be inform of the matchgirl ' struggle during his education , and I hope that that be repeat up and down the country . Oak National Academy offer a resource on the matchgirl ' strike for year 8 pupil , and resource be also available from the Historical Association , English Heritage and the National Archives . turn to my hon . friend ' s point on commemoration , this country have a long and well - establish tradition of commemorate its national and local individual through statue and memorial , which serve as a long - last reminder of individual and their effort for this country and help to bridge the gap between the past and the present . as she will know , it be not normal practice for central Government to fund such monument , but there be a long history of memorial and statue be fund by public subscription , and the Government support that approach . experience have show that investor , include from the private sector , be often happy and willing to fund new memorial . many organisation — public and private — be rightly able , subject to the relevant permission , to freely propose , fund , develop and deliver memorial mark a variety of incident and historical moment in a way that they be well place to deem appropriate and sensitive . many successful memorial be create by a wide range of authority and organisation , which be able to respond sensitively to the particular circumstance that they seek to commemorate . will my hon . friend congratulate those from Redhills in County Durham , the home of the Pitman ' s Parliament — and where I have my office — which have be give money for a huge refurbishment to make it into a live heritage site ? the Redhills building will provide young people with an education about what happen in the past , but will also , by show they how to live out their heritage of the struggle of the mining community , empower they to go on and fight as the man and woman in the north - east do before they . it will be open to the public in the autumn , but I want to congratulate they on the wonderful thing they have do . I be certainly happy to join my hon . friend in congratulate Redhills on that achievement . if it be open in the autumn , I hope it will be ready for when I come and visit she in her constituency . perhaps those involve would like to work to that as a target . as we know , a great many people and organisation be interested in establish memorial , and as a general rule it be for those group to work with the relevant local planning authority and other organisation to identify a suitable site and obtain the necessary planning permission . that say , the Government provide indirect assistance through the memorial grant scheme , which be administer by the Department for Culture , Media and Sport . the scheme make grant towards the vat incur by charity and faith group in the construction , repair and maintenance of public memorial structure , include war memorial . the scheme have a fix budget of £ 500 , 000 a year for this spending period . I urge my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow to correspond with the dcms if she wish to seek further advice on the commemoration process . in conclusion , I once again thank my hon . friend for bring this important debate to the House , and for provide the opportunity for the name of those truly courageous and inspirational matchgirl to be forever immortalise in Hansard . that be a fitting tribute , which my hon . friend have deliver for this House today . question put and agree to . House adjourn . defer Divisions Competition that the draft Enterprise Act 2002 ( Definition of Newspaper ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 26 June , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Richard Tice Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Steve Darling Edward Davey Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Pippa Heylings Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joshua Reynolds Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Mel Stride Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 334 , Noes 54 . question accordingly agree to . competition that the Enterprise Act 2002 ( Amendment of Section 58 Considerations ) Order 2025 ( SI , 2025 , no . 737 ) , date 26 June 2025 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 26 June , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Mike Kane Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Richard Tice Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Michael Wheeler Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Steve Darling Edward Davey Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Pippa Heylings Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joshua Reynolds Anna Sabine Roz Savage Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Mel Stride Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 333 , Noes 54 . question accordingly agree to .