Madam Deputy Speaker , it be a genuine honour to address you and the House today . it be a privilege not just to represent the Derbyshire Dales , but even to be there , because it be truly an area of outstanding natural beauty — know to many hon . member , I be sure , because it be a destination for million . but its great appeal also present a problem , particularly for young people who be look for housing . the little house building that take place be more or less match by the number of property lose to second home , holiday let and Airbnbs . that result in the high house price in the region , which put house out of the reach of many young people ; they end up move to other area to find more affordable housing . that in turn mean few young family , few child , and school with fall number on roll . small business , include farm , pub and restaurant , suffer as well , as they struggle to get staff due to the lack of affordable accommodation nearby . it be vital that we address this housing crisis . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sarah Dines , who stand up for the farming community in the dale — something that I very much hope to continue . I have have the pleasure of meet her predecessor , Lord Patrick McLoughlin , who be in the other place , and I hope to benefit from his vast experience of the constituency . the main industry in the dale be , unsurprisingly , tourism , leisure and hospitality , quarrying and agriculture . I be hopeful that the new Government can secure a veterinary agreement with the European Union to give our struggle farmer a boost . I have spend much of my first few week in the role speak to farmer to try to understand what the key issue be for they . food security in an increasingly unstable world must be a high priority . the dale have great historical significance . accord to the Anglo - Saxon chronicle , in the 10th century , the northern king meet Edward the Elder at the Bakewell burh and choose he as father and lord , effectively create the entity that we call England . arkwright ' s mill at Cromford be the birthplace of mass production , and of course it be power by renewable energy . I recently meet the Arkwright Society , which be restore the site for the benefit of future generation and do a great job . I also recently meet Jamie Needle , who have take on Masson mill , another of Arkwright ' s mill . he be also concern with the delivery of hydroelectric power from the Derwent — what go around come around . stone from Derbyshire quarry be use in the reconstruction of Parliament in the 19th century , and the founder of modern nursing , Florence Nightingale , live in the constituency , at the family residence at Lea Hurst . she say : " nursing be a progressive art such that to stand still be to go backwards . " today ' s health service be barely stand still . we need to reduce the waiting list , and to get 3 million working - age people back to work as soon as possible . I know from my time as the Mayor of Derby that so much of the good be do daily never make the headline ; good deed do not appear to sell newspaper or attract advertising . but in my few week in this role , I have already meet some remarkable people and organisation who be make a difference in the constituency and far afield . Aquabox be a Cromford charity with over 80 volunteer who supply clean water solution to people in disaster zone . Terry Eckersley at River Network provide social housing and a second chance to people in need . Bakewell Youth Theatre have be lead and inspire by Sue Stones for 46 year . I appreciate that this be on a different scale , but Chatsworth House , no less , have give invaluable opportunity to child and young people in the area by have a " takeover " day at the world - famous stately home . I must mention Ben Woodroffe , our world champion toe wrestler — yes , it ' s a thing . as well as be a great bloke and a champion , he have raise valuable fund for the mental health charity Mind . I hope the day of have a reasonable expectation that one ' s child will do well in life be not over , but they seem at least to be on pause . a lack of housing , a reduction in opportunity due to political decision making , unrestrained social medium and a climate crisis mean that my child be enter adulthood with much great uncertainty than I do . as a foster carer of teenage child for 24 year , I know how tough thing be for young people in general , but they be much hard for young people leave care now than they be just a few year ago . local authority be run on fume , so the support have diminish , and unfortunately the prejudice against care - experience young people still persist . the new Government must work towards fix the broken child ' s social care market , address the lack of placement sufficiency , and end the profiteering from vulnerable child that be drive our local authority to the brink of bankruptcy . I do not even bother to check with the Commons Library , but I be very sure that I be the first former singer of a progressive metal band to be elect to this House . although my gig day be behind I , I think , I be extremely pleased that the Labour Government will seek a deal with the EU to help our touring act , who suffer no end of red tape when try to get to the continent to ply their trade . the UK music industry have be an enormous success story over many decade and we need to support all of it — not just the multimillion selling act , but the one play to a couple of hundred people , who will hopefully be tomorrow ' s multimillion selling act . during my campaign , I be strike by the sheer number of constituent whose No . 1 priority for an incoming Government be either the climate or nature , so I feel empower to say that as influencer and maker of law , we have a duty to think not just in the short term and until the next election , but about those who have not even be bear yet , and to leave behind a habitable planet . I be particularly proud to campaign under a banner of public service — service to our constituent and the nation . country first , party second . we be here not for the status , but for the people who elect we . I will try to keep remind myself of that . we must deliver on our commitment , but we must also treat the staff here , the staff work in our office , our colleague in local government and in the civil service and our constituent with the respect that they deserve . if we can do that , we will move this great bastion of democracy a little close to the people it serve .