Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Animal Welfare Standards : import and Exports whether he be take step to improve animal welfare standard applicable to food import and export . we be committed to maintain high animal welfare and food standard . since leave the EU , we have put in place strong control on import , and we be use Brexit freedom to strengthen animal welfare standard even far by ban the export of live animal for slaughter . [ interruption . ] order . can I say to the hon . member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) that we be in the middle of a question , and he have just walk right in front of the Member ask it ? yesterday , the UK Government implement a border target operating model in which a veterinarian must provide a health certificate for meat import from the EU . meanwhile , the UK - Australia free trade agreement , which come into effect six month ago , be likely to lead to increase import of low - cost product produce in Australia use pesticide that be not permit in the UK and in the absence of veterinary check . accord to the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , Australia have low welfare standard in many sector , such as egg , pigmeat production and chicken . do the Secretary of State accept that this asymmetry on standard of animal welfare be incoherent and pose a significant risk of contaminate the food chain with ban pesticide ? the hon . Gentleman be mix up two issue . he mention Australia , and specifically egg . if he actually look at the agreement with Australia , he would see that egg be exclude , as be pork and poultry . he be mix that up with the issue of food standard for import from Europe . of course , if we do what his party would advocate and be still in the EU , there would be no check at all . this week , Ian Perks , a constituent of mine , have his entire shipment seize in France by over - zealous french official because he miss out a single word on the export health certificate . can the Secretary of State please reassure I that we will find arbitration method to speed up the process of challenge these completely ridiculous situation ? I know my hon . friend champion very strongly the farming and food sector in his constituency , and that he have raise this issue with my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , who be actively engage on it . of course , a proportionate approach should always be take on these issue . food sector : profit whether his Department be take step to help ensure profit in the food sector be fairly distribute . power in the Agriculture Act 2020 allow we to introduce statutory code of practice to improve market transparency and ensure fairness in the supply chain . we will use these power whenever we find clear evidence of unfair practice , so that all farmer get a fair price for their product . when will the Minister wake up to the fact that , since Brexit , food price have rocket ? my constituent can not afford to buy staple food . be it not the truth that farmer be struggle ? they be get almost nothing for their milk , their potato and the ordinary thing that man and woman buy in this country . where be the money from these high price go , because it be not to the farmer ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman where the high price be : they be in France and Germany . if we look at the value of a basket of good , we see that in the UK they be low than they be in the European Union . if we have follow his model or his advice , we would still be in the EU . our retailer , our farmer and our processor be work together , and we want to see fairness in the supply chain . we want fairness for the consumer , and also for the farmer , the retailer and the processor . Ynys M ô n farmer and the farming community be important to food production , and their profit be vital to our Anglesey island economy . do the Minister agree with Aled Jones , the president of National Farmers Union Cymru , that Welsh Government sustainable farming scheme will have " damaging consequence " , include the potential loss of 5 , 500 job in the sector ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for how she campaign on behalf of her constituent . I know that Welsh farmer be very concerned about the Welsh Government ' s approach to Welsh agriculture . here in England , we be try to support farmer in produce top - quality food and look after the environment , and I think the Welsh Government need to reflect on how they should influence their farmer to do exactly the same . fly - tip what step he take be to support local authority to reduce litter and fly - tipping in city . what step his Department be take to tackle fly - tipping . I know what a blight litter and fly - tipping can be on local community , which be why we have provide nearly £ 1 million to help council purchase new bin and almost £ 1 . 2 million to combat fly - tipping , while a furth £ 1 million will be award in the spring . we have more than double the maximum fine that council can issue , with all income from fly - tip fine to be reinveste in enforcement and clean up our street from April , to ensure that council can invest in crack down on crime . bring the Wombles back ! my constituent ' anger and frustration with litter and fly - tipping have grow as £ 390 million - worth of Government cut to Newcastle City Council ' s budget have impact on service . child in particular complain to I about have to play in rubbish . my 15 - point plan for rubbish set out some of the additional power council need to address the scourge . will the Minister meet I to discuss it , and will he back Labour ' s plan for fix penalty notice for fly - tipper ? this Government be take tough action on fly - tipping , which be why we have specifically allow council to collect those fine and ringfence they for prosecution and clean up the street . it be important to note that it be conservative council that be go above and beyond in deal with the issue ; labour council be three time bad than conservative council at deal with fly - tip crime . resident live in Cobham Road , Friar Park , in my constituency have recently experience fly - tipping in the alleyway behind their property . despite this be report by councillor four month ago , Sandwell Council have still not remove that rubbish . apart from tell my constituent to vote conservative in May , what further step can the Minister take to ensure that council fulfil their duty to remove rubbish quickly ? my constituent in West Bromwich East deserve well . I be disappointed to hear once again about the fly - tipping that my hon . friend ' s constituent be experience for the first time in Friar Park . we be give council extra power to crack down on fly - tipping , but of course it be up to council to use the power we be give they , and it be important to note that the Labour administration at Sandwell Council be once again the bad perform council in the country , with zero prosecution for fly - tipping last year . that be despite this Conservative Government raise fix penalty notice for fly - tipping from £ 400 to £ 1 , 000 , and the Government enable those council — I call Ruth Cadbury . Hounslow Borough be plague by fly - tipping . despite the council use all the power it can to address the problem , spend large amount of money to do so , and have a good rate of recycling , fly - tipping continue . what be the Government ' s timetable for respond to the Public Accounts Committee report on the Government ' s programme for waste reform ? we be give council more power than ever before to deal with fly - tipping . we have raise the minimum penalty fine from £ 400 to £ 1 , 000 , and be allow council to ringfence that money for prosecution and clean up their street . it be disappointing to see from the stat that labour council be not use the power we be give they as much as they should . the penalty be insufficient . if offender be garrotte with their own intestine , there would be few of they . it be important to note that council can use the power that we be give they to apply increase penalty fine of £ 1 , 000 . the Government want those penalty to be use , so that we can drive down fly - tipping in all council area . horticultural Peat when his Department plan to bring forward legislative proposal to ban the sale of horticultural peat . this Government be absolutely clear about the need to end the use of peat product in horticulture in England . the use of peat have halve since we signal that in 2020 , and in August 2022 we announce that we would ban the sale of peat for use in amateur gardening . we remain committed to legislate for that when parliamentary time allow . in the meantime , we be continue to work with the industry to explore way to help it transition completely to peat - free working . UK peatland store over 3 billion tonne of carbon , which be more than all the forest in the UK , France and Germany combine . the Government be right to bring in proposal for a ban , but that be back in 2022 and we have have no primary legislation yet . the Royal Horticultural Society , which be commit to be 100 % peat - free , say that 40 % of the industry be wait for the legislation , so it can get on with a ban across the whole sector . the industry want to do it , but it need the legislation urgently . I too have meet the RHS , and go to see its wonderful experiment on peat - free product very recently , some of which the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs put money into . this Government be commit to end the use of peat in horticulture in England , and we will legislate as soon as parliamentary time allow . I can assure my hon . friend that in the meantime we be work closely with those who want peat - free medium , as well as the business supply those grow medium . a wide variety of work be go on , include research and experiment . as I have say , peat use have halve , and my hon . friend might be interested to know that the Forestry Commission promise to go peat free — Order . I call Jim Shannon . I thank the Minister for that very long response . Peatlands in Northern Ireland be extremely important . they absorb water and moisture and improve the habitat . this question be as important in this House as it be to we in Northern Ireland . give that the Northern Ireland Assembly will hopefully be up and run again , will the Minister have discussion with the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs Minister , to ensure that we can work together for the betterment of all ? Peatlands be such an important habitat , so it be important that we work together . that be why we be put huge amount of money into restore peatland in the upland and the lowland , and we have just increase our sustainable farming incentive payment for that . farmer can get more than £ 900 a hectare to start to re - wet peat . I call the shadow Minister . I agree entirely with what the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) say . we welcome the Government ' s intention on peatland , but the idea that this Government , after 14 year , be so fizz with new idea that they do not quite have the parliamentary time to get on with act on those intention be , candidly , laughable . will the Minister tell we what be actually happen ? we be expect legislation in this year ' s King ' s Speech , but it be not there . there be an urgent need for it , and it be support by industry . will the Government just get on with implement one of the few popular policy they have leave ? the hon . Gentleman should look at what we be do on peatland ; I have just mention it . there be all the work to restore peatland , both upland and lowland , and all the work on pilot project so that farmer can transition to new crop to grow on peatland . we have commit to ban the use of peat when parliamentary time allow . Dog Attacks what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure public safety from dog attack . we have take quick and decisive action follow the concern rise in fatality ; there have be nine recent fatality . we have now see 30 , 000 dog owner register as part of the balanced approach we be take . follow the ban on XL bully dog , owner will have apply for a certificate of exemption , so that they can keep their dog , and as part of that , the dog have to be neuter . the British Veterinary Association have put forward a prudent neutering suggestion : give the evidence that neuter large - breed dog before they be 18 month old can increase the risk of developmental orthopaedic disorder and other medical condition , will the Government take the reasonable , small step of extend the neuter deadline to the end of June 2025 for those dog under seven month of age at 31 January 2024 ? give my hon . friend ' s expertise on this issue as Parliament ' s only vet , I listen closely to what he propose . as he know , neuter be a necessary population control , and we have already respond to the great risk to dog of a young age by take action to extend the deadline . I be happy to take away the proposal that he raise and look at the issue again . the deadline for register XL bully be 12 o ' clock yesterday . I have be contact by a constituent who miss the deadline for financial and personal health reason . many people up and down the country will genuinely have not be able to meet the deadline . accord to the legislation , they could face up to 14 year in prison , an unlimited fine and the destruction of that XL bully pet . can the Secretary of State advise I what step people in that position — people who genuinely want to register — might take to remedy this awful position ? across the House , we all want to ensure that a proportionate approach be take , and that people register as quickly as possible . we all see the risk , in term of the harm and the attack that the House have be unite in addressing . I be happy to look at any specific constituency case that the hon . Gentleman raise , but the clear message be that people need to register as quickly as possible . environmental Land Management Schemes what step he be take to support farmer through the environmental land management scheme . this year , we be increase payment rate under environmental land management scheme , through a 10 % average uplift , and we be add about 50 new action , so that farmer can access the most comprehensive offer yet . the sustainable farming incentive and countryside stewardship mid - tier application process will be streamline , make it easy for scheme to slot into farm business . I thank my right hon . friend the Farming Minister for meet my farmer in Wasdale last year . I be sure that sure the journey through the English Lake district be inspiration to provide those payment for stone wall . I have continue that conversation in a succession of farming policy information supper . there be a keen desire among farmer to take advantage of elm ; what they be overwhelmingly ask for , though , be clarity about what to go for and when to go for it to achieve the most successful , sustainable and profitable farm business . my hon . friend be truly privileged to represent such a beautiful part of England . we be collaborate with stakeholder to ensure that our scheme work for they . we regularly communicate with they through the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affair ' s farming blog , by meet they at trade show , through ministerial visit , and through stakeholder organisation such as the National Farmers Union , the Country Land and Business Association and the Tenant Farmers Association . we be also provide free business support to farmer and land manager in England through the future farming resilience fund . grant and scheme for farmer be publish through our single funding page . I call the shadow Minister . last week ' s report from the Government ' s environmental watchdog , the Office for Environmental Protection , be a damn indictment of the Government ' s record . it say they be " largely off track " , with just four of the 40 target be achieve . when it come to the environmental land management scheme , can the Minister tell the House just how much environmental improvement they have help farmer to deliver so far ? I think that two month into a 25 - year plan be probably too soon to judge that plan . we be make huge stride with our stakeholder and farmer , who be work up and down the country to improve the environment . they have spend generation create that environment . we should celebrate what they have achieve , and we should encourage they to do more . that be what the sustainable farming incentive be design to do , and what the scheme be deliver . the Minister doesn ' t know , do he ? the Government be spend large amount of public money , but they do not set up a system to measure it . the new Secretary of State be generally on the money , so I be sure he have ask this question : what we be get for the money ? let I try a simple version of the question . with ELMs so far , have there be environmental improvement or environmental degradation , or be it simply " Don ' t know " ? these thing be actually quite easy to see and to measure . if we look at the hedgerow plant in England in the last decade , we see that thousand of kilometre of hedgerow have be plant . large area be be dedicate to biodiversity and create food for wild bird population . that be what the SFI be deliver ; it be there to see . all the hon . Member need to do be get out of Cambridgeshire and look at some of those farm . Windsor Framework : Horticulture whether he have have recent discussion with horticultural business on the operation of the Windsor framework . defra official meet king seed on 19 January . the Department regularly meet a range of business , include through the working group establish with the Horticultural Trades Association , which meet most recently on 18 January . the Minister will know that king seed be what be know as a well establish local business , have be base in Kelvedon since 1888 . it trade in horticultural seed and be know for its sweet pea , but as he will be aware , it can not send its product to Northern Ireland , which it say be because of barrier relate to the Windsor framework . will he clarify whether the announcement make early this week — we will discuss the statutory instrument relate to they later today — will resolve the issue ? if not , will he work with I and team across Government to ensure that we deal with the issue ? perhaps he would like to come to Kelvedon to meet the company . as I say , DEFRA official meet king seed on 19 January . I be more than happy to meet my right hon . friend and the company to discuss its concern and see how we can support it in all its excellent work in her constituency . we appreciate the concern of king seed . we be invite it to the new horticulture working group announce in yesterday ' s Command Paper , along with industry representative . the Government will ask the group to address the movement of seed to consumer in Northern Ireland as a priority . I look forward to hear its recommendation . I apologise for my early misdemeanour , Mr Speaker . now that we have significant progress towards the restoration of devolution , will the Minister agree to work with DUP Members and his ministerial colleague to ensure that issue such as the horticultural one continue to be resolve , so that we have maximum efficiency across the North channel ? I be delighted to work with the hon . Gentleman . we have a track record of work with our DUP friend to solve the challenge that we face . that conversation can continue , and I look forward to work with he to continue to solve those challenge . biodiversity Loss what step his Department be take to help reverse biodiversity loss . this Government have create a whole framework for restore nature through our legally bind Environment Act 2021 target , which include our world - lead commitment to halt the decline of specie by 2030 . we be accelerate action towards that through our environmental improvement plan . it be a shame I be not ask about this by the shadow Minister , but we have restore an area of wildlife habitat the size of Dorset , we have a network of marine protect area , 5 million tree be plant last year , we have 55 - plus landscape — order . it be the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) who ask the question . let ' s not have a personal battle across the Chamber . Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner be home to many incredibly important site for biodiversity , as be many of our London suburb . do my hon . friend agree that the new Riverside park deliver by Harrow council in partnership with the Hatch End Association be a good example of project that support biodiversity in our suburb ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his local area . he be absolutely right ; we be work with a range of local partner and people to put nature at the heart of what we do . I can not commend Harrow council and the Hatch End Association enough for their work — they be put in an apple orchard , wetland and wildflower meadow , which be a superb addition to his already beautiful constituency . environmentalist such as those at Chester zoo be shock to see that the Government have ignore the advice of their own expert and authorise the use of neonicotinoid pesticide for the fourth year in a row . will the Minister tell I how that be line with our national and international obligation to reduce the overall risk from pesticide , and how it reduce our biodiversity loss ? the hon . Lady will know from read the detail of the derogation that those pesticide will be use only if they hit the criterion ; in many case , they never do . Environment Agency Funding what assessment he have make of the adequacy of Environment Agency funding level in the context of recent storm . the Environment Agency ' s budget this year be £ 1 . 96 billion , so around £ 2 billion , which be an increase of more than £ 700 million since 2015 . we closely monitor the quantum and how we ensure we get value for money . follow the 2014 flooding , the current Foreign Secretary — the then Prime Minister — state that money be no object as he agree a £ 100 million plan to protect the Somerset level . ten year on , we be experience devastating flood with increase regularity . what step be the Secretary of State take to protect home in Somerset from flooding and to ensure that floodwater be efficiently and effectively pump away from farmland ? the hon . Lady raise an extremely important point . flooding be devastating to homeowner , business and farmer . that be why in her part of the country we set up the Somerset Rivers Authority partnership and secure an extra £ 80 million of target funding for Somerset . that targeted action be enable the area to be more resilient , but there be further work to do . severe winter storm drive many seabird inland , and most leave after a few day , but not cormorant . the number of cormorant roost permanently inland have rise from 4 , 000 30 year ago to about 65 , 000 now . they be have a huge impact on freshwater silver fish . will the Secretary of State meet I and representative of the Angling Trust , an organisation I use to chair , and other interested party to discuss this issue ? it be always a pleasure to meet my hon . friend . he mention the important issue of seabird . he will have notice yesterday ' s announcement of two major positive step . the no . 1 issue of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds for the last 25 year have be tighten up the overfishing of sand eel . we be close english water to sand eel fishing , which be hugely important to seabird , particularly the puffin . secondly , we announce 13 marine designate area — to put that into context , that be an area equivalent to the size of Suffolk . it be a huge step forward in protect seabird , on which the UK have a lead position globally . hopefully Emma Hardy will get we back on track . I call the shadow Minister . I recently meet with farmer Henry Ward , who show I the extensive and damaging flooding right across his farmland cause by two breach in the river after a storm . the Environment Agency be unable to tell he when it will have the resource to repair those breach . this mean that Henry not only lose all the crop that be flood , but will be unable to plant a new crop in spring . he be not the only farmer to be impact . when will the Government realise that their failure to be decisive and get ahead of the problem of weak defence be cost farmer their livelihood and — order . we only get until 10 o ' clock — to take advantage be just not fair . we must have brief question from the Front Bench . not only have the water Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , be decisive ; he have meet the individual farmer the hon . Lady mention on his farm . we be take action to look at how we can well empower the internal drainage board — [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady chunter from a sedentary position . I actually represent , in the fen , one of the area where internal drainage board be most important . I have work with they for 14 year , and the ministerial team be work actively with they now . Veterinary Medicines : Northern Ireland whether he have have recent discussion with his EU counterpart on access to veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland . arrangement be in place through to the end of 2025 to support the continuity of the supply of veterinary medicine into Northern Ireland . we be clear that we must also ensure a long - term solution to safeguard those supply on an ongoing basis , and we will continue to engage with the EU on all aspect of the operation of the Windsor framework . continue restriction to veterinary medicine remain a very real threat to local agriculture . the British Veterinary Association Northern Ireland Branch president have say that a serious risk be pose to public health and animal welfare if a permanent solution for access to veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland be not find . while the Command Paper signal a welcome focus on this issue , with a work group to deal with it , can the Minister confirm that the Government will act unilaterally by spring if it be not resolve ? we will continue to work with the EU to try to find a long - term solution . of course , we have to find that solution . those negotiation be ongoing , and I do not want to pre - empt any of those discussion from the Dispatch Box , but we do recognise that we need a long - term solution to solve this challenge . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since I last update the House , the Government have be deliver on their plan to back british farmer . we be now see an average increase of 10 % in our environmental farming payment so that farmer can protect our environment and continue to grow the food that we need . recent storm have threaten the livelihood of many farmer , which be why , alongside the wide flood recovery framework , I announce financial support of up to £ 25 , 000 for farmer who have suffer uninsurable damage to their land . yesterday be the one - year anniversary of our environmental improvement plan ; I will not repeat the announcement we touch on early , Mr Speaker , give your steer on brevity . finally , it be worth remind the House that we have pass Second reading of the Pet Abduction Bill , which introduce strict sentence for those who steal dog and cat . pet abduction cause huge trauma to family and to pet , and we be take decisive action to address those crime . flooding have cause repeat damage to home across rural Fylde . last week , I hold a multi - agency meeting with Fylde ' s flood authority , which update I on the work carry out since our initial meeting last July . from blocked culvert to overflow from highway and apparently insufficient drainage on newly build estate , the cause be wide - ranging . at the meeting ' s conclusion , I ask the agency to provide a write breakdown of their action plan . will the Minister meet I to discuss the plan and how his Department can assist ? as my hon . friend know , I be familiar with the Fylde and the issue there . I be always happy to meet he to discuss the issue he mention . I be in contact with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities about new development and some of the wide issue that my hon . friend have be raise . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . the UK end the year as the only rich nation with food price inflation of more than 10 % , and family buy food still face persistent price increase . New Brexit red tape affect european food import pose a further risk of rise inflation in the price of item such as bread , milk and even baby formula . may I again ask the Secretary of State to commit himself to implement food price control if further Brexit red tape lead to the food price hike that be be anticipate ? such be the obsession with Brexit in the SNP that we hear no mention of the impact of the war in Ukraine , no mention of the farmer who be strike across the EU , and no recognition of the huge amount of work on supply chain that be be do by my right hon . friend the Farming Minister . moreover , the hon . Gentleman seem not to have notice the rapid review of label that we be conduct , which be about empower consumer and ensure that the high animal welfare standard that we have in England be well reflect . I be sure the Secretary of State have see report in that about a third of the UK wheat crop have either rot in the ground because of the wet condition , or be not drill at all . supply of spring seed be very tight , with many variety already sell out , and while it be possible for some farmer to use farm - save seed , it be illegal for it to be trade between farm . many farmer do not grow spring crop this year or , indeed , sell their crop at harvest . be there a solution to the problem ? I be very alive to this matter , both because of the very good work that Farmers Weekly have do to highlight it and because my right hon . friend , as Chair of the Select Committee , have discuss it with I and my right hon . friend the Farming Minister , who be also discuss it with plant breeder . we need to look at what we can do constructively , work with they , to deal with what be an entirely legitimate issue . accord to the recent report from the Office for Environmental Protection , the Government be off track when it come to hit environmental target , which include restore our waterway to health . what will the Government do to get back on track ? as be mention early , that report be base on two month of datum within a 25 - year plan , and be therefore somewhat premature in its judgment . this be the first Government in the world to put legally bind target to reverse nature decline into law . yesterday , we mark the first anniversary of those target at Kew , and set out further proposal which have already be touch on . we have also provide international leadership by put nature at the heart of tackle climate change at COP26 , which be strongly reflect at COP28 . the Select Committee have be consistently hold water company and regulator to account for the inexcusable level of sewage be illegally dump in our precious waterway , but more can be do . do my right hon . friend agree that give our plan for water , our record level of investment in monitor and improve water quality , and the unlimited fine impose on water company , while the opposition party have no affordable plan and just throw muck from the sideline , it be this Government who be actually get on with and deal with the issue ? my hon . friend be right in say that we have a plan and that a great deal have be do . he be also right that more can be do , and I reassure the House that I be entirely committed to do it . we will hold the water company to account — that be my absolute intention . Springwater park in my constituency suffer from regular flooding during storm , which cause landslip and movement approach the highway . unfortunately , it fall outside established funding pot from scheme such as Bellwin , so we keep be bounce between the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and DEFRA . will the Minister meet I , along with representative of Bury Council , to see what we can do to address the problem ? the Government be invest in ongoing project in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , include the Radcliffe and Redvales flood risk management scheme , and we be double our investment in flood alleviation scheme from £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion over the next six - year funding round . however , I be of course happy to meet he . my constituency be home to many international food and drink manufacturer , include General Mills and Coca - Cola , both of which be seek to expand their operation here in the UK . will my right hon . friend update the House on the work be do to help such manufacturer to expand and grow for the benefit of our local and national economy ? we have regular meeting with the food and drink sector to ensure that we be in tune with its concern and aspiration . those discussion will continue , and we will continue to support great business such as Coca - Cola in my hon . friend ' s constituency , support british job and generate benefit for the UK economy . town and village such as Maulden and Shefford in my constituency have see their flood risk profile change dramatically over the year , partly owe to housing growth . how will the Minister ensure that funding for the Environment Agency and internal drainage board adequately reflect the way in which that risk have evolve ? improve our flood alleviation scheme and our flood resilience be incredibly important , which be why the Government be recognise the amount of investment we need to put into it . we be double that investment from £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion over the next six - year period . the sort of scheme we be help will assist project across the country to deal with those problem . do my right hon . friend recognise that drift net fishing for bass be more sustainable , targeted and efficient than fish with set net ? will he reconsider the ban , which be introduce as a temporary measure , in order to allow those with an exist bass entitlement to undertake drift net fishing ? bass stock be still recover from poor spawning period and overfishing . the bass fishery management plan commit to review exist commercial access , include gear type such as drift net , which pose a high risk to sensitive specie and bass fish . a careful balance must be strike between increase fishing opportunity and protect vulnerable bass stock , but I assure my right hon . friend that these matter will remain open . since April last year , thousand of home in my constituency have suffer from a fly infestation assume to originate from a recycling plant . will the Minister meet I and the Environment Agency to get this resolve ? I be more than happy to meet the hon . gentleman to try to deal with these issue , because for this Government deal with waste and recycling be incredibly important . if the challenge be have an impact on householder , we need to get on top of this , and I be to meet he to discuss it . Walleys Quarry , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) , be stink again , with monitoring station show high level of hydrogen sulphide and with complaint soar . the site be blight my constituent too , and the Environment Agency now say the owner be no long work towards compliance . it be long past time that the permit be revoke and the company prosecute . will the Minister come to Staffordshire to witness the stink and see the sorry sight for himself ? when he do , can he take the licence away from the one at Cuerden , in Chorley ? I always listen closely to your steer , Mr Speaker . my hon . friend raise an extremely important issue , which I know be very troubling to those affect . the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) be go there in the come day , and I can assure she that this be be discuss and actively follow up . food price inflation remain twice as high as general inflation in the UK , and the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit warn that it could rise even high next year . what assessment have the Secretary of State make , with his colleague , of the impact of soar food price on those we represent ? of course , we continue to monitor food price inflation and work with the sector to reduce it as much as possible . we co - operate with not only farmer , processor and retailer , but all those involve in the sector to try to make sure that we provide a reasonably price food basket for our constituent . the good news be that the cost of our food basket in the UK be low than that find in many part of the European Union . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in response to Question 1 , the Secretary of State attribute another party ' s position on Europe to my party . the Alba party ' s position on Europe be to opt for the European Free Trade Association , thus maintain sovereignty over fishery and farming . I would be grateful if the Secretary of State would correct the record . I call the Secretary of State . such be the confusion within the Scottish National party that I hope the House forgive I for the mistake . I recognise that the hon . Gentleman have change his party and now be an Alba Member . I be happy to correct the record . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I would like your advice on the scheduling of business today . a number of people — sorry , but that be not relevant to the question we have just have . the only way the hon . Gentleman can raise that as a point of order be by do it after we have do all the question . we now have question to the Attorney General . Attorney General the Attorney General be ask — Fraud and Economic Crime : prosecution what step she be take to help ensure effective prosecution of perpetrator of fraud and economic crime . what step she be take to help ensure effective prosecution of perpetrator of fraud and economic crime . what recent step her Department have take to increase prosecution rate for fraud and economic crime . the Crown Prosecution Service and the Serious Fraud Office play a crucial role in bring economic criminal to justice . indeed , this month the SFO charge two company director with fraud in relation to a car lease scheme into which hundred of british saver pay about £ 88 million . the Horizon Post Office scandal have appal the nation . hundred of sub - postmaster be wrongly prosecute and convict , and many be jail , although they be entirely innocent of any fraud . on the other hand , covid - 19 fraud be know and real . estimate put it as high £ 16 billion , yet we have not claw back a fraction of what have be steal . why be the innocent leave to rot for so long , while the guilty go free to enjoy the fruit of their covid crime ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right about the appalling miscarriage of justice ; I agree entirely with everything she say about Horizon and the Post Office . as she know , step be be take to address that and work be ongoing . on covid crime , the Attorney General and I meet regularly with the Serious Fraud Office and the Crown Prosecution Service to press for action on whatever be the press issue of the day . the CPS have charge a number of individual in relation to precisely the fraud activity she refer to . be the Solicitor General aware that the Home Affairs Committee be currently look at the whole issue of fraud and find a huge problem with everything from romance fraud to fraud financing terrorism ? clearly , there be an urgent need for much well join - up work between agency and information sharing in this country , as well as on the international front . what discussion and experience have he have on which nation prosecute fraud more effectively than we do in this country ? my hon . friend raise an excellent point . I commend he for his work on the Home Affairs Committee and look forward to the result of that work , which we will consider carefully . the Attorney General and I meet regularly with the SFO and the CPS to assess good practice and to see where lesson may be learn , both internally and from abroad . intelligence sharing go on between the respective agency in any event , and we will look at what lesson can be learn from good practice here and abroad to take forward the point he raise . in the past five year , law enforcement agency , include the CPS proceed of crime unit , have confiscate £ 568 million from criminal . those agency get to keep a tiny percentage of recovered asset and virtually no fine to help they continue their work . why be the Government enfeeble the very organisation it rely on to win the fight against economic crime ? why will they not adopt Labour ' s invest - to - save model of enforcement ? I commend the work of the enforcement agency , which have rightly crack down on the fraudulent activity the hon . Gentleman refer to . he be right that the Government have tirelessly pursue criminal with a view to recoup money , to prevent those criminal from benefit from their ill - get gain . among a number of positive outcome have be £ 105 million be return to victim . I thank the Solicitor General for provide detail about what be happen , but , since the pandemic , fraud have cost the public purse more than £ 21 billion , much of that relate to the Government ' s own scheme . public resentment be understandable , because , at the same time , prosecution for fraud and money laundering have go down by more than 50 % since 2010 . do the Solicitor General agree that the time have come for more action and that we should seriously consider an economic crime fighting fund to reinvest seize asset and profit into improve law enforcement against fraud ? the hon . Lady be right that this be matter of huge public concern , and understandably so . the Government work very hard during the pandemic to ensure that support be provide , but clearly where people have take advantage of a system , that must be pursue . that be why we be look at the fraud strategy , for example , and the economic crime plan part 2 . we will continue to drive forward to see what further action can be take . every day , old and vulnerable people be prey upon by fraudster and scammer , be it online , by phone or on the doorstep . will my hon . friend reassure my constituent and the country that the Conservative Government , the police and the criminal justice system will do all they can to bring those immoral criminal to justice ? yes , I can . my hon . friend be right to draw attention to this , as people be take advantage of be one of the great issue of our age . it happen to member of society of all kind , but particularly to those who be elderly and vulnerable . work continue on a number of sector charter , which have be successful in bring forward positive outcome . for example , 870 million scam text have be block . we have take forward work on the Online Safety Act 2023 , as well as the charter I refer to , but I assure my hon . friend we will continue to see what more can be do . I call the shadow Minister . it be two year since the former anti - fraud Minister , Lord Agnew , resign in embarrassment over the Government ' s oversight of covid business loan scheme , describe it as " nothing less than woeful " . can the Solicitor General tell we , in the past two year , how much of the miss billion , seemingly write off by the Prime Minister as Chancellor , have be recover and what the Government be do now to chase down the covid crook ? the hon . Gentleman be right to draw attention to this . the public quite rightly expect the money that the Government advance in good faith to help those who be challenge during the pandemic not to be the victim of fraudulent activity . intelligence sharing go on between the Serious Fraud Office , which , as he know , prosecute the most serious case , and the Crown Prosecution Service , which have already charge a number of individual . we will continue to do that both from our perspective and with the law enforcement agency to make sure that the crook to whom he refer be pursue . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) bill : ECHR what recent assessment she have make of the compatibility of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill with the european convention on human right . I would like to assure the House that the Government respect their international obligation . the Law officer convention prevent I from disclose outside Government whether I have give advice or even what the context of any such advice might be . the Bill to which the hon . Gentleman refer be currently in the other place , and will , I be sure , be discuss very fully there . just this week , we hear medium report that four Rwandans have be grant refugee status in the UK in the past four month , cite well - found fear of persecution . at the same time , the Government would like we to accept that Rwanda be a safe country , despite the Home Office accept that those individual face a real threat of persecution . can the Attorney General tell we how we can send asylum seeker to Rwanda under those circumstance ? we be ask Parliament to look at the matter afresh — not just to look at the fact as they be before the Supreme Court , but to look at new circumstance . evidence be publish on 11 January to assist Parliament in those deliberation . we have assurance from the Government of Rwanda that the implementation of all measure within the treaty will be expedite , and we will ratify the treaty when we be ready to do so . I call the SNP spokesperson . journalist and blogger who criticise the Government be arrest , threaten and put on trial , with allegation of torture , disappearance and suspicious death . those be just some of the issue that Human Rights Watch and Amnesty have report on in Rwanda . when ask Parliament to disregard establish legal principle such as the burden of proof and the need for evidence , be the Attorney General genuinely comfortable in pass the Rwanda Bill ? it be constitutionally proper for Parliament to legislate in response to a decision of the Supreme Court . we do it all the time in the finance and tax space . Lord Reed be careful to point out to the Constitution Committee in the other House that we do it follow the Burmah oil case in the War Damage Act 1965 . in this case , I urge the hon . Lady to look hard at the evidence that the Government put before the House on 11 January . if the Bill pass , everyone must treat Rwanda as generally safe for the transfer of individual under the treaty . violence against Women and girl : prosecution what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case relate to violence against woman and girl . we be steadily increase the number of rape case send to the Crown court . we be prepare to launch a joint justice plan , which will transform how the police and the Crown Prosecution Service investigate and prosecute domestic abuse case . I will welcome my friend Andriy Kostin , the Ukrainian Prosecutor General , who be not quite here yet because his plane have not arrive , in my office after question . the relevance of that be that a team of UK expert be support his office to investigate and prosecute case of conflict - relate sexual violence in Ukraine . last July , the then Solicitor General , the hon . and learn Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , tell the House , in a write answer to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) : " a new VAWG strategy for 2023 - 2025 be be develop for publication later this year . " that year have come and go , as have that Solicitor General , so can the Attorney General tell we the status of the strategy and its content , who the Government be consult , and when it will be publish ? the hon . Lady take a long - term interest in these affair , and she I have discuss they for many year . I reassure she that a great deal of work have be do . the work in the rape sphere , which I reference early , be very commendable . after have a really difficult time in prosecute rape for many year , we be back up to 2016 level , and indeed be exceed they . the joint justice plan , which will build on the rape work in the domestic abuse sphere , will be ready very shortly — we be say " in the spring " , but I think she will have to wait only a few week . the Home Affairs Committee carry out an inquiry into the investigation and prosecution of rape . one of our very clear recommendation be that police force need to have specialist unit to investigate rape for case to proceed to the CPS , and hopefully to court . we know that we get well decision making and communication with victim and the CPS if we have those specialist officer . be the Attorney General as surprised as I be that not all police force have those specialist unit to deal with rape and sexual assault ? the right hon . Lady , who do sterling work on the Home Affairs Committee , know that the police be not directly under my supervision , but I be proud to talk about the very close co - operation between the police and CPS specialist in this field , which have really help , together with some great granularity and push on the statistic to drive up rape prosecution . she will be glad to know that in her area of Yorkshire and Humberside the number of suspect charge with rape have increase significantly over the last year . my Newton Aycliffe constituent Zoey McGill suffer from appal knife crime when her son Jack Woodley be kill in 2021 . she be now suffer again , as one of the perpetrator be use social medium from custody to glorify himself . do the Attorney General agree that such action should be prosecute , and that the consequence should be publicise to ensure that they become a deterrent against other glorify themselves from our prison ? my hon . friend highlight a horrific case . that be why it be so important that we crack down on mobile phone use , and indeed mobile phone existence , within prison . the Government have put in £ 100 million to ensure that prison have airport - style security , to ensure that it be much more difficult for phone to get in . incident such as he raise be very serious , and I commend he for do so , as well as his constituent Zoey and the Northern Echo , which I understand have be campaign on the issue . prosecution of Fraud : Covid - 19 how many prosecution have be bring by the Serious Fraud Office for case of fraud connect with covid - 19 ( a ) contract and ( b ) financial support scheme . the Serious Fraud Office have bring no prosecution for case of fraud connect with covid - 19 . the SFO deal only with the most complex and serious economic crime , so the vast majority of such case would not fall within its remit . the SFO work closely with other law enforcement agency to ensure that intelligence be share and the investigation be handle by the most appropriate agency . it be staggering to hear the Solicitor General refer to this as not serious , or imply that it be not serious . in 2023 , the level of fraud report by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs in two covid - 19 financial support scheme sit between £ 3 . 3 billion and £ 7 . 3 billion , with less than £ 1 billion be recover . consider that the UK Government have already write off an alarming £ 8 . 7 billion that they spend on protective equipment buy during the pandemic , will he commit to routinely publish account include the number of prosecution and the cost of recovery for covid - 19 contract and support scheme ? the hon . Gentleman misunderstand my point : the SFO deal with the most complex scheme . not for a second would I have suggest that any such fraud be not serious — of course it be — but the vast majority of the crime to which he allude would be deal with by the CPS . indeed , the CPS have charge a number of individual with precisely those sort of crime . director of Public Prosecutions : priority what recent discussion she have have with the Director of Public Prosecutions on his priority for the Crown Prosecution Service . I have regular meeting with the Director of Public Prosecutions . his priority align closely with those of the Government — namely , tackle delay , combat violence against woman and girl , enhance our work with victim and drive improvement across the system . it appear that almost every week on our street we see hate - fill demonstration with antisemitism rife , yet no action seem to be take . the end result be that my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) have announce his decision to leave this place because of antisemitism and the threat against his person . will my right hon . and learn Friend the Attorney General take up the matter with the CPS , to ensure that that be the last such case and that antisemitism be prosecute properly in the way it should be ? my hon . friend raise an important and serious matter . I reassure he that I have be work closely with the CPS , which in turn be extremely close to the police , to deal with these very significant issue . the CPS have be embed in the control room during the most serious of the marche that have take place . I also reassure my hon . friend that a large number of prosecution have already start . Most of the one that have come to conclusion be necessarily guilty plea , because prosecution take time , but we all see , sadly , a large uptick in that horrible crime after 7 October last year , and we be just start to get to the phase when trial be begin where people have not plead guilty . I hope he will take some reassurance from my answer and that he will come and see I so that I can talk he through some of the work we be do . do the Attorney General agree that a key priority for the CPS must be fix the flawed way that joint enterprise law be use , and do she agree that no one should ever be convict of a crime that they make no significant contribution to ? I know the hon . Lady be a long - time campaigner on joint enterprise , and I also know that the Lord Chancellor , my dear friend in this place , have also consider such matter very carefully . government : rule of Law what recent step she have take with Cabinet colleague to ensure the rule of law be uphold within Government . I have always be clear that the rule of law be fundamental to our constitution , and it be the duty of the Law officer to uphold it . as I emphasise in my speech at the Institute for Government last summer and in my appearance before the House of Lords Constitution Committee , I take that duty very seriously indeed . I engage not only with colleague across Government but with student and other young people , to ensure that the rule of law be protect not just now but for generation to come . the Horizon scandal have raise many important legal question , range from the reliance on flawed evidence to the slow pace of the justice system in correct miscarriage of justice . will the Attorney General now address the implication for the power of organisation such as the Post Office to pursue private prosecution , and in particular what oversight the Crown Prosecution Service can or should have over the use of those power ? I thank the hon . Lady for her serious question and would like she to rest assure that these matter be be consider very carefully within Government . the immediate priority be to take bold and novel action to right , in so far as we can , the wrong that have come about through the Horizon scandal , but a slow - timed but nevertheless urgent piece of work be to make sure that private prosecution be sufficiently scrutinise and inspect in future . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that the leaking of Law Officer advice for political or any other purpose be not only a breach of the very important Law officer ’ convention respect the confidentiality of legal advice , but damage to the public interest and contrary to the rule of law ? my right hon . and learn Friend make a characteristically significant intervention . have serve as both Solicitor General and Attorney General , he will know very well the importance of the Law officer ’ convention to the working of Government . legal professional privilege generally be a very important construct and something on which the client relationship rely . in Government it be , if anything , even more significant , and when Law officer ' advice be leak it have a chilling effect on our ability to provide free , frank and honest advice to the rest of Government . that be something I wholeheartedly deplore , and I agree with everything my right hon . and learn Friend say . I call the shadow Attorney General . we have all read with deep concern last week ' s interim ruling from the International Court of Justice regard the situation in Gaza , and Labour be absolutely clear that Hamas must release all remain hostage immediately , that Israel must comply with the ICJ ' s order in full , that the judgment of the Court must be treat with respect , and that all party must comply with international law as part of an immediate humanitarian truce and a sustainable ceasefire . I ask the Attorney General , very simply : do she agree with I on all those point ; and be it the official position of the Government to accept the authority of the Court in this matter and , even more importantly , to urge Israel also to accept the authority of the Court and to implement its order in full as a matter of urgency ? the right hon . Lady be right to call for international humanitarian law to be respect and civilian to be protect in Gaza , and I join she in that call . we be deeply concerned about the impact of what be happen on the civilian population in Gaza ; too many have be kill , and we want to see Israel take great care to limit its operation to military target . we regularly review Israel ' s commitment to IHL , and I believe that we in this House all call for an immediate pause that will allow aid to get in and hostage to come out . Afghan Relocations : Special Forces ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on afghan relocation and assistance policy eligibility for afghan special force . I be grateful for the opportunity to update the House on development relate to the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme , and to answer the specific question raise by the hon . gentleman in relation to former member of commando force 333 and afghan territorial force 444 . many colleague across the House be passionate advocate for applicant to the ARAP scheme — whether they serve shoulder to shoulder with they in Afghanistan , or represent applicant and their family member who be resident in their constituency . we owe a debt of gratitude to those brave individual who serve for , with , or alongside our armed force in support of the UK mission in Afghanistan . defence be determined to honour the commitment we make under the ARAP scheme , which be why we have robust check in place and regularly review process and procedure . although many former member of the afghan specialist unit have be find eligible under ARAP and safely relocate to the UK with their family , a recent review of process around eligibility decision demonstrate instance of inconsistent application of the ARAP criterion in certain case . the issue relate to a tranche of application from former member of afghan specialist unit , include member of CF 333 and ATF 444 — know as the Triples . have identify this issue through internal process , we must now take necessary step to ensure that the criterion be apply appropriately to all those individual . as such , I can confirm that the Ministry of Defence will undertake a reassessment of all eligibility decision make for application with credible claim of link to the afghan specialist unit . the reassessment will be do by a team independent of the one that make the initial eligibility decision on the application . the team will review each case thoroughly and individually . a write ministerial statement to that effect be table this morning , and I commend it to colleague . a further " dear colleague " letter will follow by close of business tomorrow . it be the case , however , that ARAP application from this cohort present a unique set of challenge for eligibility decision making . some serve in their unit more than two decade ago , and some while the afghan state apparatus be still in its infancy or yet to come into existence all together . it be also the case that they report directly into the Government of Afghanistan , mean that we do not hold comprehensive employment or payment record in the same way as we do for other applicant . I fully understand the depth of feeling that ARAP evoke across this place and beyond . I thank member from across the House for their ongoing advocacy and support for ARAP . we have that same depth of feeling in the MOD and in Government , and we will now work quickly to make sure that the decision be review , and change if that be necessary . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . the Triples afghan special force , train and fund by the UK , be some of the top target for Taliban reprisal . around 200 Triples face imminent deportation from Pakistan to Afghanistan , and at least six member of the Triples be report to have be murder by the Taliban since the withdrawal from Kabul . minister have allow medium speculation to build for almost a week before set out to Parliament today the Government ' s plan to u - turn and look again at the application . the Minister highlight inconsistency in process the application — failure , flaw . how be that allow to happen on his watch ? how long will the review take , and what new information will be factor in ? tragically , today ' s decision could be too late for many . do the Minister know how many of the Triples who be wrongly deny support have already be deport to Afghanistan , torture or kill ? what conversation have he have with Pakistan to halt deportation of those who could now be grant sanctuary ? there be no time to waste . the least the Triples deserve be clarity over ARAP policy , but for month a public spat have play out between the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs and the Minister for Armed Forces . we should all remember that the people who matter here be those Afghans who have be leave in limbo , fear for their life and their future . that be why clarity matter . Britain ' s moral duty to assist Afghans be feel most fiercely by those in the UK force who serve alongside they , many of whom sit on both side of the House . british personnel who have offer reference to former Triples say that they be never even contact by the Ministry of Defence . many of their ARAP application be deny . will such basic error happen again , or will that be review properly ? the british public do not understand why afghan special force personnel who serve and fight alongside our troop and who be eligible for safety have not yet receive sanctuary here . will the Minister now sort this out ? I know that the hon . Gentleman , who have be advocate for some case and be as passionate about the matter as anybody , will feel aggrieved , as will many colleague around the House . the responsibility of any Minister be to own any failure of process that happen in their Department , and I accept that responsibility . the reality be that these be very difficult decision to make . the hon . Gentleman say that the Triples be fund by the UK Government . that be not entirely accurate ; they be fund as a donor alongside many other donor , into the Government of Afghanistan , who fund the unit . as he will well know from colleague on his own Benches who command unit that work closely with the Triples , top - up payment be make in order to generate loyalty and , frankly , to avoid the Triples be poach by other coalition partner , which have similar force of their own . the record of those top - up payment be very ad hoc . I take my responsibility for accuracy to the House seriously , and I can tell the hon . gentleman in all seriousness that we have look for employment record and none of those ad hoc record of additional payment be available to we . we have speak to colleague who have experience of these matter in the House and beyond , to ask for any record that they have , but even then a lot of the record produce be those that be put together by charity advocate for the Triples , rather than contemporary record of those top - up payment . the reality be that whatever the challenge have be , some decision be make in an inconsistent way . that be why they must be review . we will aim to get the review do as quickly as possible — we anticipate that it will take around 12 week . before that , we need to put in place the people who will do the review , who will be independent of everything that have go before . in the first instance , it will be a review of the robustness of the decision themselves , and where it find that decision be not robust , we will , of course , seek new information both from the applicant and from colleague in the House who have advocate for they . the shadow Minister make some good point about what this mean for people who be in Pakistan . it be impossible to say who , of those who be not already in the pipeline as approve applicant , have be deport . we do not track that , so I can not answer his specific question but , of course , we will alert the Government of Pakistan to those who be include within the review , so that they can enjoy the same protection from deportation as those who have already be approve and be await their onward move to the UK . the shadow Minister necessarily point to the politic and the alleged disagreement among Conservative Members — that be the nature of his role — but I be simply not motivate by such thing . the reality be that we be try our good to bring as many people to the UK from Afghanistan as possible . some decision be relatively straightforward , because we hold the employment record , but other be far more complicated . although there have undoubtedly be some decision that be not robust and need to be review , I put on record that the people involve in make those decision , across the MOD , have be work their hard and do their good . I stand up for their service and for what they have do , and I take responsibility for their shortcoming . I have be approach by people who be involve in train these soldier — 333 , 444 and BOST 170 — and they tell I that they be the most loyal , brave and most effective soldier who be operate in Afghanistan . as a result , they be the soldier the Taliban fear the most , which I guess be why the Taliban have be execute they in front of their family whenever they catch they . the Minister rightly say that we owe they a debt of gratitude , but this be more than that . it be a debt of honour . can we ensure that , both in our administration and in our relationship with Pakistan , we do everything to deliver on that debt of honour as quickly as possible ? we certainly will . it be important to mention that the Government of Pakistan have often be the subject of question in relation to ARAP over the past year or so . in my experience , they have be incredibly co - operative . we be hugely grateful to they for that . the limit on the speed of flow be not any problem with the Government of Pakistan , but the challenge of get people out of Afghanistan . the reality be that , no matter how many decision we review and no matter how many additional people we add as eligible for the scheme , there be a limit to how fast we can move people over the border into Pakistan . that will take time . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , for secure this urgent question . the Department ' s late number show that 11 , 684 people have be grant entry to the UK , and that 6 , 377 have be give indefinite leave . what have happen to the remain individual ? be they still wait for a decision ? have any be eject ? as other have say , those who be target by the Taliban can not wait . the Minister indicate to the shadow Minister that we be about to have discussion with Pakistan , but what discussion have already take place ? we be all concerned that Pakistan be eject people . finally , the fear of persecution due to religion or political belief be a qualifying factor under the refugee convention . what consideration have the MOD give to the compatibility of that qualifying factor with the ARAP scheme ? to take the hon . Gentleman ' s last point first , the MOD be not consider asylum claim , which be a separate matter for the Home Office . the MOD be consider the case of people who claim to have serve alongside UK armed force . although I do not doubt the seriousness of the right to asylum , the MOD make no decision in that regard . we have no responsibility for that part of immigration policy . turn to indefinite leave to remain , I will need to write to the hon . gentleman with the detail , because my understanding of the immigration status of those approve to come to the UK under ARAP be that they have it immediately : they be effectively citizen , in that they have the right to immediately come here , live and work . there be no further immigration phase require after their arrival , because the approval of their visa to come afford they all the right that indefinite leave afford they in the first place . however , I will write to the hon . Gentleman to confirm that my understanding be correct and that he have not pick up something that I be not aware of . on Pakistan , I refer the hon . gentleman to my early answer . I genuinely could not wish for well engagement from the Pakistan Government with our high commissioner in Islamabad , and I be grateful to the pakistani high commissioner to London , who have similarly make himself available to I whenever I have need to speak to he . the issue with people in Pakistan be challenge : Pakistan have a very large cohort of people whom the Pakistan Government regard as illegal migrant and whom they be seek to deal with . that be their sovereign choice as a nation , and it be not for we to tell they that they must not . however , where we have be able to tell they that people be part of our scheme , those people have be protect from deportation . for that , we be very grateful indeed . far to the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , we clearly owe these individual a debt of honour . what assessment have the Minister make of the number of people who be affect and how many family there be ? what be the Ministry of Defence do to reach out to the family of these brave man and woman to ensure they can come here , as they should have the right to do ? we think that about 2 , 000 decision need to be look at again . some of those will be entirely the right decision — they just be not write up and document particularly well — so it be difficult to say at this moment how many of the case that we will review will require further scrutiny . what I can say to my hon . friend be that once we have carry out that initial review of the robustness of the decision that be take , we will notify people if their case be up for review and additional information might be require . while I will set out the detail of that process in the " dear colleague " letter that will follow , my expectation be that we will also reach out at that point to any colleague in the House who have advocate for that case , so that they be aware that it be up for review and can similarly put forward whatever evidence they have . I be grateful to the Minister for meet with I recently to discuss this matter , but give the unique nature of the relationship between UK force and the Triples , and give the commitment that have be make previously , it be beyond bewilder that we have not get to this point soon . the Minister speak about instance of inconsistent application of ARAP criterion in certain case , and have say that he take responsibility for that , but can he give an assurance today that he will work at pace to put it right , and what do he think it will mean for our international reputation ? will people trust we in the future ? I be grateful for the constructive engagement that the hon . Gentleman have have with the Department ever since the evacuation from Kabul . our meeting the other day be most instructive , and much of what he say cause we to reflect in the way that we have do . he should take much credit for that . we be work at pace — the hon . Gentleman have my assurance that we will continue to do so , but we have be do so all along . this be an incredibly difficult process that be consume ever large amount of horsepower within the Department , and rightly so , because we owe these people a debt . however , as have come up previously at Defence question , we must be careful not to set the expectation among our partner force that everywhere that the UK armed force operate , now and in the future , there will be an immigration angle to such partnering . I accept that there be reputational damage to the MOD and that have an effect on my reputation , too — that be right ; that be ministerial accountability — but I push back gently against the idea that it will have an impact on the willingness of partner force to work with we . I do not think it be helpful if partner force think the reward for work with we be a visa : that do not work at all . I appreciate the Minister ' s comment and his commitment today , but it be more than two year since the chaos of the collapse of the operation in Afghanistan and this surely have come much too late . there be still many people — not just the Triples , but interpreter and people who work alongside the force — trap in country that be hostile and threaten they with transportation back to Afghanistan . can he commit today to ensure , with some urgency , that all case be look at quickly and speedily , and that we get as many people to safety as possible ? the case be be look at urgently . in the wide ARAP cohort that the hon . Member describe , that process have be much easy . some time ago , I direct the excellent official who work on this , instead of work through the pile of application , to go to the employment record we hold for interpreter and other locally employ civilian , and to focus on find they in the pile of application rather than go through all the application that may be spurious or less credible . we will do so as quickly as we can , but it take time , and even once eligibility decision have be take , if people be undocumented , and many of the ARAP cohort be , it be incredibly challenging to get they out of Afghanistan and into a safe country , and that limit our rate of flow enormously . on those in other third country , we do all that we can through the excellent staff in our embassy and high commission to facilitate their movement out of those country . however , there be some country with whom we have quite challenging diplomatic relationship , particularly at the moment , and that make it particularly difficult . that do not mean that we do not keep try , and I be very grateful to our ambassador and high commissioner for their effort , but , fundamentally , we can not tell sovereign country what to do . back in September , the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs tell this House that about 1 , 000 Afghans be access homelessness support , and that be after the Government have evict 8 , 000 Afghans , include ARAP personnel , from UK hotel . could the Minister confirm that there be still 1 , 000 Afghans access homelessness support ? I will need to write to the hon . member on that . due to the high number of former afghani soldier whose life be at risk as long as they remain in Afghanistan , what conversation have the Minister have with Cabinet colleague on the possibility of additional safe route to the United Kingdom ? these thing be discuss regularly , as the hon . Gentleman would imagine . there be an additional route to the United Kingdom in the afghan citizen resettlement scheme . indeed , our ARAP and ACRS offer cover all afghan citizen who serve alongside our armed force or work alongside our diplomatic mission — or who be simply prominent in Afghan Government and society , and for whom we therefore feel that relocation be necessary for their protection — up to a point . ARAP and acr be match , not quite in their generosity but in their scope , by scheme in many other country that be a part of the NATO force in Afghanistan and / or the wide donor community for Afghanistan , so the opportunity for people to leave Afghanistan and resettle elsewhere be enormous . we should be proud of the UK scheme , which , today ' s announcement notwithstanding , be incredibly generous . we be move at the good pace we can to move people out of a country where that be very difficult . I think the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) could not have put it well when he talk about the debt of honour we owe all those who serve with our armed force in Afghanistan . I be sure that member on all side of the House will be appal at the fact that , year later , the situation be still not completely resolve . the Minister rightly highlight the challenge pose by lack of documentation in some case , but give that , for those individual , obtain documentation will often mean apply to a Taliban - control passport office , will the Minister say how the Government be ensure that those affect have a route to get the necessary documentation in a safe and efficient manner ? no , I be not go to share that detail with the House , because it be in absolutely nobody ' s interest for the Taliban to know how we be do that . I call Jim Shannon . I think happy birthday be in order , Madam Deputy Speaker . if you be like I , you do not count the year , you just make the year count . I thank the Minister for his very positive answer . I ask this question simply because I meet a gentleman in Pakistan about 12 month ago on this issue . he work for the british Army alongside those in the special force , so it be wonderful news that special force in Afghanistan will have their application review . I wholly welcome that but want yet again to highlight the need to do the right thing by other as well as those who put their life on the line in Afghanistan as part of the rebuilding effort and who have find themselves hide away , out of sight — in Pakistan , for example — because they be not yet safe . I ask the Minister for consideration to be give to review of application for interpreter and those who provide sustained assistance to our force and who live life in darkness and in fear . as I say in response to early question , the interpreter and those who work alongside we in a support function be much easy to find within the pilot application , because we have the employment record and be therefore able to confirm their service easily . if the hon . Gentleman would like to write to I about the specific case raise with he , I will endeavour to get he answer as quickly as I can . business of the House 11 . 1 be to ask the Leader of the House if she will give we the forthcoming business . the business for the week commence 5 February will include : Monday 5 February — remain stage of the Finance Bill . Tuesday 6 February — opposition day ( 4th allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Wednesday 7 February — motion relate to the police grant and local government finance report . Thursday 8 February — general debate on National HIV Testing Week , follow by a general debate on the management culture of the Post Office . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the February recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 8 February and return on Monday 19 February . may I wish you a very happy birthday as well , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I start by express our profound regret that the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) have decide to step down due to fear for his safety and that of his family . the recent attack on his office be horrific . that any Member be force from office due to intimidation , threat and fear be an attack on all of we and what we represent . it be unacceptable and we must do more to protect our freedom and democracy . we stand together . yesterday , Alison Phillips be " bang out " of the newsroom in her last day as editor of the Daily Mirror . Alison break the mould for female journalist , and she lead a number of campaign that have a direct effect on this place . she leave a proud legacy . last week I ask the Leader of the House about the Procedure Committee report on scrutiny of Lords Secretaries of State . have she now digest it , and when will she bring forward a motion to make it happen ? I will chalk it up as a victory that , after many week of ask , Foreign Office Ministers finally come forward with a statement this week on the ongoing conflict in Gaza and Israel . will the Leader of the House ensure that that happen more often , with the Foreign Secretary himself take question ? the situation demand it . the International Court of Justice interim ruling be deeply significant and make for difficult reading . we be clear that Israel must comply with the order in the ruling in full , and that Hamas must release all the hostage immediately . international law must be uphold and the independence of international court respect , with all side hold accountable for their action . twenty - five thousand innocent people be dead , include thousand of woman and child , and 85 % of the population of Gaza have be displace and million face the risk of famine . we can not let innocent Palestinians pay the price . we must redouble our effort for a sustainable ceasefire and a political process for a two - state solution . on that , I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s willingness to recognise the state of Palestine , which be a policy we have long support . we hear this morning that Secretary of State Blinken be move the US in that direction , too . as the Leader of the opposition say , it be an " inalienable right of the palestinian people " . can the Leader of the House clarify , as there be some confusion , the Government ' s policy on the recognition of Palestine ? talk of Secretaries of State be accountable , perhaps the Leader of the House can clear up some of the creative use of language by the Home Secretary in his appearance before the Home Affairs Committee yesterday . apparently , we no long have a backlog of asylum claim ; it be just " a queue " of 94 , 000 applicant — some queue , but definitely not a backlog . the 33 , 000 asylum seeker who have go miss apparently be not miss , but have simply " disengage " . do the Leader of the House recognise that the Government have lose control of the asylum system and that smoke and mirror can not hide the truth ? the Business Secretary be not exactly forthcoming with the truth this week either . on Monday , she tell this House that negotiation with Canada to save british car import be " ongoing " , but now we learn that she walk out of those discussion and the entire issue be on pause . do the Leader of the House want to take this opportunity to correct the record ? finally , I can not let business question go by without refer to the Leader of the House ' s rather bizarre , unprompte , over the top , glow tribute to the Prime Minister in last week ' s business question . I feel the lady do protest too much . it be as if she be at " the Traitors " roundtable , desperately want everyone to believe she really be a faithful . it seem that the traitor sit among they still , secretly plan their next kill . the evil plotter be try to avoid banishment so they can win the prize . can she reveal herself today , because we all want to know ? perhaps some of her colleague can , too , or perhaps they should do we all a favour , cut straight to the endgame and let the public decide . quite honestly , much as I love " the Traitors " , this be not a tv show , and their antic have real - life consequence . as much as we be all sick of watch it , unfortunately , there be no off - switch . from the Government Benches , I say happy birthday to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . this week I meet Ashley , the cousin of 19 - year - old hostage Agam Berger . she be the girl that many member will have see in video footage , play her violin in happy time . she volunteer with special educational need child , and be actively involve in work towards a peaceful solution in her region . I thank the shadow Leader of the House for her remark about the hostage and all member who be work hard to keep the spotlight on these people and their family . I hope that they will all be home soon . I also thank the hon . Lady for her remark about my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , who have say that he be go to stand down because of his safety and the wellbeing of his family . such attack on elect member be attack on democracy itself . I know that many hon . and right hon . member and their family be endure such threat . we condemn such action and those who encourage , incite and excuse they . I thank the hon . Lady for her cross - party support on that matter . I join the hon . Lady in pay tribute to Alison , who be " bang out " of the newsroom . I also thank her colleague who post that on social medium . I think it send a very positive message for woman in particular who want to work in that sector . the hon . Lady ask about the Procedure Committee , and I again thank the Committee for its report on hold to account the Foreign Secretary on a range of issue . she will know that the recommendation in part rely on the consent of their noble Lords , and I be keen to hear the view of their Procedure Committee on some of the recommendation that our Procedure Committee have make . since the Foreign Secretary be appoint , there have be 41 sit day , and in that time Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Ministers , include the Foreign Secretary , have make 71 appearance in Parliament , respond to parliamentary question and in Select Committees . on Gaza , the hon . Lady raise some serious issue . she will know — the Minister for Armed Forces be just at the Dispatch Box — that the Government take compliance with international humanitarian law extremely seriously . we monitor that with our partner . she will know that , as we can see from previous conflict , the Israel Defence Forces also produce report after the event . all of that be subject to a great deal of scrutiny , but I will certainly ensure that the Foreign Secretary have hear her concern . the hon . Lady talk about the Home Secretary . she will know — indeed , many Opposition Members have acknowledge — that the plan for end small boat crossing and ensure that we be speed up processing in the Home Office be work . I think the late figure show that the Home Secretary have speed up processing in his Department by 250 % . she will know that crossing be down by substantial amount — I think now just shy of 40 % — and return be up , which be all to be welcome . that have be help in great part by the new legislation that the Government have introduce . I be sorry that right hon . and hon . member on the Opposition Benches have not be able to support that . that bring I to the final topic that the hon . Lady raise . I will make the case that we be faithfuls on the Government side . we have be faithfuls in our obligation to the british public in strengthen our border . we have bring forward legislation which the opposition have vote against — over 70 time on one recent Bill . we have be faithful to the british public in our promise . we have be faithful to they in deliver on their decision to leave the EU , for which we have a landmark anniversary this week . whatever way people vote in that referendum , we stick with that democratic result — we do not try to reverse it or campaign for a second referendum — and what the british people want to know be that we be on the right trajectory now . since we leave the EU , we have grow fast than many nation , include Germany , Italy and Japan . our export service be up at a record high . for good and service , we be rise through the global ranking — we be up a place since last year . we have overtake France on manufacturing , and we have simplify tariff on thousand of good and remove hundred of trade barrier . we have be through tough time , but whether it be our plan to level up community such as Teesside , which Labour member seem to be object to , or maximise our new - find freedom to control our destiny and our border , or open up more opportunity for the wealth of talent and creativity of our citizen , our plan for Britain be work . Britain be on the right course . we have be faithful to our promise to the british people . Labour have not , and it would turn we back on the EU , union reform , tax hike and much more . further business will be announce in the usual way . I call Wendy Morton . good wish on your birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . last week be Neighbourhood Policing Week . I be able to join the local Aldridge and Brownhills neighbourhood team out in the community . will my right hon . friend join I in thank our local team for all they do ? do she agree that central to neighbourhood policing be neighbourhood police hub ? that be why I continue to campaign against the propose closure of Aldridge police station — and with only a few month leave of the west midland police and crime commissioner role , there should be a moratorium on any closure . I congratulate my right hon . friend on get her concern on the record . since 2010 , our community have become safe on roughly the same resource . take out online fraud , we have , in effect , halve crime : violent crime be down 51 % ; neighbourhood crime , include robbery and theft , be down 48 % . I shall ensure that the Home Secretary have hear what she have say . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . meal do naidheachd , Madam Deputy Speaker . we see a soft side to the Leader of the House last week . " the Prime Minister be a great dad " , she loyally read out from No . 10 ' s script . " he give a lot to charity " , she whisper . then , right on cue , normal service resume and she be thunder fury at the Scots for not vote Tory . she ask I a question that get quite a response in Scotland : " why do you think we Tory ' rotter ' " — her word , not mine — " be so desperate to keep Scotland in the Union ? " why , indeed ? it be generally though that Conservatives act in their own self - interest . anyway , scot have be tot up all the great thing about be in the UK : the gift of Brexit make we poorer fast than even the bad forecast predict ; 14 year of grind , endless austerity ; and a crippling debt burden of more than 100 % of gdp , just for starter . however , the Leader of the House be not alone in her desperation to keep Scotland lash tight to Westminster . she will remember see a secret document present to the Cabinet in July 2020 by her colleague the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . the existence of that document be reveal at the covid inquiry this week . finalise at the height of the pandemic , it be entitle " the State of the Union " and be a blatant attempt by her Government to politicise the pandemic and undermine the Scottish Government when trust in Government message be crucial . it ask the Cabinet to endorse some sort of strategy , most detail of which sadly be miss from the inquiry ' s version . it require polling , research and data analysis , all at a time when Scotland ' s First Minister and Government be focus on and do their damnedest to protect the people of Scotland . no . 10 be slither from one scandal to another . we know that a Union strategy committee and a Union operation committee be set up to mimic the strategy and operation committee that help create the monster of Brexit . the right hon . Lady will agree that considerable resource be require , divert cash and personnel from fight the pandemic . it must be make clear to the public who fund that . will she ask her colleague to give a statement on the project , lay out why it be an appropriate use of governmental resource , what it do and what it be feel to have achieve — its key performance indicator , let we say — particularly give the time in which it be conceive ? finally , the Leader of the House will recall that the state of the Union report find , among many thing , that 82 % of young voter in Scotland want independence . be she surprised ? the hon . Lady talk about normal service , and we have have normal service from the SNP this morning : the full bingo card of textbook , standard nationalist operating procedure . failure to take responsibility for the thing that it be responsible for : tick . blame other : tick . demonise opponent : tick . distract from the indefensible thing that we have find about this week : tick . a complete lack of self - awareness : tick . only the hon . Lady could come to this House and raise the issue of the covid inquiry this week . perhaps she should have spend a little more time watch the evidence deliver by her own First Minister . we be have a covid inquiry and we do a lesson learn exercise because we want to ensure that this nation can be resilient in future and we want to learn the lesson . the hon . Lady ' s party have be less than forthcoming on a similar ambition for its performance in Scotland . I would ask she to reflect on that . the only thing miss from the hon . Lady ' s question be that she have somehow fail to accuse the UK Government of be responsible for an escape macaque from the Highland zoo . I also wish you a happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . last week Ram Mandir be consecrate in Ayodhya — the birthplace of Lord Ram — in Uttar Pradesh in India . that cause great joy to Hindus across the world . sadly , the BBC report that it be the site of the destruction of a mosque , forget that it have be a temple for more than 2 , 000 year before that , and that the Muslims have be allocate a five - acre site adjacent to the town on which to erect a mosque . will my right hon . Friend allow a debate in Government time on the impartiality of the BBC and its failure to provide a decent record of what be go on all over the world ? my hon . friend will know that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport recently report on the BBC review , which raise very important issue . my hon . friend know how to apply for a debate , and he will know that the next question to the Secretary of State be on 22 February . however , he have , I think , achieve his objective today , which be to get his concern on the record . can I too wish you a very happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I thank the Leader of the House for announce next week ' s business and the Backbench Business debate next Thursday . if we be allocate time on the first Thursday back follow the February recess , we will have two debate : on the civil nuclear road map , and on premature death from heart and circulatory disease . the Committee be very much open for application , particularly for Westminster Hall debate . every week , many member be unsuccessful in ballot for Westminster Hall debate . some of those who be unsuccessful might think about come along and apply to the Backbench Business Committee ; it be another route . More time be available in Westminster Hall than in the Chamber , which be heavily subscribe to , but we still very much welcome application for Chamber debate . I also note the change of business at short notice today . I fundamentally understand the reason for that , but hope that the Leader of the House will be kind to the Backbench Business Committee in allocate time in future week . I will raise one last matter , speak for myself . the former Kwik Save supermarket building in Felling , Gateshead , have be lie empty and in disrepair for more than a decade . the owner be resist all legal attempt by the council to facilitate its demolition . unfortunately , it have now become a magnet for antisocial behaviour , and local resident be regularly pelt with debris from the site . the owner have use the court and legal process to frustrate the council in expedite this much - need demolition . can the Leader of the House guide I on how to get this problem sort out ? the owner be cause a blight on many people ' s live in that locality . I thank the hon . gentleman for his usual helpful advert for the Backbench Business Committee . he mention the opportunity that it afford member , and the topic that I hope we can debate in the week back after recess . that be much appreciated . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be focus on precisely the type of situation that the hon . Gentleman describe , and on similar situation in which the landlord , although not an obstacle to development , do not have the capacity to make repair to the building , and other third - party developer do not wish to buy a building in that condition . he be look at what bridging finance could be make available to facilitate matter , and have also bring forward the notion of community auction . I will write to the Secretary of State to ensure that he have hear of the hon . Gentleman ' s interest in the issue , and will ask his official to afford the hon . gentleman some advice . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . cedar roundabout on the edge of Barnstaple be subject to 20 week of roadwork , which be suppose to help with congestion . the first week see up to two hour of delay for student and teacher get to school and business lose huge amount of trade , with staff also arrive late . the scheme have go ahead with local councillor ' support , but without adequate traffic management or modelling , either on the site or across the rest of Barnstaple , which have be blight by road delay for decade . while this be clearly a local issue , can the Leader of the House guide I towards any Government assistance or national scheme that could enable someone to come and help with the road traffic modelling ? the fear be that give how bad the traffic management have be to date , even when the scheme be complete , it will barely help the congestion in the way that it should . I be very sorry to hear about what be happen in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I know that elsewhere in the country such scheme have cause massive disruption , particularly to local business , and local authority have compensate those business . my hon . friend can obtain example of good practice from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . in my patch , we have taxi driver who model traffic flow and tell we where there be problem with , for instance , traffic light sequence . there be many innovative idea out there , and I would encourage my hon . friend ' s local authority to look at they , but I shall also ensure that the Secretary of State have hear about the situation in her constituency . on 13 June last year , Nottingham be shake by the horrific stabbing that take the life of three precious member of our community , Barnaby Webber , Grace o ' Malley - Kumar and Ian Coates . the person responsible have numerous interaction with mental health service and police force in the month and year precede the attack , and the family of his victim rightly want answer about miss opportunity to prevent his crime . will a Minister make a statement to the House on the various investigation that be take place , and tell we whether the Government will convene an independent inquiry ? I be sure I speak for the whole House in say how appalled we be by this terrible tragedy , involve not just the three individual who lose their life , but other who be very seriously injure . the nation have be rock by it , and I thank the hon . Lady for raise it . she will know that the Government Law officer have commission work on the matter , and I be sure that they will want to keep the House up to date . while that work be ongoing , there be probably not much more that can be say at this Dispatch Box , but I will ensure that both the Secretary of State for Justice and the Attorney General hear what the hon . Lady have say , and I shall ask they to keep she informed of progress . I be proud that under this Conservative Government , the reading ability of child in the United Kingdom continue to improve . the UK be now 14th in the internationally respect test under the programme for international student assessment , run by the OECD . that be up from 25th under the last Labour Government . give that this be National Storytelling Week and 7 March be World Book Day , would my right hon . friend consider a debate in Government time highlight the importance of read for pleasure , and celebrate british and irish literature ? hear , hear ! my hon . friend will have hear the support express throughout the House for what she have say . be able to read be a wonderful gift . it be not just about get an education ; it be about an individual ' s whole self , and family should be encourage to read together . my hon . friend be right to draw attention to our nation ' s success in climb the international literacy table . we should be very proud of that , and place on record our thank to everyone who have enable it to happen , include our incredible teacher . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 12 January last year , I ask the Leader of the House how I could pursue my search for a way of put bereaved child in touch with charity that want to help they , so that the charity know where the child be and can offer they support . it seem to I a simple matter to come up with a protocol , but since then we have have two debate , I have meet two Ministers , and a petition have be present to 10 Downing Street by bereaved child who want something to be do for other , so that other do not suffer in the way that they do . many of we who have be through that kind of grief want to see progress . both the Ministers with whom I discuss the issue be school minister ; they talk about the work be do in school , which be very supportive , and no one have any criticism of it . at the end of both meeting , however , the Ministers say , " actually , we think that you need to speak to the Home Office " , which be where everything grind to a halt . we do not seem to be able to make progress and obtain clarity , although what we want be quite simple . it be not a new law , but merely a change in practice . can the Leader of the House advise I on how we can get clarity and move forward , and perhaps secure that meeting with the Home Office ? I thank the hon . Lady for her continued work in this area . I know that many member from across the House have be in the situation she describe of lose a parent at a young age , and it be so important that people be properly support . I will write to all relevant Departments . I know from my own experience of deal with health and work issue that get the right people from the right Departments in the right room together , and then lock the door until they arrive at a solution that we can take forward , be sometimes the only way of do thing . I thank she for her diligence , and I will talk to all Ministers in the relevant Departments to ask they to put a plan together and to come and talk to she . a very happy birthday to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have be in regular communication with the relevant authority about the Meriden estate in Watford , and I bring many of they together just last year to look at the issue that resident have raise with I . one press issue be the dangerous and illegal parking that be happen outside the new parade of shop . although work be be do , I be share the resident ’ concern , which I also have , that this dangerous parking remain a serious accident wait to happen . will my right hon . friend guide I on how I can press the various authority for more urgency in find a solution and remind those parking illegally that they be put people ' s life at risk on York Way ? I thank my hon . friend for his campaign . as he know , illegal parking be classify as antisocial behaviour and it can have devastating consequence , particularly if emergency vehicle be not able to access road that they need to access . he will know that the next Home Office question be on 26 February and the next Department for Transport question be on 8 February , but I will make sure that both secretary of State have hear his concern . birthday greeting , Madam Deputy Speaker . will the Leader of the House endeavour to find Government time for a debate to celebrate sporting excellence in Northern Ireland , give that last night young Conor Bradley score his first goal for Liverpool football club and that , at the other end of the playing spectrum , we have the announcement by Steven Davis of his retirement from professional football , which I have allude to in my early - day motion 333 ? [ that this House note the announcement of Steven Davis to retire from play professional football ; acknowledge the outstanding achievement of Steven , who at 39 year old hold the UK man ' s international cap record with 140 appearance for Northern Ireland as well as 742 club appearance for top flight club in England and Scotland , have play for his beloved Glasgow Rangers in two separate spell use the term , it ' s such a special football club , in his retirement statement ; and wish he and his family every blessing and good wish as he decide on his post play career . ] that be an excellent suggestion for a debate , and the hon . Gentleman will know how to apply for one in the usual way . I be sure that the whole House would want to join he in his congratulation to both Conor and Steven on all that they have do to make we all very proud . a very happy Essex birthday to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . Leigh Heath Court be a low - rise block of 42 flat in my constituency that have cladding instal as part of the Government ' s green deal policy . however , follow the tragic event at Grenfell , the insurance premium there have go from £ 20 , 000 to more than £ 100 , 000 . sadly , because Leigh Heath Court be under 11 metre tall it do not qualify for Government support to remove the cladding , and the Association of British Insurers have repeatedly fail to deliver a long - promise alternative scheme . I have be raise this matter with Ministers for nearly two year now . please may we have a statement on what the Government be do to press the ABI to launch this long - promise scheme ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I congratulate she on her diligence in try to find a solution . if she will furnish my office with the correspondence she have have with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on this matter — I imagine it would be with that Department — I will raise it with the Department to see whether there be any more advice and support it can give to help get the situation resolve . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday , the Post Office confirm that the Clapham Common branch in my constituency will be close permanently next month , despite the serious impact that that will have on elderly and vulnerable resident . not only do the public consultation receive more than 1 , 000 response , but there have also be a high - profile campaign against the closure and a petition be hand into Downing Street just yesterday . the Post Office promise to take that feedback seriously , but , despite community opposition , it have not make a single change to its plan after the consultation . do the Leader of the House agree that public consultation should never be a meaningless tick - box exercise ? may we have a debate in Government time to ensure that community can influence these really important decision ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that there be an obligation to consult the public . we want the Post Office to provide service in the way they should be provide , so those consultation should be listen to . as she will know from my business statement , there will be a Backbench Business debate on Thursday 8 February about the management culture of the Post Office . I suggest that that will be she next available opportunity to get some serious time on the Floor of the House to air her concern . I hope the relevant people in the Post Office will have hear what she have say today and take it into account . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have the great honour to represent a large number of fisherman who operate under - 10 metre fishing vessel out of the harbour of Mevagissey , Newquay and Fowey . those vessel play an important role in provide high - quality fish for the UK and for export in the most sustainable way . they be an important part of the local economy and of the social and cultural fabric of their coastal community . those fisherman often feel overlook when the Government be set fishery policy , and they be adversely impact at the moment by the decision to remove quota for pollock . can we have a ministerial statement on the Government ' s policy on the under - 10 metre fishing fleet and the step they be take to support that fleet to ensure that it have a viable and sustainable future ? I agree with my hon . friend that we should be support our wonderful fisherman . he will know that the under - 10 metre fishing fleet play a vital role and that vessel receive around 12 , 000 tonne of quota last year — double what the same vessel would have receive if we be still a member of the EU . those vessel have work hard to seize those opportunity . I know that a port not far from my hon . friend ' s constituency have increase its annual sale from £ 40 million when it be in the EU to £ 70 million now . that achievement be huge testament to the hard work at that port , and we will do everything we can to support the UK fleet . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . family on Campton Fields estate in my constituency , like so many other across the country , have be leave expose to fleecehold by the Government ' s failure to act to end the ongoing limbo on estate adoption . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill contain many good measure , but it do not act on the Competition and Markets Authority ' s recommendation to tackle the issue of estate adoption at source . with cross - party representation now be make on the issue , will the Housing Minister make a statement on when the Government will tackle it once and for all ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and his support for the legislation that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be bring forward . give that the next question to the Secretary of State be not until 4 March , I will make sure that the Department and the Housing Minister have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . member will be familiar with the various drop - in session hold in the House , particularly those organise by campaign group and charity connect with the health sector . a common theme be early diagnosis , but , disturbingly , statistic sometimes show that treatment be not common across the country and perhaps there may not be the good outcome in one ' s own constituency . may we have a debate in Government time to look at how we can improve treatment across the country ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . early diagnosis be critical in get the good patient outcome , but it be also critical to ensure that people be access the healthcare they need in a timely way and not wait long than they need to . that be why we have invest so heavily in new diagnostic testing centre across the country — off the top of my head , some 160 have be stand up — and they be help to bring down waiting list . it be an excellent topic for a debate . we should be look across the whole UK , so that the four NHS system can learn from each other and ensure patient be get the good care , wherever they be . everyone have wish you a happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be nervously think of say , " pinch , punch , first day of the month , " but , know your character , I don ' t think I will try it out . I would not try it on the Leader of the House either . I have a very serious question for the Leader of the House . it be extremely worrying that a Member of Parliament be stand down because of the pressure that be be put on he . there be increase pressure on member of Parliament . I raise worry and concern about my own case recently . it will be a terrible thing if people be afraid to offer themselves for public office and to stand for Parliament . we need not just to have a debate , but to do something in the House about how we give well support . we want people to get up in the morning and be keen to come to work . when I raise my problem , I do not get much help or support from the House , or even from my own party . we need to do well if we be to keep this a healthy parliamentary democracy . I thank the honourable and wise Member for his question . it be an absolute tragedy that people who come to this place in good faith to represent their constituency and do a job that they love be hound out of office , or have to leave office , because of the wellbeing of their family . I know that the child of hon . member , include very young child , have in some case be target . that should not happen . last year , I initiate the large ever survey of member to make sure that this House be respond to the concern that they have for the world as it be now , not as it be 20 year ago . we must continue to do that . I hope that the House authority will meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss his experience and how we can support hon . member to ensure that they be able to do their job . we can all help with this , and the public can help with it too . we know that what often encourage people be when they feel that they be give permission by other to demonise and dehumanise member of Parliament , and quite often that permission to do serious physical harm and the motivation for it start on social medium . whatever we think about a particular person ' s political persuasion , their view or their voting record , they be in this place at the service of the people who send they here . that deserve respect and it deserve our protection , too . a very happy birthday to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . food waste be bad for the environment and bad for the economy , which be why the work of food redistribution charity , such as FareShare , be essential . at a time when people be struggle with the cost of living , the redistribution network be vital . we should look at how we can improve it and invest in it . although the Government be make good progress in reduce food waste along the supply chain , there be still much more that can be do . even in this House , I be always concerned about how much food we throw away . will my right hon . friend make parliamentary time available to discuss the issue of food waste in the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that very important matter . I know that many right hon . and hon . member from across the House be involve in pantry and larder scheme , which not only help people with the cost of live but ensure that food do not go to waste . these national network be quite often tie in with local provision as well — with local allotment and community group . I think that be an excellent topic for a debate , and I know that the Backbench Business Committee Chairman will be interested in an application . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . a very experienced MP once say to I that the letter " MP " stand for " must persist " , so I will persist and ask the Leader of the House whether she will help I to get a statement from the Paymaster General about the infected blood inquiry , in relation to the statement by Sir Brian last month about the delay in the publication of his final report . I know that work have be go on , so will the Paymaster General update the House , and will the Leader of the House reassure I that the House will hear from the Government on 20 May , the day of the publication of Sir Brian ' s final report , and not within the 25 sit day that have be talk about ? that would mean that the Government could take until 3 July to respond , which be not acceptable . on behalf of everyone in this House , I thank the right hon . Lady for her persistence on this incredibly important matter . she be right to be persistent : often mps , particularly back - Bench mps , do not have authority over particular area . all we be able to do sometimes be nag and persist , but that be what we need to do , and she do it very effectively . I have have some recent update from the Paymaster General , who be work through this ; I know that she be aware of that . I hope that he will update the House before 20 May on the progress that he be make , and when that landmark report be finally conclude , I think the Government will be able to make themselves available to the House on the matter . a very happy birthday to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . ten of thousand of pound — that be the bill that have land at the door of a number of my constituent , and accord to a BBC report the constituent of right hon . and hon . member across the north of England . the bill relate to cavity wall insulation that resident have instal use a Government grant . that cavity wall insulation be defective , and cause damp , mould and damage to property . when no win , no fee lawyer get in touch , resident take up the offer . that proceed through the court . they be tell that they would not have to pay , but a law firm base in Sheffield , SSB Law , have now collapse . there be no insurance policy for resident , and they have now be hit with legal cost because of its collapse . I understand that the Solicitors Regulation Authority do a forensic investigation last year and be now investigate again , but can I enlist the help of the Leader of the House to get justice for resident who have no mean to pay the ten of thousand of pound that they be be ask for , when they think that they be do the right thing in get cavity wall insulation , and put it right after it go wrong ? that be an appalling situation , and I be very sorry to hear about it . I understand that the issue have be report to the Solicitors Regulation Authority and that there be an investigation into the matter that my hon . friend raise . I be sure that he will support his constituent with any complaint that they wish to make to the legal ombudsman and the Solicitors Regulation Authority . he will know that justice oral question be schedule to take place on 20 February , but the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities might also be able to assist , perhaps with some of the scheme that it have in place to help to regenerate community and tackle some of these issue . I will write to the Department and ask whether it can assist he . many happy return , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that you will not be the only person celebrate today : my constituent Catherine Humphrey be at the Palace yesterday for an investiture . I know that her family be immensely proud of she . the Leader of the House will be aware of the wonderful gospel singer Harmonie London , who regularly perform on the street of London , principally on Oxford Street . during a recent performance there , Community Support Officer AW5152 accost the performer , and say , " you ' re not allow to perform church song outside of church ground unless you have a special letter . " the Leader of the House will know that under article 9 our right to freedom of religious worship be enshrine in law and protect . that officer be simply wrong , but when that be point out to she , her response be to stick her tongue out at the performer . that be just wrong . this performer , unfortunately , have be accost more than once by police officer about her performance . she be entitle to sing gospel song on the street of our nation , as many busker do , and those freedom should be protect . I hope the police , after apologise , will train their officer to be aware of the right of all the citizen of this United Kingdom . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter . he will know that the Metropolitan police have say that they get it wrong . I think there be some other issue relate to busking licence and all that , but in term of what he have describe the officer say and her justification for act , the Met have say they get that wrong and my understanding be that they have apologise for do so . he be right to raise that , and I hope it will have reassure the public about their particular right to do one thing or another . however , we also need to place on record our support for the police . we have police by consent ; sometimes they make poor decision , but they be hold to account for they and , where they have get it wrong , they apologise . I think that be the hallmark of a good police service . in 2019 , I be successful in my campaign to have Mill Hill Broadway train station include in the Department for Transport ' s access for all programme , but I be subsequently advise that the installation would be delay . give the importance of this project to local people , can we have a Minister come to the Dispatch Box to provide an update on the progress of the last round of funding application ? I be sorry to hear that there have be delay to this very important project , which I know my hon . friend work incredibly hard to secure . he will know that the next Transport question be on 8 February . I understand that there be an issue about engage a particular contractor to be able to start the project in March this year , but the question be well direct to the Secretary of State , and I will make sure that he have hear what my hon . friend have say . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . over the last few week , this House have see a rise in absenteeism among senior Ministers . there have be a debate on steel with no Secretary of State and nothing from the Education Secretary on the childcare crisis . do the Leader of the House agree that that be an unacceptable way for her colleague to treat this House ? I will certainly make sure that the relevant Departments have hear what the hon . Lady have say , but I disagree with she : whether it be a statement , attendance at question or make Ministers available for urgent question , I be not aware of any incident where the relevant Minister have not be present . Penblwydd hapus , Madam Deputy Speaker . Ynys M ô n be represent by five member of the Senedd , soon to increase to six , and be merge with another constituency . that could result in not one MS live on Ynys M ô n . conversely , the UK Government have recognise Ynys M ô n ' s unique island character by grant the island special protect status . do the Leader of the House agree that the Welsh Labour Government , prop up by Plaid , should prioritise increase the number of gp and dentist appointment , not increase the number of MSs by a staggering 60 % , from 60 to 96 ? I be shocked to hear about this plan to massively increase the number of MSs . the answer to question of how to get well healthcare and so on be seldom more politician . it be usually more gps or more teacher — and we , of course , have a good track record deliver on both those thing . to put the plan in context , if the same constituent - to - politician ratio as in the plan be outline in Wales be transfer to the House of Commons , this Chamber would have to accommodate 2 , 058 member of Parliament . that be Labour ' s blueprint for govern Britain , I think . may I suggest a glass of the Talisker to mark your special day , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I know it be one of your favourite . early this week we see the publication of the long - delay Teesworks report , which make no few than 28 recommendation to address poor practice by the Tees Tory Mayor in everything from governance and transparency to failure to provide his own board with the necessary information to make decision , to the lack of scrutiny over value for public money . do the Leader of the House agree that that be sufficient reason to call in the National Audit Office , even before the late Private Eye revelation that £ 20 million be pay by the Mayor ' s development corporation to the organisation control by two local businessman to move rubble from one part of the site to another , without any contract ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be simply make a suggestion to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , or whether he be offer to purchase you a glass of whisky — I hope the latter . labour be focus on Teesside — the last few month have be the first time for that , really . for many , many year , when Labour have the opportunity to directly help that part of the country , they ignore it , so the people of Teesside — feed up with Labour inaction — put their trust in Mayor Houchen . he have a plan and he be deliver : he save the airport ; he secure the first and large freeport , which have already secure billion of pound of inward investment ; the Teesworks site have already be make ready for redevelopment and investment , ahead of schedule and ahead of budget ; £ 650 million of investment be secure thousand of green job ; the seah factory be be build use british steel , which make I very proud ; and the world ' s first carbon capture , utilisation and storage facility have secure billion of additional funding into the area . Mayor Houchen have manage to secure £ 200 million to invest in local rail , and he have a new bypass on the way ; he have increase the employment rate by 3 % above the national average ; and he have future business rate revenue , which be project to be about £ 1 . 4 billion to date . he get on and deliver . Labour ought to be take note , rather than smear he and the hard - work people of Teesside who be make this plan happen . that tell I that Labour have learn absolutely nothing ; it have not change and show every sign of take the people of Teesside for grant . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . taxi driver be essential key worker who get youngster to school and the elderly to health service and support our night - time economy . but I have speak to taxi driver in Stockton South , and they say that they be increasingly victim of assault and fare dodger , and they feel that no one have their back . will my right hon . friend grant I a debate on how we can well protect taxi driver and ensure that those responsible feel the full force of the law ? I thank my hon . friend for draw our attention to the issue . give the statistic that I cite early , he will know that crime be fall . in particular , violent crime against individual be down substantially — by 52 % — and , of course , we have more police officer than ever before . I be sure that the Home Secretary will want to hear about my hon . friend ' s particular concern ; I will certainly make sure that he have hear they , but my hon . friend can also raise they with he directly in question on 26 February . I thank my hon . friend for stand up for the taxi driver in his part of the world . many happy return , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be nice to share a moment of lightness in what be otherwise quite dark time . last week , the International Court of Justice rule that claim of genocide in Gaza be plausible . two day later , during a settler conference in Jerusalem alongside 10 other Government Ministers , Itamar Ben - Gvir , the israeli Minister of National Security , state that encourage emigration from Gaza be a necessity . I be sure that many colleague across the House would agree that that sound dangerously like an advocation of ethnic cleansing of Palestinians from Gaza , so will the Leader of the House find time for a debate in Government time so that this House may express its view on whether it be now appropriate to issue target sanction against any individual , organisation or state that be find to have incite or commit war crime , or incite ethnic cleansing or genocide ? I understand why the hon . Gentleman raise concern about that issue . all member of the House be concerned about what be happen in the middle east . we want to see civilian protect and an end to hostility . key to that be ensure that Israel be safe and secure , and that its citizen who have be kidnap and be be hold hostage be return . the hon . Gentleman will have hear what the Foreign Secretary have say on those matter . he have be do a huge amount of work , particularly over the last week , talk to nation in the region , which can particularly help to secure all those aim . I urge all right hon . and hon . member to think about what they say on the Floor of the House and whether it help or hinder that situation . this Chamber be not an international court ; accusation about genocide or ethnic cleansing should not be make . it be about ensure that the right body be oversee matter . I be sure that if the hon . Gentleman ask for a briefing on how the Government be do that , whether through our partnership in the Ministry of Defence or at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , he would be very reassure by the oversight that be be provide . trust in politics matter . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out the importance of every single Member ensure that any information they present to the House as fact be accurate , and that , when mistake be make , as they sometimes will be , member have a duty to correct the record in early course out of respect for other member and those we represent ? do she agree that correct inaccurate information provide in error be a sign not of weakness but of strength and honour — value to which we should all aspire ? I hope that my past action on that matter speak volume and do that job . where I have give the House incorrect information , I have correct the record . the hon . Lady be quite right : sometimes mistake happen and they should be correct . with regard to the motivation for her question , I refer she to what I say yesterday far to a point of order : the figure that she be work off , from a House of Commons Library paper , be from the SNP ' s budget in 2022 . they be out of date . I write to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 16 October to ask whether the Department would consider reopen the state - of - the - art Rutherford cancer centre in Bomarsund in my constituency , give the lengthy — and lengthen — cancer waiting list in my area of the north - east . I receive a letter from the Department only this week — three month later — suggest that : " to operate as NHS cancer centre , the Rutherford site need to meet NHS specification and we be advise by NHS England that they do not . " the reality be that other Rutherford cancer unit , in Taunton and in Clatterbridge in Liverpool , have joint partnership with the NHS . the Rutherford centre in Bomarsund have have referral from the NHS , so this be absolute humbug . will the Leader of the House consider a debate in Government time on fairness and equity in the frequency of diagnostic , cancer treatment and so on across the country , not forget the north - east of England ? order . before I call the Leader of the House , I should say that a significant number of Members wish to participate , and there be some very serious business to follow , so I would be grateful if member on both side of the House ask question and do not make speech . as the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) know , the Department of Health and Social Care oversee the national cancer plan . although I do not know the background to his constituency issue , I suspect it will be a matter for local commissioner . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have hear what he have say today , but he may need to direct the issue to local commissioner . the Office for Budget Responsibility be responsible for give clear advice to the Government on their fiscal and budgetary strategy . have the Leader of the House note that the other day a senior representative of the OBR say that the Government ' s figure be a " work of fiction " , because the projection for cut after the election have never be print ? will she comment on that ? be it a work of fiction ? can we have a debate on the OBR and its role ? I suggest that the hon . Gentleman should raise that directly with the Treasury . he will not have long to wait , as the next Treasury question will be on 6 February . I remind he that we establish and continue to support the OBR , which have do a great deal of work to ensure that the kind of mismanagement that happen before 2010 do not happen again . recent court document appear to show that , follow an internal Foreign Office review of their legality in the light of what be happen in Gaza , the Foreign Secretary himself recommend that arm sale licence to Israel should be allow to continue . there be concern that at a recent Foreign Affairs Committee hear the Foreign Secretary give the impression that he have not take a formal decision . it be important that this be clear up , so will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate on the legality of our current arm export to Israel and the fcdo ' s decision to continue those expert ? will she write to the Foreign Secretary to ask he to place the legal advice he have receive on this in the Library ? this may be news to the hon . Gentleman , but there be a Select Committee of this House that scrutinise arm export control . it be entitle to look at anything , and all the policy will be cite there . much of the material be available for hon . member to look at . there be very clear criterion for decision taker , and the process have oversight and a legal framework around it . as he know , we do not grant arm export licence to country where we think the arm will be misuse or might irresponsibly fall into the hand of a third party . I can only conclude that the fact that those criterion have not be meet mean that we be right to continue our defence partnership with Israel . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be currently a major shareholder , and in a few week ' time will be the 100 % shareholder , in a significant food processing business in North West Leicestershire . food be not a luxury : it be essential for human existence . food price inflation be run at 10 % , which be put pressure on household budget . across Europe , farmer be lead protest that have be barely report in our medium . the phrase " no farmer , no food " have be translate and be understand in many language . can we have an urgent debate in Government time on UK farming , UK food production and UK food security , before our farmer start take direct action ? the hon . Gentleman will know how to apply for a debate , and I be sure that a debate on that topic would be very well attend . he will know that many conservative Members would have to make a similar declaration of interest if they be to speak in such a debate , so we absolutely understand the issue face our farmer . we value what farmer do as a tremendous service to this nation , and we rely on they for our resilience . in July 2020 , Baroness Cumberlege produce a report call " first do no harm " , which look at the damage be do to woman by sodium valproate , primodo and vaginal mesh . member from across the House have support that report , and have especially support listen to the woman who have be harm and debilitate so badly by the use of that mesh . can we please have a debate in Government time to update we on the Government ' s progress in adhere to some of those important recommendation ? I thank the hon . Lady for keep this issue in the public eye . it have receive cross - party support and this be long overdue — we have not put enough focus on the particular issue that affect woman , and on some of the legacy treatment and device that have cause so much damage . I thank all member who have work towards that goal , most notably my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Dame Jackie Doyle - Price ) , who do a huge amount of work on the issue when she be at the Department of Health and Social Care . the hon . Lady will know that the Secretary of State have just publish an update report on our strategy for woman ' s health , and I will make sure that she have hear what the hon . Lady have say about this particular issue . petrol price in Merthyr Tydfil continue to be approximately 10p per litre high than in some surround area — even the same retailer be charge more locally than at nearby store . I have write to petrol retailer that have forecourt locally , and those that have reply have be unable to justify why resident in my constituency be be rip off . can we have a debate on what action the Government can take to address this scandalous situation at what continue to be a very difficult time for family ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : household and business need to know that they be get competition at the pump and the good price , and that any saving that be make — due to change in oil price , for example — be be pass on to the customer . he will know that we have bring forward work with the Competition and Markets Authority to stand up PumpWatch , and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero give an update to member of Parliament on this issue a couple of week ago . that work will ensure competition , but it will also enable consumer to see what different retailer be do , which will be a big step forward . if the hon . Gentleman want to give I the detail of the retailer that be not treat his constituent fairly , I will make sure that the Secretary of State see they . today be time to talk Day , the nation ' s big mental health conversation . good - quality youth service can have a positive impact on young people ' s mental health : place such as the young person hub and Tokko Youth Space in Luton , and people such as our outreach worker from Luton Council and Central Bedfordshire Council , be all really important in enable young people to open up and feel listened to . will the Leader of the House consider allow Government time for a debate on the important role of youth organisation and service for young people ' s mental wellbeing and personal development ? on behalf of all right hon . and hon . member , I thank the hon . Lady for raise Time to talk Day — I know that many colleague will be involve in raise awareness and make full use of the opportunity to do so . she be right that mental health be a particular issue affect young people . it always have be , but particularly after the dreadful pandemic year we really need to ensure that our young people have everything they need to thrive and have good mental health . the hon . Lady will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . the Leader of the House will know that since early last year , if not before , many Opposition Members — particularly the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) — have be raise the issue of Teesworks . the report release on Monday be scathing in its assessment of the company , state that teeswork offer insufficient transparency to provide evidence of value for money . clearly , we need great transparency in such project , so will the Leader of the House please remind the Prime Minister to finally release detail of his conversation surround teeswork — as he be ask to do twice last year — and will she agree to a debate on the need for the National Audit Office to investigate Teesworks , give the scale of the project and the public concern ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I should clarify that my remark be not that the Labour party have neglect to scrutinise the work of the Teesside Mayor : they be that Labour have neglect that area of the country when it be in power and have so long to help it to regenerate and bring in investment . I draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to what I say early about the achievement of the Mayor and what local people have be able to do when bureaucracy be push out of the way and good people can get together and get on , help the area that they love to develop . in his question , the hon . Gentleman have highlight the fact that there be an enormous amount of scrutiny — of contract , of value for money and of everything that have go on . that be what the report and the other investigation and oversight have achieve . I say to the Labour party that it should stop knock success , stop knock this plan that be work , and start take some note . just before Christmas , the Scottish Government publish their budget , which include confirmation that Clyde Gateway — a community urban regeneration company that have invest hugely in my constituency and in nearby Glasgow — would continue to receive £ 5 million of capital funding . a few day later , the Scottish Government realise that that be a typo : they be actually cut the entirety of the capital budget to that organisation , although they do not make that public until several week later . I be tempt to ask the Leader of the House whether we can have a debate on the basic competence of the Scottish Government , but instead , I ask she whether there be any mechanism for a further statement on levelling - up funding , or on any other mean that we can use to get funding to an essential community regeneration company such as Clyde Gateway . I be very sorry to hear about that situation : I can tell how disappointing it be to the hon . Gentleman , but it will also be very disappointing to his constituent . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Scotland have hear his concern and worry . there be not enough hour in Government time , or hour that the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee could give this House , to fully examine and debate the level of incompetency that the Scottish Government be so renowned for . I be very sorry to hear about this particular incident , which the hon . Gentleman have now put on the record . it be always a pleasure to ask the Leader of the House a question . this week , as be mostly the case , my question be focus on the persecution of religious group across the world . every week , I bring to her attention the state of freedom of religion or belief ; this week , I raise the persecution of Christians in Iraq , a country that I visit some year ago . Chaldean Catholics in Iraq be presently live under impossible oppression and confiscation of ecclesiastical property after the country ' s President revoke the state ' s recognition that Cardinal Sako be head of their church and sole administrator of its good . will the Leader of the House join I in urge that religious expression and property in Iraq be protect , not just for the Chaldean Catholics but for all the ethnic minority in that country ? I thank the hon . gentleman for draw the House ' s attention to a very important matter that deserve our focus and scrutiny . again , he have do we a service by raise this question , as he do every single week . give that Foreign Office question be not for some time , I will ensure that the Foreign Secretary have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about this particular group , and will ask the relevant Minister to update the hon . Gentleman ' s office about what we be do to raise awareness of the matter and hold people to account . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I apologise for my misunderstanding early , but I seek your advice on how back Benchers who have successfully apply for a Backbench Business debate can have ample and adequate opportunity to take part in debate that be give adequate time . last week , the right hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Penny Mordaunt ) put forward an alteration to the business of the House , which be fine . this week ' s business have also be alter , again understandably , give the importance of the Northern Ireland motion for approval and the United Kingdom internal market motion for approval . perhaps they could have take a whole day ; I be sure that would have be welcome by Northern Ireland Members . however , the reality be that we might have only an hour for two debate : the general debate on miner and mining community , and the motion for freedom and democracy in Iran . frankly , that be not acceptable . can you advise the House , Mr Speaker , on how back bencher can have their voice hear in this place ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I be happy to respond to the hon . Gentleman , and I understand his disappointment . I hope there will be a good amount of time for Backbench Business debate . the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , who be sit next to the hon . Gentleman , will know that I be keen to accommodate and give time for these important debate and to support the innovation that be the Backbench Business Committee . it will be for the House to decide the length of time it take on these two statutory instrument . yesterday , there be considerable representation for more time to be give , and for the House to have a mechanism to allow the si to be take individually . the Government listen , and on this important matter we think it be important that the House have that time . the only thing I can add be that the hon . Gentleman be sit next the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , who I be sure will offer a very sympathetic ear and , I hope , could schedule more time for that very important issue . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I raise the infected blood scandal and inaccuracy in what Ministers be say to Parliament , which be cause I a great deal of concern . on 18 January , the Paymaster General say to the House during Cabinet Office question , in relation to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation in his report : " the psychological support be now in place " . — [ Official Report , 18 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 1015 . ] I then submit a question to the Department of Health and Social Care ask it to publish detail of that support . the answer come back : " a bespoke psychological support service for infected blood victim , commission by NHS England , be currently be develop , and plan to go live in early summer 2024 . " it seem , therefore , that the Minister misspoke . during those question , he also say to the House : " I have recognise the need to ensure that we get the clinical , legal and care expert in place . they be in place , and they be work on some of the complex issue the hon . Lady allude to . " — [ Official Report , 18 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 1015 . ] again , I table a question ask for further detail . the answer come back on 29 January : " the Government be in the process of appoint clinical , legal and social care expert to advise the Cabinet Office on detailed technical consideration of the Government ' s response to the Infected Blood Inquiry and will update Parliament in due course . " it be totally unacceptable for Ministers to give information on the Floor of the House that be then contradict in write answer to member . will you comment , Mr Speaker , on what step I can take to ensure that accurate information in this really difficult scandal , where people be die , be relay correctly to the House , Members and the wide general public ? I thank the right hon . Lady for give notice of her point of order , which be a very important one . as she well know , I be not responsible for the accuracy of statement that minister make in this House or in write answer , nor have I be give the power to police their accuracy . however — and I think this be important — I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear her remark , and the Table Office will be able to advise she on how to pursue this matter . one thing I do know be that the right hon . member will not stop here today , but will take all avenue open to she to ensure that she get a response to the remark she have make . again , I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have take that on board . Northern Ireland we now come to motion 1 , on the draft Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) regulation . if the House give leave , this can be debate with motion 2 , on the draft Windsor Framework ( UK Internal Market and Unfettered Access ) regulation . be there an objection ? object . since there have be an objection to the two motion be debate together , we will take they separately . I beg to move , that the draft Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . get devolution back up and run have be the principal focus of Government policy in Northern Ireland since February 2022 , when the then First Minister resign . the agreement that I set out to the House yesterday be design to secure the wide possible support among the community in Northern Ireland for participate in the political process . these regulation should be see and consider in the context of form part of a package . this package will safeguard and durably strengthen Northern Ireland ' s integral place in the Union and the UK ' s internal market , and it will do so by place commitment in that package into law . the Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 affirm , strengthen and future - proof Northern Ireland ' s place within the Union , underpin by the act of Union and the term of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 . if the Chancellor of the Exchequer wish to lower the vat rate or to take something out of vat altogether , will that be a good law for Northern Ireland as well as for the rest of the UK , and can we now set taxis for the whole country ? on the example my right hon . friend have give of vat , that have just be do for a number of different thing . I believe the late one be solar panel , but I will check with those in the Box . there be various other product , and I will get an answer for my right hon . friend . but , yes , be the answer for vat , and also for tax . the regulation address the concern that have be express in part of the Unionist community in Northern Ireland that its status have be diminish . let I say from the outset of our discussion that what the Government want and the Democratic Unionist party want , and which we have , be our share determination to strengthen our Union . may I sincerely recognise the effort of the right hon . Gentleman , his team and his colleague in achieve what they have achieve over the last week ? one of the most encouraging thing in the last week be that leader within nationalism and Unionism have all emphatically say they want to make Northern Ireland work . we all have different view on the constitutional future , and that discussion and debate be ongoing , but if unionist want to make Northern Ireland work and nationalist want to make Northern Ireland work regardless of that , everyone benefit . I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman . it have be a pleasure to work with all the party leader over the time I have be Secretary of State . I be absolutely convinced — indeed , I have see this on a number of occasion — that they can work together behind the scene . it be strike last February , when Detective Chief Inspector John Caldwell , a police officer , be shoot by dissident republican , how all the political leader of Northern Ireland come together in such a strong repudiation of that attack . I have see they work together behind the scene on a whole host of thing , and I know that , when Stormont be up and run , they will be able to deliver strong government , make the right decision for Northern Ireland and make Northern Ireland a much more prosperous place . I thank he for his intervention , and he be absolutely right . again , let I say from the outset that what unite the Government and the DUP be our share determination to strengthen our Union . there be a memorial service on Tuesday for somebody who I think never get enough credit for his role in the peace process . Peter Brooke once say that Britain have " no selfish strategic interest " in Northern Ireland , and that be later repeat in the Downing Street declaration . read the Command Paper , it seem to I that the Government have move from that position , which I think undermine the Good Friday agreement . they seem to have move away from the principle of rigorous impartiality . do the Secretary of State agree with Peter Brooke ' s assertion and the Downing Street declaration , or be he move to a different place ? I disagree with what the hon . Gentleman say at the end of his intervention and completely agree with what Sir Peter Brooke say at the time and our commitment to the Belfast / Good Friday agreement in all of its different facet . I want to stress our determination to strengthen the Union , and the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) have powerfully argue that strong and effective devolution deliver a thriving Northern Ireland within our United Kingdom be the sure way to ensure that this United Kingdom remain united in the time ahead . in take the step he have take , he be deliver far more for the future of Northern Ireland in the Union than any of his detractor . can the Secretary of State give a list or summary of what those who be against the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) feel they have actually achieve in their month of campaigning ? I would love to be able to outline anything . I have a piece of paper with that on it ; oh , it be blank — nothing , absolutely zero . I be hold up the piece of paper . I be afraid that the back of a postage stamp be too big to write what they have achieve . the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) have achieve so much in this deal in safe - guard the Union and his detractor have not come up with anything . the change the right hon . Gentleman have secure in these regulation and the other instrument before this House , which we will consider shortly , will far enhance those protection . the regulation end any presumption that there be any form of automatic and unchecked dynamic alignment with european good rule . section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , the so - call pipeline of EU law , be now expressly subject to the operation of vital democratic safeguard that the Northern Ireland Assembly , when sit , will be able to exercise , include the Stormont brake . indeed when — I emphasise when — Stormont begin to sit again and first assemble , I will be able to sign that Stormont brake legislation into law and it will be available to be use by the Assembly as we move forward . when Parliament pass the 2018 Act , it be exercise its sovereignty so that the UK - EU withdrawal agreement could be implement in domestic law . the Secretary of State indicate that there be now " vital democratic safeguard " — he use the plural term — to guard against EU law , include the Stormont brake . can he tell we what the other safeguard be ? yes : we have the withdrawal Act itself , and the right hon . Gentleman be sit in the place that safeguard our law themselves . it be right that we be update domestic law to reflect the fact that democratically elect representative in Northern Ireland will now be able to reject new and amend EU law and that the withdrawal agreement ' s implementation be subject to robust scrutiny . the ability of Ministers to govern be already severely constrain by thing like the Human Rights Act 1998 . what worry I about this be not the deal as such ; I be a brexiteer and want a dynamic and deregulated economy , so what happen when we try to diverge from EU law ? will some civil servant have to sign this off — will it be a question of " no , Minister " before we even get to the House of Commons ? can the Secretary of State therefore assure I that we will be able to enjoy our Brexit freedom under this deal ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question , which have be put before . it be put yesterday and it be a genuinely fair question . I can honestly say that this package of measure will not change the freedom and power we have secure through leave the European Union or through the Windsor framework . it will not reduce our ability to diverge or our commitment to do so should it be in the interest of the United Kingdom , and if the legislation do carry significant adverse effect , of course the House would expect the Minister to set out any step to be take in response to that assessment . as my right hon . friend may expect , I shall now refer to section 38 and ask he a question about it . on the amendment make under the statutory instrument — which be not by Act of Parliament , of course — the arrangement under section 38 of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2020 state that the Parliament of the United Kingdom be sovereign and that its sovereignty subsist notwithstanding section 7a of the 2018 Act , include the Windsor framework . my right hon . friend will know what I be say : in practice and in law constitutionally there be the capacity for override not only the withdrawal agreement and the protocol but the Windsor framework as a result of what be contain in those word . I note my hon . friend ' s point . as I say yesterday , I hope he recognise what we be do in this statutory instrument — make Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom a strong addition to the section . as I say to he yesterday , his original clause have be a big part of the solution to this conundrum . I be grateful to he for it and completely understand the point he have just make and thank he for it . from listen to the Secretary of State and read the Command Paper , we would perhaps think there be only the Democratic Unionist party in Northern Ireland and no people with any other constitutional preference , but of course there be many people in the north of Ireland who want to see a new Ireland as soon as possible . despite what might be in the Command Paper and what the Secretary of State and other have say , do he agree that the Good Friday agreement be sacrosanct and that it be absolutely clear that if people vote for constitutional change , that be what will happen — that it be not up to the British Government or anybody else ; it be up to the people of Ireland , north and south ? yes , nothing that we be do here change that fundamental principle . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to make that point and I hope I have clarify it for he properly . far to the point make by the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) , the difficulty be that in the eye of Unionists the Northern Ireland protocol undermine the principle of consent , which be at the heart of the Good Friday agreement . do the Secretary of State agree that these new measure and the legislation reset the balance so that the principle of consent and the will of the people of Northern Ireland alone will determine the future of our country as part of the United Kingdom ? yes , and I think the right hon . Gentleman and the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) be make exactly the same point , and rightly so . they represent two community that have govern by consent in the past and what we be do here today be try to get government by consent back up and run in Stormont in the future . as one who in live memory serve as a Minister responsible for the environment and for agriculture in Northern Ireland because the Northern Ireland political process be not work , may I say that , as well as the exercise in syntax and the like in the writing of these instrument , the key point be that the Assembly should be effective and Ministers should come from Northern Ireland do the job we do not want to have to do from Westminster ? anyone who ever become Father of the House be obviously wise and well experienced and that be a particularly wise comment from a particularly well experienced hon . member . my hon . friend be completely right in everything he say . crucially , this legislation will also change the law so that new regulatory border between Great Britain and Northern Ireland can not emerge from future agreement with the European Union . that be an important new safeguard to future - proof Northern Ireland ' s constitutional status . no Government in the future can agree to another protocol ; neither can the UK internal market be salami - slice by any future agreement with the European Union . this legislation will also introduce safeguard so that Government Bills that affect trade between Northern Ireland and other part of the UK be properly assess . minister in charge of such Bills will need to provide — my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) raise this point — a write ministerial statement to Parliament as to whether a Bill would have a significant adverse effect on trade between Northern Ireland and another part of the United Kingdom . if the legislation do carry that significant adverse effect , the House would expect the Minister to set out any step to be take in response to that assessment . indeed , we have Select Committee Chairmen present , and they would expect to do high level of scrutiny in that space . this be a very good transparency measure that we should all welcome . the Secretary of State have repeatedly say that the deal we be look at today will not prevent Britain from diverge from EU law , which be obviously welcome . on page 17 of the Command Paper , it state : " we will also … set out plan to introduce legislation in the spring that would avoid new regulatory divergence between GB and NI on veterinary medicine . " be the Command Paper say that in that area there will be no future divergence ? if my right hon . friend go through paragraph 136 to 141 of the Command Paper , she will see we state that we know that the current situation be not right . we have a grace period that will run out soon , and we want to find a solution similar to the one we find for human medicine . it have be suggest that we set up a work group of expert and people who truly know and care about this subject to look at this matter quickly and come to Ministers and Parliament with a solution that we will take to our european partner and negotiate hard to get , and we want to do that . the situation be not quite as she state ; there be a process to get to a point where we have a settle view from this House , and indeed from expert from Northern Ireland in this space , so that we can move forward on this matter . I know it be important to all member from Northern Ireland . as I be say before that intervention , the SI will increase transparency by ensure that Parliament be present with evidence of the GB - NI trade impact of relevant legislation before proceed with it . the concrete step we be take and enshrine in law will deliver clarity to business that Northern Ireland ' s unfettered access to the UK internal market will not be threaten by a new regulatory border . finally , with this legislation the Government will provide for additional duty and further requirement in statute regard the operation of an independent review of the Windsor framework , reflect our steadfast commitment to ensure that the framework operate on the basis of the broad cross - community support . as Secretary of State , I will be put under a duty to commission a review within one month of the Assembly have pass a consent vote , but without cross - community consent , and I will be oblige to respond to the report from that review within six month . that constitute a new and important commitment by this Government . all those step we be take be design to ensure that tangible action be take off the back of a review and solution be find . Government Ministers be be place under a legal duty to raise the content of the review at the UK - EU Joint Committee on the withdrawal agreement . can the Secretary of State provide a little further clarity about the independent review of the Windsor framework ? he will appreciate the spectrum of view on the Windsor framework , and it be worth state that most people in Northern Ireland , most elect representative and most business be pragmatic about it , although there be those who be oppose to it . can he assure we that it will be a genuinely independent review that take on board the full spectrum of opinion , not least in the context of the Assembly potentially have confirm at that stage ongoing support for the Windsor framework ? I can give the hon . Gentleman that confirmation . it will be for minister to make sure that the panel be completely independent . on the regulatory issue in Northern Ireland , several law have be pass in Europe — we hear that up to 300 have go through since we agree to leave — and some of those be already in place in Northern Ireland . as part of the review , be it possible to look at those that have be implement to make sure that we get rid of those that we can ? that mechanism should be in place . the review will be base on the entirety of law , but essentially it have to look forward . the hon . Gentleman be right that there be always a pipeline of European Union law . I be a Member of the European Parliament for 10 year , and I see at first hand the quantity of law that come from the European Union . the point I would make to he be that have we be able to get to this place early , we would have have the Stormont brake in operation early , and Northern Ireland Assembly member might well have be able to trigger the Stormont brake and see it in action . I very much hope that we will see it in action in the future to demonstrate its worth in this space . it be worth make the point that while the Secretary of State be right in his response on the review , which be the subject of the rightful concern raise by my hon . friend the Member for South Antrim ( Paul Girvan ) , he be also right to focus on the democratic scrutiny and accountability mechanism . that be not before we today , but it have be legislate for and it be a change to the Northern Ireland protocol . the Secretary of State will also know that in this statutory instrument , there be a proper amendment , be make here in the UK Parliament , to section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , which relate in particular to that pipeline . to give a sense of how regulation have be change through this process , on Tuesday evening when the European Union and the UK Government reach agreement on what be contain in the red lane for rest - of - the - world product , 60 page or more of legislative text and change be publish that show the benefit . not only have this legislation deal with regulatory barrier that could be create in the future ; as part of the overall package , some of those barrier have already be remove . I could not have put it well myself . the hon . Gentleman be knowledgeable about the subject and have be well involve in the negotiation behind the document and the statutory instrument we be talk about . he be 100 % right . do my right hon . friend , who himself be on the European Scrutiny Committee , recognise that we be constantly monitor these thing ? indeed , the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) be on that Committee . I have the pleasure of serve for five year on the European Scrutiny Committee under the wise chairmanship of my hon . friend , and he be absolutely right . that scrutiny be what this House do well . the Select Committee system be there to scrutinise all aspect of legislation , what the Government do and what come our way . I know his expertise , have experience it . when we be member of the European Union , wade through the hundred of different explanatory memorandum that come the Committee ' s way be quite a job and quite a responsibility . one of the commitment we have make be that we will make sure that information be freely available to Assembly Members in Northern Ireland — when they take their seat — to ensure that they can undertake democratic scrutiny of proposal that might well affect Northern Ireland , so that they have the information they need to use the Stormont brake , should they so choose . Scrutiny be a vital part of all this . the Secretary of State and everyone on these Benches will know that over the past two year , I have do lot of consultation and have lot of discussion with party group , community group , the Orange Order , those in the NHS and many other people as well , seek their opinion . from all that come where we be today . I suspect that this legislation be not the fulfilment of everything we would wish to see , and with that in mind I ask one question . the constitutional legislation and the legislation to secure our place in the internal market be here , but I and my constituent retain some level of concern , so I press the Government for more assurance . it be highlight yesterday that european law might be overrule by the Government , but that wording suggest they may also be accept , allow Northern Ireland to diverge . I want the answer , Secretary of State . do the last word lie in this place , or do it lie with the EU when it come to make those decision ? actually , for an element of law that would be trigger by the Stormont brake , I think the big say would be with Assembly Members , though this place — Parliament — be sovereign , and the hon . Gentleman will know that this place have already choose for Great Britain to diverge from Northern Ireland . that have happen on the matter of animal welfare and livestock export , and for good reason : Northern Ireland have a land border and a vociferous and lively trade in live animal export with the Republic of Ireland , and be we to extend the ban in Great Britain to Northern Ireland , that would affect the export of about 3 , 500 cattle , 1 , 700 pig , 337 , 000 sheep , and so on . those be the figure for livestock move to Ireland from Northern Ireland in 2022 . this place already make such decision and it will continue to do so . the Secretary of State be at odd in make that argument . that be one argument that the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries make in say why Northern Ireland should be exclude , but the reason give be that , because Northern Ireland be part of the EU single market , there could not be discrimination between cattle be transport to the Republic of Ireland and cattle be transport thousand of mile away to the south of Italy . that be the real reason why this House once again find itself subservient to EU rule in Northern Ireland . I be afraid that the right hon . Gentleman be completely wrong . I know that he have write to my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries — I have his reply , which I be copy into — expound that some sort of carve - out should be make . but this be on the basis of a range of international agreement and their core principle , and that include the World Trade Organisation . as good a Eurosceptic as I be , I be careful not to blame the wrong organisation for the wrong thing . we have sign up to World Trade Organisation rule , and we benefit from those rule . one element of this issue be World Trade Organisation rule , and he be pick the wrong thing to point his finger at . those rule prevent discrimination against different country in all sort of way , and they be important , vital rule . I be afraid that on this particular point , he be completely wrong . I have long be clear to right hon . and hon . member that I serve in the government proudly as a Unionist . I be pleased that the regulation , which I commend to the House , will address the concern express by part of the community in Northern Ireland in past year that our Union of nation have be somehow diminish as a whole . the regulation demonstrate that the Government have listen so that trust can be rebuild , so that people and business can be reassure that they be in the UK ' s long - term future , and so that we can see Northern Ireland ' s political institution restore . we be obviously debate the regulation , but may I point right hon . and hon . member to annex A of the Government ' s " safeguard the Union " Command Paper , which provide an excellent summary of the historical context of the act of Union , include article 6 ? many keyboard warrior across Northern Ireland — I be not sure what they have achieve in the last eight month other than to create a whole kerfuffle — would be well advise to read it . they would see that none of the act of Union be under threat in any way . I thank my right hon . friend for make that point . he be right that a lot of noise and heat have be generate in many way by people who have do absolutely nothing in this space . they be try to cloud the reality that he express and which we have set out in annex A for everybody to see . I very much hope that right hon . and hon . member will welcome the progress we have make in deliver the agreement by support the passage of these regulation and that , in come day , they will join I in welcome the return of Stormont , so that the Assembly and the Executive may serve the people of Northern Ireland once more . I thank the Secretary of State for be generous in give way . as he know , I always try to be constructive . it be for all the people out there , include my constituent , who have concern and probably do not have trust in the Government , for genuine reason — forgive I , but we have be let down on a number of occasion — that I ask the Secretary of State to reiterate this once again ; my apology for ask he to do so . with his hand on the Dispatch Box — we all know what that mean and be aware of the duty of his position — will he answer in simple term for my constituent : do this deal constitute the renewal of our place in the constitutional and economic United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as fully and as completely as any other area in this great UK ? I believe that it do — 100 % . someone want to send good from GB to NI would naturally expect to use the new internal market lane — the green lane . who decide whether they would not be allow to do so ? would it be the EU , the UK Government or the Stormont Executive ? it be the UK Government in that area . far to that point , in respect of paragraph 96 of the Command Paper , will the Secretary of State outline whether he expect further si in the pipeline to give full effect , impact and clarity to the issue raise in this wide - range document ? we will give legal direction to the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs on these matter . we will use other legal instrument for the deal , but it be for we to give legal direction to daera on that point . we all accept that the DUP have a particular issue about all this , but do the Secretary of State accept that it be not good practice in Northern Ireland to have a one government , one party process ? will he commit in the future to have a much more inclusive process for deal with these type of issue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that point ; he make it fairly . to be honest with he , there be one party that be stay out of government , and that party represent a community . I do try to keep he as update as I could throughout the process , as we have do with the other political party , but I need to talk more to the party we need to persuade to go back into government . in future , I will always try to treat everybody equitably , but I hope the hon . Gentleman understand that I have to ensure there be an agreement that the Democratic Unionist party could stand behind so that I could start to rebuild the trust — the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) use the word " trust " — that have be lose between the Democratic Unionist party and the United Kingdom Government . that be something we have to do between the two of we . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way again . I think it have to be understand that there be more people in Northern Ireland than just the DUP and Unionism . I think nationalism feel that north - south have be undermine by the massive emphasis put on east - west . I ask he to think carefully about that . for I , the Command Paper undermine the Good Friday agreement , undermine north - south , and go far too far in the direction of the DUP ' s thinking . the hon . Gentleman be a friend of mine , so I hope that he do not mind my disagree with he on this . the Command Paper will , I hope , deliver the restoration of Stormont : the most important strand 1 institution of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . it will also allow for Ministers to be appoint to the North South Ministerial Council : an important institution in a different strand of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , which could then function properly . what the Command Paper do be allow for all strand of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement to start hum again as they should . he will have to forgive I , but I must disagree with he on that point . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for be so generous . do it not all boil down to this ? as be outline in annex A , it be important to distinguish between Northern Ireland ' s " integral place " constitutionally within the United Kingdom and its internal market , and the access it have to the single market as a result of its unique position . those two word — the difference between access and its constitutional place — be what we really need to focus on when try to square this circle . I agree with my right hon . and learn Friend , the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . he make an important point eloquently , as ever . Mr Speaker — sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be very nice to see you in your place , and I be sorry I do not see you come in — the regulation undoubtedly will strengthen Union . it be for that reason , and more , that I wholeheartedly and unequivocally commend they to the House . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his explanation of the first set of regulation that we be consider , and I join he in want to see the institution up and run again as soon as possible . I welcome the measure , and the opposition will support they . ever since our leave the EU create the problem that have cause Northern Ireland to be without a Government for two year , we have be try as a nation to find a common - sense way through . the si be a continuation of that process to balance two objective : first , to enable the free flow of trade between Northern Ireland and Great Britain ; and secondly , to make sure that good that enter the Republic across the open border meet the single market rule . we should note the further commitment , to which reference have be make , contain in the Command Paper publish yesterday . we look forward to regulation and guidance to implement they where require , perhaps with a little bit more time to read they , although I understand completely and support the timetable we be deal with today . I commend the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) for draw the House ' s attention to the annex of the Command Paper on the history . I certainly learn some thing from read it . I have hear the argument that there be always free and unfettered trade and now that have change , only to discover that the Government of Ireland Act 1920 require that the movement of good between Great Britain and Northern Ireland be treat as export and import , and that custom officer be instruct to conduct physical inspection of ship and daily sailing twice weekly , at a check rate of 28 % . it be a jolly good idea to understand one ' s history when try to deal with the problem of the future . some suggest that the act of Union should be as they be in 1801 , but my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) would be perplex to discover that a bottle of Bushmills whiskey distil in his constituency would have a £ 3 tariff add to it to be sell in Great Britain — the rest of the United Kingdom . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that we certainly do not want to go back to that ? I be a teetotaller , so perhaps I do not feel the suffering in that example in the same way as other member . however , the right hon . Gentleman be an observant student of Northern Ireland history , and he make his point extremely forcefully . do the right hon . member recognise the difference between a tariff be put on by this Parliament or the Assembly or a Parliament in Northern Ireland , where the people of the country elect representative who take a decision on tariff that act as an impediment to trade , and a tariff impose by an outside body such as the EU , which be the case in Northern Ireland ? that be how the Act of Union be be disrupt , because an outside body can interfere with it . we have see quite a lot of disruption to arrangement in recent year , have we not ? the point I try to make a moment ago be that our departure from the European Union cause a problem . everybody know that there would be a problem between Northern Ireland and the Republic , because of the open border that everyone continue to support . I think I say last week that it be about the only thing in Brexit where there be agreement . if there be a problem , we have to find a way through it . what we be grapple with here , and have do previously and may do in the future , be how to solve that problem , which be the result of a democratic decision take by the british people . turn to these particular regulation , part of they update previous legislation to include reference to the Windsor framework , which come after those piece of legislation , or reaffirm for clarity the exist legal position . I welcome the prohibition make by regulation 2 ( 3 ) of any agreement with the EU that would " create a … regulatory border between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . " however , if we be to form the next Government , Labour would seek to negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement with the EU with the intention of remove check on animal , food and plant , not only between GB and NI , but between the whole of the UK and the EU . that would benefit farmer , food business , the horticultural industry in Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom . regulation 3 amend section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act to include a reference to the Stormont brake procedure and the democratic consent vote . I note that the Secretary of State say that the Windsor Framework ( Democratic Scrutiny ) Regulations 2023 pass by Parliament last March , which I think he say he have sign , will take effect once the Assembly be back up and run . indicate assent . I see that the Secretary of State be nod . it be also important to remind ourselves of the significance of those regulation and the democratic check that they will create . the Stormont brake will be available to the Assembly when the EU seek to amend or replace exist EU good legislation in annex 2 of the framework . the Windsor framework give a new role to the Assembly to approve or reject any propose new EU legislation be add to the framework . I note that page 47 of the Command Paper state that the full operational detail for the Stormont brake will be set out " in writing " for the Assembly . can the Secretary of State confirm when that will happen and what form it will take , so that we in the House can see it ? do the right hon . Gentleman accept that there be a distinction between new and amend legislation in this context ? they be not by any mean the same thing , particularly as amend legislation can be very extensive . I take that point , but we be talk about two separate category : one be a long list relate to the legislation that form part of the original protocol in the annex ; and the other relate to new stuff come from the European Union . do the shadow Secretary of State recognise that there be a different school of thought from some people and business in Northern Ireland around the Stormont brake ? if there be a degree of delay or uncertainty in the application of an update EU regulation , that could inadvertently undermine Northern Ireland ' s dual market access , by create uncertainty for business seek to invest or remain in Northern Ireland . by far the well way be for Northern Ireland institution to talk to the European Union at the start , to make sure that our concern be reflect as fresh EU law be undertake or update . the hon . Member make an extremely powerful and useful point . the business that I have speak to in Northern Ireland support Northern Ireland ' s access to the EU market . in choose to pull or not pull the Stormont brake there be many consideration , which I be sure elect politician in Northern Ireland will take into consideration . let we be honest : it depend on what we be talk about . what impact will it have ? will it have a really bad effect , in which case people might reach for the brake ? other time it may be a perfectly sensible change and nobody need to worry about it . but there be a mechanism that give Northern Ireland politician and the Assembly the chance to decide between the two . far to that point , which be a very good one , would the EU not decide to use its power if Stormont try to use the brake too often and change the amount of EU law that apply ? the Stormont brake be the result of a negotiation between the Government and the European Union . it be a really big step forward — it be why we be have this discussion now , and I support it . anything be possible in the future with regard to what one or another party that be engage in continue discussion and negotiation may seek to do , but we have a deal with the European Union and it expect we to honour the Windsor framework — a point I have make in the House many time before — and we would expect the EU to do entirely the same . nobody can guard with absolute certainty against what may happen in the future ; we have to deal with the world as it be today . what people have miss over the past few week be the cross - party support for both the Windsor framework and this deal . the reality be that anybody campaign , or continue to campaign , against the decision democratically take by the Democratic Unionist party be campaign against something that this House have support in voting number I could have only dream of when I be the Government Chief Whip during Brexit . this House support the Windsor framework and the deal secure by the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister . the right hon . Gentleman make an extremely powerful point . I hope everyone will notice the near — if not complete — unanimity that we will see reflect in the House today . those who wish to rail against reality and the fact that we have to make choice and deal with issue as they arise , as the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) have so eloquently point out , achieve nothing and contribute nothing . what the House be try to do be to take this forward and , crucially , to restore the institution . I be not try to rail against reality ; I be just seek the truth . would it be a fair summing - up of the Labour party ' s position that it be supremely relaxed about all these future trading arrangement because , if there be to be a Labour Government , they will have absolutely no intention of diverge far away from the EU from a deregulatory point of view ? if the right hon . Gentleman become Secretary of State , there be no danger that any civil servant will say , " Minister , be careful about this . " labour be very relaxed about this matter . it be go to get close and close to the EU , isn ' t it ? it be very kind of the right hon . gentleman to say that we be intensely relaxed about the prospect that we might form the next government , and who be I to disagree with he in that observation ? the point about divergence be that it be a choice . it be strike to note the number of instance since we leave the European Union when the current Government decide that they be go to diverge , and then suddenly have second thought about it because it do not really make a lot of sense . I make no apology for have give the example of the veterinary SPS agreement that we would like to reach , because it would help our business in the UK , business in Northern Ireland and business in the European Union . that be my definition of common - sense negotiation — the decision have be make , but that do not mean Britain can not seek to improve the relationship we have with the European Union in our interest and the interest of our european neighbour . I also welcome regulation 3 ( 3 ) , which would require a Minister before the Second reading of a Bill contain provision that would affect trade between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom either to make a statement that it would not have such an effect , or to set out the reason why the Government want to proceed none the less . it may be difficult at this stage , but I wonder whether the Secretary of State in wind up could give we an example of the circumstance in which Ministers might want to make use of the provision in propose new section 13c ( 2 ) ( b ) to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act , find at the top of page 4 of the regulation . in other word , in what circumstance would the Government want to proceed with legislation even though it would have an adverse effect ? I welcome the clarification make in regulation 4 regard any independent review that may follow the democratic consent vote . that vote by Assembly Members must take place , as I understand it , by the end of this year . have the Secretary of State have any discussion with Northern Ireland political party as to when , exactly , that vote might take place , or do he intend to do so , or be it entirely a matter for those party ? I will return in the subsequent debate to the matter I wish to raise on the UK internal market regulation , Madam Deputy Speaker . I now bring my remark to a close . there be obviously a big time pressure on this debate . I want to bring the Secretary of State back in at 1 . 49 pm , so I urge colleague to be brief if they possibly can . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I will certainly bear that exhortation in mind , Madam Deputy Speaker . this debate have properly focus on the statutory instrument that will amend primary legislation through the power of the 2018 Act , which my right hon . friend the Member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) and I both spend a lot of time deal with in its enactment . however , it be right to look again at what be outline in the helpful annex a to the Command Paper , in term of the history and the legal background to what the party have be deal with and why it be that many of the argument from the naysayer do not pass close scrutiny at all . I be delighted to see on page 53 of the Command Paper a clear exposition of the position with regard to the act of Union — I say the act of Union because , of course , there be more than the one in 1801 . since that time the act have be amend , and not just by the seismic event of 1921 ; they be amend right through the 19th century , and indeed beyond , to take into account the evolve position of Northern Ireland . just as every other part of our United Kingdom have evolve , so have Northern Ireland . it be right to pause and say that the argument that be assert , in particular in the Supreme Court , about what we can now call the old protocol be inconsistent with the act of Union be just wrong . that point be never at issue before that Court . the Court specifically say that it do not have to rule on it . a lot of this be quite surreal , because it fall into the ground of piffle . I remember sit in the Select Committee on Northern Ireland , and the then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) , tell I , in October 2019 , " this will all be light touch — you win ' t even notice it . " we have spend the last four year now try to unravel the heavy hand of Europe and still need to prise those finger off what be happen in Northern Ireland . we have also be tell that yes , there be a problem , and we all now know what the problem be : this House fail to stand up to Europe and allow Northern Ireland to be a buffer zone to protect its single market and throw our single market down the toilet in the process . I feel the emotion and hear the proper point that the hon . Gentleman make . the process become the legislative and constitutional equivalent of brain surgery , and the patient be Northern Ireland . everybody be feel it . this be not just an archaic debate : this be a debate about the business and economy of Northern Ireland . this be real and important for the business that right hon . and hon . member represent — absolutely right — which be why the hon . Gentleman ' s party should claim proper credit for the painstaking approach that he and his colleague , include the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , have show in this process . they have not take no for an answer . they have actually seek to try to reach a solution and be part of that brain surgery process — that neurological change . but I say gently to the hon . Gentleman that there be a distinction between the integral part that Northern Ireland play in our United Kingdom constitution and our internal market — our single market — and the inevitable access that Northern Ireland will have to the EU single market . why ? because of the nature of the border that exist in Northern Ireland , the unique nature of its status and all the history and , indeed , the reality that go with that . that be why there be not go to be an elegant or perfect solution to all this . it be always go to involve compromise . compromise be a difficult word — it imply weakness and fudge ; it imply a lack of clarity — but right hon . and hon . member opposite have recognise that that be the world in which they operate , which be why we be able to be here today to debate important change that will underpin not just declaratory word about Northern Ireland ' s place within the UK internal market , but concrete action that be set out in the Command Paper . I be think in particular of the operation of the Stormont brake . yes , we need to see more guidance about its operation — we need to understand the evidential threshold that will be require for mla to bring the brake to the attention of the UK Government to lodge their objection ; that work have to be do — but today will allow it to happen . in its judgment , the Supreme Court look in particular at the question of the sovereignty of Parliament , and affirm that — as article 6 of the act of Union itself recognise — it be the most fundamental rule of UK constitutional law . there be nothing novel , unexpected or controversial about that , which be why some of the language that emerge from that case be not just unhelpful but wrong . I know that the right hon . member for Lagan Valley , the leader of the Democratic Unionist party , share my view . it be time for leadership , and leadership mean be straightforward and get it right . that be why I commend the right hon . Gentleman and his colleague for the work that they have do : they get it right , and as a result of their approach we be able today , I hope , to pass this much - need change . I welcome it warmly , I commend my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , and I commend this measure to the House . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . my party and I have never make any secret of our disagreement with Brexit and the manner in which it be deliver . that have certainly cause issue for we in Scotland . however , we broadly welcome the point that matter have reach today . it have be a long road . have clarity about Northern Ireland ' s constitutional status be , I believe , helpful , as indeed be the reaffirmation of the principle of consent , which be the basis on which many of we in Scotland , not just in Northern Ireland , understand the Union of which we be , willingly or otherwise , a part . the manner in which Brexit have come about have , as I say , cause issue in Scotland . it have place our own constitutional question back at the forefront and under renew scrutiny , but despite the tension that that have release , or bring about , politically , I hope that my party and I have be able to understand and empathise with some of the concern of people in Northern Ireland , and not just over the way in which Brexit , as originally constitute , threaten to undermine the basis on which peace and progress have be secure over the previous quarter century . I hope that my party and I have also be able to understand and reflect on the fact that aspect of the protocol have leave Unionists in Northern Ireland in particular feeling that they have be in some way separate , or set on a course of be separate , from the UK . in that regard , as I have say on a number of occasion , we never consider it unreasonable in and of itself , in the light of experience , that the UK Government should seek to renegotiate , or to rework , aspect of the deal that have be put in place . although there be certainly opportunity to recast a deal which , I would argue , could have work well in the interest of all part of the UK — I would highlight sanitary and phytosanitary alignment as be essential to that — and while I regret that those option have not be pursue today , I do not begrudge Northern Ireland a single aspect of what have be agree in recent day or what appear in the statutory instrument . the hon . Gentleman say that he do not begrudge we the achievement of some of the objective that we set out to achieve . do he agree that one of the advantage that we have and Scotland do not have be a 300 - mile unclosable land border that make virtual accommodation with access to the Irish Republic and onwards into the wide EU market almost impossible to prevent ? the border be certainly a complex one to try to police , and that have be at the forefront of many of the discussion . by contrast , we have what would be a very straightforward border between Scotland and England be it ever to take on international significance . there appear to be something of a contradiction , in that Northern Ireland can not conform to the requirement of the single market to maintain access there , and also the UK internal market , in the event of a future divergence . that bring to mind paragraph 146 of the Command Paper , which provide that " the Government will legislate to require that a Minister in charge … must assess whether or not " something " have an impact on trade between Great Britain and Northern Ireland " and make statement . that contrast with new section 38a ( 1 ) of the SI , which state : " his Majesty ' s Government must not ratify a Northern Ireland - relate agreement with the European Union that would create a new regulatory border " . a Minister might lay a statement before Parliament to that effect , but that do not mean that the Minister ' s opinion will necessarily be share , or make the statement any less subjective . minister might be capable of think six impossible thing before breakfast , and indeed at time during the Brexit debate it seem that that be a necessary qualification for office . nevertheless , I would be grateful if the Secretary of State , in sum up the debate , could clarify how any such dispute might ultimately be determine and resolve . with these publication , we appear to have reach something of a conclusion . it have be a thoroughly exhausting process , which have occupy talent and energy — not just in the Government and Parliament here , but across swathe of public life in Northern Ireland and beyond — that could , I believe , have be direct more productively . much work have build up in the absence of an Assembly , but hopefully these provision will allow for all the political mechanism to bring the Assembly back . it be important for that to happen because a peaceful , prosperous Northern Ireland , at ease with itself , in control of its future and able to be respectful of all shade of opinion , be manifestly in the interest of all people in all these island . to the extent that the statutory instrument pave a way towards restore that state of affair , we support they . rise — order . let I once again emphasise the need for brevity so that we can get the majority of people in . section 38 of the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act 2020 prescribe that parliamentary sovereignty will prevail , notwithstanding section 7a of the 2018 Act . the wording be a bit difficult to read because one have to go through all the enactment to ensure that one have get it right , but it do say " include the Windsor Framework " , so for practical purpose our parliamentary sovereignty subsist . however , I find it incongruous , and rather Lewis Carroll , that we should end up continue to maintain EU law in relation to Northern Ireland . I could make a long speech about this , but I will not do so . the fact be that no man can serve two master . in respect of the wording of the statute , let I paraphrase the word of Humpty Dumpty : word mean what we choose they to mean , and the question be who be to be master — that be all . this be the problem , this be the dilemma , this be the basis on which most of the controversy occur , and I regret to have to say that it may ultimately be decide , on some day in the future , by the prospect of a referendum . that , of course , be what Sinn F é in have be ask for . I personally believe that we should protect Northern Ireland , and I have always do everything in my power to do just that . have say that , I should also mention that my family have be involve in the irish question since the 1840 in this House — for instance , John Bright and Frederick Lucas , the Member of Parliament for County Meath . I make that point to emphasise that I take this very seriously , and , indeed , I pay respect to the member of the DUP for the way in which they have fight for their interest . there be some measure in the statutory instrument that I can understand as have benefit , but ultimately the question will turn on the issue of whether , give the constitutional framework within which this be be present , with all the assurance that we be hear and all the hopeful aspect — which I expect to be deliver — we find that it will be decide by the test of time . we will see whether it work . there will be continue argument and continue debate , but unfortunately I have to say that , just as with section 2 of the European Communities Act 1972 , there be no way in which section 8C of the 2018 Act have anything other than the same fundamental limitation as regulation under that section , in that they can not contradict or restrict the scope of EU law . it have to be say , because it be the honest truth . however , that do not alter the fact that effort can be make ; the Stormont brake may come in and may be able to make change — I say everything with reservation . I vote against the Windsor framework , because I foresaw that issue of this kind would arise . I pay tribute to all the people involve in try to mitigate the ultimate impact of the Windsor framework , but the scope of EU law that still remain leave I with serious concern . as Chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee , I end by say that we will be monitor this and we be concern — I be concern . the devolved Assembly be a democratic plus : we can not issue order from Westminster to Northern Ireland if the people do not want it . the bottom line be that those in the DUP have a real issue on their hand with Sinn F é in . be that as it may , I believe they will do everything in their power to maintain their democratic right . the Chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee , who be my friend , have outline his concern about the constitutional future of Northern Ireland . he will know that , legislatively , in 1998 it be settle that the future of Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK be base solely on the decision make by the people of Northern Ireland . he will remember that in 2000 Gerry Adams say that there would be a united Ireland by 2016 . he will also know that today , in 2024 , the Government who will have to decide whether there should be a border poll have declare in the Command Paper , " safeguard the Union " , on page 68 , paragraph 3 : " on the basis of all recent polling , the Government see no realistic prospect of a border poll lead to a united Ireland . " I be extremely glad to hear the hon . Gentleman make that point . to conclude , I simply say that you can read the crystal ball , but the question be : can you always read the book ? it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) ; we truly value his continue interest in Northern Ireland . the problem for DUP Members be that the origin of our difficulty be the withdrawal agreement itself and the decision to go with the Northern Ireland protocol . sadly , it place Northern Ireland in a situation where we be separate from the rest of the UK in key element of the benefit that ought to have flow from Brexit . my task and that of my colleague ever since have be to repair the damage that decision do , and it be work in progress ; I do not pretend that we have complete the task . I recognise there be ongoing concern about how the new arrangement will work in practice , and it will be our task to hold the Government to account on their commitment and ensure that they be honour in full and deliver . that be why my party executive mandate I , as party leader , to proceed on the basis that we need the Government to progress key element of the arrangement before we would recall the Assembly and restore the Executive . I welcome the publication of , and the opportunity to debate , the statutory instrument . they amend key constitutional law of the UK in a way that , in my humble opinion , strengthen Northern Ireland ' s place within our United Kingdom and reaffirm our place in the UK , underpin by the act of Union , and by the principle of consent that be at the heart of the Belfast agreement and the 1998 legislation . that be to say , as my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have state , that the will of the people of Northern Ireland will ultimately determine our future . nevertheless , it be welcome that this Parliament , which be sovereign in our United Kingdom , reassert its sovereignty in regard to Northern Ireland and reaffirm our place within the UK . I thank my right hon . friend and colleague for bring that forward . he be absolutely right to state the fact — I say this , with respect , to the Secretary of State and the Government — of the distrust that many unionist have for this process . the opinion of this House on sovereignty should be clear , and my party leader have seek not simply to secure but to future - proof the legislation and the change . the difficulty be that many people I represent have state their lack of trust in the Government , who tell we that they would give we their good and do not do so . how can the Government and the Secretary of State reassure the unionist people whom we represent that our sovereignty be protect ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he restate a point he make early to the Secretary of State and he will have hear the response give . it be the task of all DUP member to ensure that the Government deliver , and we bank the gain we have make in this process and move forward on that basis , recognise not only that there be more to do , but that there be new opportunity to seek and secure change . the Secretary of State refer early to my detractor , who have be very vocal , even challenge I to a debate on these issue . my challenge back to they be clear and simple . as I say last week in this House , when they be in a position to set out clearly for the people of Northern Ireland what they have achieve , the change they have secure to the protocol and to the Windsor framework , and the change they have secure to safeguard our place in the Union , I will consider discussion with they . but what I will not do be accept their criticism of what we have achieve on safeguard the Union — real achievement and real change , which my party have long seek . we be disappoint when the Government abandon the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill , because all DUP Members recognise that those proposal provide a way forward for Northern Ireland . we have seek to incorporate into these new arrangement many aspect of that Bill , but we have go far and achieve more . we will come to this more fully on the second SI before we this afternoon , but that Bill , which be endorse fully by my parliamentary party , propose a green lane and a red lane as the mean by which good would move between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . what we have achieve be to remove the need for the green lane , because we have restore Northern Ireland ' s place within the UK ' s internal market . under these new arrangement , good move from Great Britain to Northern Ireland and stay within the UK will flow through the UK internal market system . there be no need for a so - call " green lane " . there be a need for only one lane , which deal with good that flow through our Northern Ireland port and onwards to the EU or that be deem at risk of enter the EU . the red lane be endorse and support by my party , and every one of my mp vote for that proposal . that be my mandate and it be what I have secure . it remove the irish sea border within our internal market of the United Kingdom , and it mean the only check we need to carry out be those on good move into , or at risk of go into , the European Union . that be what we state in our response to the Windsor framework , endorse unanimously by all our party officer . we make clear what we want , and I have go far even than that response in remove the green lane from the new arrangement . this be progress . do it give we everything we want ? it do not . my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) have be assiduous in his pursuit of a solution on veterinary medicine . he have work with the Government and campaign alongside representative of the Northern Ireland agrifood sector . as a result of that work , in the Command Paper we now have clarity on the position of the UK Government . in the absence of an agreement with the European Union that maintain Northern Ireland ' s full access to UK veterinary medicine , the UK Government will legislate to protect our access to veterinary medicine in the United Kingdom . that be a commitment give by the Government and I commend my hon . friend for his work . that be the business we be in — it be unfinished business . we will continue to work to ensure the Government deliver on their commitment in the Command Paper on veterinary medicine . I thank the leader of the party for his comment . this be crucial : it affect every single person in Northern Ireland because it be about food security across the whole of the United Kingdom . the Northern Ireland food industry feed about 17 million people , not only in Northern Ireland , but across the United Kingdom and the world . it be vital to our food security . damage it , as be happen under the previous agreement , be wholly destructive to food health and farming . I also welcome paragraph 22 , which address the movement of cattle and livestock . that be significant for our farming industry . I agree that more need to be do and I will hold the Secretary of State to account to get that legislation on the statute book if Europe do not move . I need add nothing to the point make by my hon . friend . we welcome the explicit reference in the Command Paper to Northern Ireland ' s part in the economy of the United Kingdom , include the fact that we be within the custom territory of the United Kingdom . we be part of the UK internal market and it be important that that be maintain . may I put it on record that I think the right hon . Gentleman have do a lot of good work over the past couple of week and he have be very brave ? it be not easy for a Member to face down people in their own constituency , and it be important that he do . may I also put it on record that the Social Democratic and Labour party do not support the Command Paper ? we think it have move far beyond the principle set out in the Good Friday agreement . it undermine north - south co - operation and have far too much focus on east - west co - operation . move on from that point , we need to ensure that any future negotiation be do with all party and both government , so that everybody can feel comfortable in the result . the hon . Member have make his point with fortitude and determination , but he will understand that I make no apology as a Unionist for have a focus on protect , preserve , strengthen and bind together our United Kingdom , of which Northern Ireland be a proud part . today be an important moment for we as Unionists . the strengthening of our constitutional position within the United Kingdom be important because our primary focus have be on the protection of the Union . in that context , I welcome and draw attention to annex a , paragraph 47 of the Command Paper publish yesterday : " Northern Ireland ' s place in the economic union remain the single most important factor in ensure its prosperity " . that be the economic union of the United Kingdom : we sell more good to Great Britain than anywhere else in the world , and we want to maintain our ability to trade freely within our own country . these new arrangement guarantee our unfettered access to the internal market of the United Kingdom , not just now but in all scenario in the future . the safeguard build into these arrangement will protect our place in the economic union of the United Kingdom . I echo the right hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment about paragraph 47 in annex A . I want to comment on the good will and character through these last month that have be essential to achieve this progress and these gain . do he agree with I that the polling reference by the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) be not as important as the stamp of approval from this House that come through good debate and scrutiny ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , his continue interest in Northern Ireland and his work in this place to strengthen and protect our Union . he make a strong point , which I welcome . I acknowledge the point make by my right hon . friend , but do he also accept that , in propose new section 13c of the Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , the Government still reserve a right in the statute book to introduce law that will interfere with trade in Northern Ireland ? I urge my right hon . friend to read all the proposal . if he do , he will see that a new statutory duty will be introduce that will ensure that in circumstance where there be the risk of divergence , the Minister in charge of the new policy or law will come to this House and make a statement , not only inform the House of any potential impact on Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom internal market , but set out the measure that the Government must take to ameliorate that situation . that be set out clearly in the Command Paper . it be a commitment by the Government , on which we intend to hold they to account . go forward , it be important that we have a means of scrutiny and cut the EU pipeline , as we have through the amendment to section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . People tell we , by the way , Madam Deputy Speaker , that we would not achieve legal change , and yet that amendment to section 7a cut the EU pipeline and end the automatic alignment of Northern Ireland with EU law . that be something this party can take great credit for , because we have achieve what none of our detractor have be capable of achieve . that offer we the opportunity to influence clearly , as we state in our seven test , how we might proceed . in conclusion , on behalf of my party , I welcome this legislation . it be important constitutional legislation that safeguard our place in the United Kingdom . we will hear later about further change to the law that will protect our place in the UK internal market . take together with all the proposal in the Command Paper , I believe we have a basis for move forward . I pay tribute to the nationalist and other party who have be patient during the process , and to the Labour party for its support of the Government , the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister . these be very important constitutional safeguard , as we have hear , but this SI be about much more than the constitution . it unlock something much big : get back into Stormont , make Northern Ireland a success and make it work . this SI be about people , public sector pay , health , charity that be desperate to get move again , school , agriculture and the economic growth of Northern Ireland . I commend this SI and believe that it will get the full support of the House . with the leave of the house , I will answer a few of the point that have be raise . we have hear a wide and varied range of contribution on all aspect of the regulation from member across the House . in my closing remark , I wish to take the opportunity to address those point . first , I thank the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) for the way that he have approach everything we have do . he ask a few question , which I shall try to answer . he talk about these measure and how we will be protect the european single market with this package . what these measure also do , which be unbelievably important , be protect our internal market at the same time . [ interruption . ] I know that the right hon . Gentleman know that , but I just want to emphasise the point , because it be important . he ask for an example — I think that it be in propose new section 13c introduce through the regulation — of where there would be a significant adverse effect . I can refer he well to the example I give of the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill , where there be an obvious advantage to Northern Ireland to be different , which we take on board . he very kindly show some ankle on Labour ' s position on our future relationship with the EU . can I beg he to continue to do that ? while we all enjoy a good political debate — I will not go too far into this point , because we be in a consensual place — we would very much like to explore exactly what labour ' s position be on European Union free movement and a whole host of other thing . the right hon . member make reference to the fact that , within the legislation , there be now a safeguard around significant disadvantage towards Northern Ireland and significant adverse effect . do he not agree , though , that the significant adverse effect be very subjective ? it have no concrete definition and section 13b allow the Minister to go ahead anyway , even if it do cause a significant adverse effect . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . before I answer it , may I say that I owe she an apology , because I completely misheard her question yesterday ? I be have trouble hear she — I think it might be my age , but hopefully it be the microphone — so I want to apologise for not answer her question properly . I disagree with she and I think a write ministerial statement allow this place to scrutinise what the Minister be do and to allow more transparency . I also wish to make a point — I hope that I will not punch a bruise here — about the intervention of the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) on the right hon . member for Leeds Central . the hon . member for North Antrim say that tariff between GB and Northern Ireland would be acceptable if they be the will of the Parliament . I disagree . I think a £ 3 tariff on Bushmills would not be that great . none the less , all of the arrangement in the framework be give full effect by the will of this Parliament , and so , by his definition , it must be completely acceptable . I thank he for his support . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . United Kingdom Internal Market I beg to move , that the draft Windsor Framework ( UK Internal Market and Unfettered Access ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . it be the view of the Government and , I believe , of the overwhelming number of right hon . and hon . member across the House that the Union ought not be reduce to matter of the law or the constitution alone . Ours be a thriving economic , cultural and political Union whose health be insure , in no small part , by the free flow of trade across it . enhance that economic aspect of the Union be the purpose of this second set of regulation before the House today . the view of business and trader on the progress that we have make be also important in the context of today ' s debate . I be pleased to confirm that the early reaction from business have be promise . the view of a collaboration of 14 key Northern Ireland industry body be clear yesterday in say that they welcome the agreement . the Government be clear that the old protocol create unacceptable barrier within our internal market , and I invite anyone to consider the full implementation of the old protocol against what we have achieve in the Windsor framework . the Windsor framework take major step forward , and I acknowledge that this be first and foremost an achievement of the Democratic Unionist party and also a great achievement of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . the framework restore the functioning of the UK internal market by ensure the smooth flow of trade within the UK , and disapplie a range of EU law , include ensure that Northern Ireland benefit from the same vat and alcohol taxis as the rest of the UK . member of the House can also be encourage by the smooth functioning of the framework since October 2023 , when the first phase of arrangement come on stream , support trade between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I should just say that colleague do ask I how it be go . I say , " have you see any news on it ? " of course , no one have ; it have be go very well , and I want to thank and congratulate all those official here and in Northern Ireland who have make that possible . these regulation go far in that aim to strengthen our UK internal market now and in the long term . follow the agreement of the Windsor framework , the border target operating model set out that we will begin phase in check and control for irish good and non - qualify good move from the island of Ireland to Great Britain from 31 January — indeed from yesterday . this be a powerful demonstration of Northern Ireland ' s integral place in the UK ' s internal market , and it rebut incorrect claim that it be instead a member of the EU single market . the reality be that third country member of the EU single market will now have full third country process apply , while Northern Ireland ' s business will have full unfettered access to their most important market in Great Britain . the Minister be absolutely right . perhaps the most powerful illustration of the change that we have secure be to consider what will happen now on the ferry route between Dublin and Holyhead as a result of these new arrangement . a Northern Ireland haulier use that service will board the ferry , travel to Holyhead , leave the ferry and travel straight out of the port and on to their destination , with no customs procedure and with full unfettered access . in contrast , a southern irish haulier arrive at Holyhead will be subject to full UK custom procedure at the port before they can proceed . do he join I in welcome Northern Ireland ' s restoration fully within the UK internal market ? yes . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right in what he have just set out , and I do join he in that . it be a proud day for I , as it be for he , and I join other Members in congratulate he on his courage in bring all of we this far . as a result of these regulation , we now have guarantee for Northern Ireland good move to the rest of the UK , via Dublin . this unfettered access be future - proof , regardless of how rule evolve in either Northern Ireland or Great Britain . these regulation will more squarely focus the benefit of unfettered access on Northern Ireland trader . the regulation tackle avoidance of the rule and ensure that , for agri - food good to benefit from unfettered access in avoid sanitary and phytosanitary process , they must be dispatch from registered Northern Ireland food and feed operator . we will also expressly affirm through these regulation that export procedure will not be apply to good move from Northern Ireland to other part of the UK ' s internal market . it have be say that maybe 80 % of good move from GB to NI will be able to use the internal market lane . why will 20 % not be able to do so , and why would the UK Government , who I be tell be in charge , not want to ensure that practically all good use the internal market lane ? with great respect to my right hon . friend , with whom I have go a very long way in this cause , he might like to revisit the text . the point be that the 80 % of good go on that route be stay in Northern Ireland ; they be UK good . the other 20 % be good that be go on to the European Union . that be the point : 80 % be UK internal market trade , and 20 % be trade go on to the European Union . rise — will the Minister give way ? I will . I can not say that I be astonish ; this be the important moment . do the Minister accept that all the statistic show that it be not true that 20 % of the trade that go through Northern Ireland go to the Irish Republic ? in fact , it be about 0 . 1 % to 0 . 4 % . much of that trade , which will go through the red lane , consist of good go into Northern Ireland , either to warehouse or to manufacturer in Northern Ireland . they might never go near the Irish Republic . they might stay in Northern Ireland , go back to GB , or go to the rest of the world , yet such product will still be subject to check go into Northern Ireland . I would not accept that . I be not in a position to set out the statistic , and I do not doubt that the statistic need some work apply to they . it pain I to say this , as I have always regard the right hon . Gentleman as a great friend — he and I have walk a long way together on this and I have always regard he as an ideological bedfellow , both on the Union and on Brexit — but as his group leader , the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , say early , we vote for , and fervently support , the protocol Bill . we say that we be willing to have a red lane in order to safeguard the legitimate interest of our friend and partner — and family member , as the irish ambassador Martin Fraser say . this be always a family dispute , and we be always go to get through it . our friend in Ireland , and indeed in the EU , have legitimate interest , which we should have the humility to respect . even if we have act unilaterally as a single unite Parliament , ride roughshod over any international negotiation and just do what suit ourselves with the protocol Bill , we would have implement the red lane . I be afraid that I will part company now with anyone who say otherwise . we would rightly have implement the red lane , even act unilaterally , out of respect for the legitimate interest of our friend and trading partner . will the Minister join I in welcome the announcement on Tuesday of agreement on a joint legal text that will significantly change the status of good come from the rest of the world into Great Britain and travel on to Northern Ireland ? the effect of that change , which be part of the arrangement and the publish Command Paper , will be that some 4 million good movement between Great Britain and Northern Ireland will now be move out of the red lane and into the UK internal market system . that be this party delivering , and secure real change that ensure that more good flow freely between Great Britain and Northern Ireland , save for those go into the EU or that be at risk of do so because they be part of a manufacturing process for good be sell to the EU . I strongly welcome that intervention . I think that the right hon . Gentleman be go to mention the draft joint agreement on tariff rate quota . for a while I be concern that TRQs need to be apply to Northern Ireland so that Northern Ireland could share fully in the benefit of free trade agreement with the rest of the world . I hope to return to this later , but in case I do not have the opportunity to do so , I want to say what an extraordinary situation Northern Ireland be now in . Northern Ireland be not in the single market . I draw everyone ' s attention to page 4 of the Command Paper , which set out checkmark compare Northern Ireland with Ireland , as a member of the EU , and with Norway , which be a member of the single market through the european economic area but be not in the custom union or the European Union . Northern Ireland really have the minimum of EU law compatible with unfettered — or privilege , perhaps — good access to the EU market , and consistent with have an open , infra - structure - free border . I wonder at people who think that we could leave the European Union and establish a hard border , or do absolutely nothing about the border . we be always go to leave the European Union and have special arrangement in relation to Northern Ireland . this be a moment of great feeling for I , because before the referendum vote , I and other colleague set up a committee of Eurosceptics to consider how we might deal with these issue . I confess that we do not have the SPS and custom expertise to proceed . that then become the great story of this battle . if the United Kingdom have unite in accept the result of the referendum , if this Parliament have unite in go forward with resolve to further our own interest as an independent nation state outside the EU , but crucially with the humility to respect the legitimate interest of our friend and partner , and if from the beginning we have have unite resolve and clarity of vision , I do not doubt that in a spirit of friendship and good will — the kind that exist today between Ireland and we , and between the European Union and we , thank to the work of the Secretary of State , the Prime Minister and other — we would have be , as we be now , in a totally transform position to make our way forward as friend , respectful of their interest and resolve on our . that be not what happen . the House do not need I to rehearse it . it have take eight year of drama for we to arrive at this moment , when we have reduce EU law to this extent and put in place a red lane to protect the legitimate interest of Ireland and the EU . that be something that we should all be very proud of , after everything that we have face and all the risk that could have put we in a far bad position . I totally understand the need for a red lane to ensure that good go into the Republic of Ireland be check , but there be a business in Northern Ireland 98 % of whose sale be into Northern Ireland . the stuff all come to it in one container . maybe 2 % of that load might make its way into the Irish Republic as part of a service agreement with another dealer . I be talk about a major firm in my constituency that have an all - Ireland approach . that mean that the red lane apply to every single item , even though 98 % of its stuff be use in Northern Ireland , Scotland or England . it be a main distributor , and it will end up have to put all its good through that . a job of work might need to be do to try to ameliorate its problem . the hon . Gentleman be right that a job of work will need to be do ; I assure he that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have just say that of course it do . I be grateful that we will be do that further work in a spirit of good will and co - operation through the joint committee with the European Union . if the hon . Gentleman drop an email to my Northern Ireland Office address , I shall be glad to visit the firm with he , bring official , and we will see whether we can move far to assist it . I need to find out more about its exact circumstance . my goodness , that be a long series of intervention . this legislation ensure that we can avoid any unnecessary gold - plate in the implementation of new arrangement through new statutory guidance on section 46 of the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 , set out how public authority should have special regard to Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK ' s internal market and custom territory , and the need to maintain the free flow of good from NI to GB . we will take a power through the regulation to issue such statutory guidance , and public authority will be require to have regard to it . those change to the law will help to ensure that public authority take every proper effort to prevent new barrier to intra - UK trade . in do so , they will maintain and strengthen the health of the UK internal market in the long term . one issue that greatly vex those in my party be that farmer in my constituency , and in other , have say that vet now cost even more , as they have to source medicine and device from an acceptable source . the Command Paper suggest that the issue have not be resolve but will be work on . be that a firm demand on the Government , or be it just another work group that will talk about thing ? my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) have be at the fore on this . we need a person on that committee to push thing forward . if we have a solution through the committee , we need a timescale for delivery . we understand that point and we be listen to the hon . Gentleman and other . we be resolute that of course Northern Ireland must have proper access to veterinary medicine , and will be glad to work with he and other . he will appreciate what the priority be and have be , and we will certainly continue to make pursue veterinary medicine a high priority . I be personally resolute on the issue and look forward to pursue it . the regulation must be see in the context of the overall package agree between the Government and the DUP . the passage of these regulation demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to take forward that whole package and to maintain the participation and trust of the whole community in Northern Ireland ' s political process and the Stormont institution go forward . if I may touch on what the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) say early , I , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and the whole Government be completely committed to the Belfast / Good Friday Agreement in all its dimension . as I say to one nationalist politician — about a year ago now , if I recall — it be perfectly possible to be a unionist and support the Belfast / Good Friday Agreement in all its dimension , just as it be possible to be a nationalist or a republican and support the Belfast / Good Friday Agreement in all its dimension . it be the beauty and the triumph of the agreement that we can all support it and move forward . I be try to say this as gently as possible : I can understand a degree of discomfort from the hon . Gentleman , because this be a big breakthrough for Unionism . a Unionist Conservative Government have agree to do unionist thing with the Democratic Unionist Party , and that be something I be very proud of . however , that do not in any way diminish our impartiality , or our commitment to govern or see to the government of Northern Ireland in a proper manner . rise — before I give way to the hon . Gentleman , may I just say that I think , after the experience of the last eight year — perhaps the last 14 — I need defer to no one in my vociferous commitment to democratic self - determination . the Minister say he support the Good Friday agreement in all its part . do he support the bit that say that the Government should be rigorously impartial ? yes , I — [ interruption . ] I do not quite hear the comment from the leader of the DUP . not on the Union ! it have long be say that this be the Conservative and Unionist party and we have long be understand to be a Unionist party . this agreement be entirely consistent with both our Unionism and our full respect for all dimension of the Belfast / Good Friday Agreement . we will continue to govern in a spirit of good will and impartiality . will my hon . friend give way ? I will , but after I have give way to my right hon . and learn Friend , I will make progress and finish so that other colleague can have their say . I have listen carefully to the intervention from the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) and the concern that he and other will have about the scrapping of the legal obligation with regard to the all - island economy . be the point not that while , as a UK Government , we have to uphold the rule that apply within our United Kingdom and the promotion of our own internal market , that do not detract from the access to the single market that Northern Ireland business will continue to enjoy ? that be the compromise that have be reach here . therefore there be not a binary either / or choice ; the hon . Gentleman ' s concern can largely be meet and continue to be meet in a way that be fully in accordance with the Good Friday / Belfast Agreement . I agree with my right hon . and learn Friend , who demonstrate his expertise . I look forward as much as anyone to the re - establishment of the Assembly and the Executive , and along with that the re - establishment of the north - south institution . they be much need and I look forward to their work . I do not mind admit that I find myself able to work constructively with politician of all political party in Northern Ireland , and I be glad to do so . let I return , in concluding , to what be at stake in this process . I firmly believe that all party in this House and all party eligible to form part of an Executive want Northern Ireland to work . I have see what unite political leader in Northern Ireland : a real determination to make life well for their constituent — and , my goodness , on a wide range of front that be necessary — and to allow Northern Ireland to grasp the opportunity of the future — and what opportunity they be . I elaborate on some of the thing Northern Ireland have before it right now . if we combine the institutional arrangement before Northern Ireland with the very substantial financial package to transform public service and deal with the public finance , and if Northern irish politician reach out and grasp the opportunity now before they , they can make Northern Ireland a beacon to the world — a beacon of prosperity and , I hope , of reconciliation . these regulation be part of that process and I commend they to everyone in the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I begin by agree with the Minister that business in Northern Ireland want to make the current and future arrangement work , that they want they to work well and that there be huge potential for the people of Northern Ireland in the economic benefit that its current and future circumstance provide it . I have some specific point about the regulation — I see the Minister clearly relish respond to those . paragraph 81 of the Command Paper state : " we be now change arrangement … to ensure … that check be eliminate save for those conduct by UK authority need for the protection of the UK ' s internal market on a risk and intelligence basis . will the Minister clarify which check on good move from Great Britain to Northern Ireland will be get rid of ? be he refer to identity check , check on paperwork or something else ? at the moment , about 10 % of good use what be call the green lane — which will become the UK internal market lane — be subject to some check on paperwork . will he clarify what will happen to they ? I welcome the amendment to the UK Internal Market Act 2020 provide for in regulation 2 . propose new section 45a would reaffirm Northern Ireland ' s unfettered access to the rest of the internal market and ensure that no new NI - GB check can be introduce . the regulation also make provision for the Secretary of State to issue guidance to Departments on how they should carry out their duty under section 46 of the 2020 Act — namely , ensure that they have special regard to , among other thing , Northern Ireland ' s status in the UK internal market when they formulate policy . will the Minister confirm that guidance will soon be forthcoming and share any further detail he can at this stage about what that will contain ? I note the change to the Definition of Qualifying Northern Ireland Goods ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2020 make by regulation 3 , which be intend to prevent Northern Ireland from be use as a back door for EU good move into GB and to protect Northern Ireland ' s agricultural sector . ensure that ni - register agrifood operator fully benefit from unfettered access be a very positive step and I welcome it . will the Minister tell the House whether the Government envisage any further change to the definition of qualify Northern Ireland good ? I also note the Government ' s confirmation in the Command Paper that " there will be no Border Control Post at Cairnryan . " that be greatly to be welcome , but can the Minister say anything far about how check and formality on non - qualify good that enter GB from Northern Ireland through Cairnryan will work in practice ? let I turn to some of the other commitment set out in the Command Paper . will the Minister confirm when he expect the new body announce to promote trade within the UK , InterTrade UK , to become operational , and how it will be oversee ? I welcome the Government ' s determination , which have be bring up by a number of member , to ensure the continue supply of veterinary medicine into Northern Ireland beyond the end of 2025 , when the current grace period expire . we all hope that an agreement can be reach with our european partner as soon as possible . I share the view express by other in the debate that we have the same problem with human medicine and , in the end , the EU recognise that something have to be do about that . I hope very much that the EU will show the same spirit in approach this question . the Command Paper , however , say : " we will if necessary deploy all available flexibility to safeguard and sustain the supply of veterinary medicine " . will the Minister tell the House what those flexibility be and how they will be apply if we get to that point ? in approve the regulation — which I hope we will do unanimously as we just do with the constitutional set — we will be take another step close , in this really important week , to the restoration of power sharing . the people of Northern Ireland , who have be without a Government for so long , may not , in all fairness , be study the regulation in the way that we be do today , but they very clearly understand why they be essential to get their government back . once we have do our bit today , it will be over to the politician of Northern Ireland , and I be sure that every single Member of the House wish they the very good in the task that lie ahead of they . the important statutory instrument that we be discuss today be the late in the process of implement the result of the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union . they may not have attract the same volume , attention or emotion as those endless meaningful vote in 2018 and 2019 , but they be no less important . this have be a long and difficult process that have divide the nation , but the end goal of restore our status as an independent , self - govern democracy have be a prize worth fight for . for century , member of this Parliament strive to ensure that we would be govern only by the law make by our own elect representative , and that be what Brexit seek to deliver , but we all know that the job be not yet finish when it come to Northern Ireland , so I pay tribute to the Secretary of State , the Minister and the DUP for their work and determination to tackle the problem with the Windsor framework and secure Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK internal market . I very much welcome the advance be make towards the restoration of power sharing and devolve government , and I accept that the statutory instrument be an important part of enable that to happen because of the significant change they contain . of course , I completely understand the DUP ' s concern regard the Northern Ireland protocol and the Windsor framework . we must do all we can to minimise trade friction between Britain and Northern Ireland . the agreement on the Windsor framework start that process — for example , by make the movement of medicine , food and item for retail sale much less problematic . I believe that further improvement will be deliver by the deal that we be look at today , which will far reduce check and inspection . my concern be that the central problem remain that Northern Ireland be subject to single market rule without have a vote on they . the instrument we be consider do not change that , although I welcome the important further clarity and safeguard offer on the Stormont brake . dialogue with the EU have to continue so that ultimately we can move to a situation in which only item destine for export to the south be subject to EU rule and regulation in Northern Ireland . with pragmatism and advance border technology , that should be possible . it be important that we continue to strive to bring that about , so that we can restore democratic control over make our law in every part of our United Kingdom and Brexit be fully deliver for Northern Ireland , as it be for Great Britain . we also need assurance from Ministers that nothing in regulation 3 of the Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations will prevent regulatory divergence between Britain and the EU . of course , any responsible Minister must consider the impact of his or her decision on the unity of the UK and its single market , but new screening obligation must not be allow to create a chilling effect , which would stop we chart our own course with regard to how we regulate our economy . take back control of make our own law be a key reason that people vote to leave the EU . we have yet to fully deliver that for Northern Ireland and , as I have say , we must go far on it in the future . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for the conversation we have have on this specific point . she be right to highlight her concern and to seek assurance from the Government , but she do accept that it be right to get assessment ; that it be right that government should always be go through the process of assess the impact of their decision on every part of this United Kingdom ; and that there be nothing wrong with transparency , with know any possible consequence , nor — if that potential consequence be negative — with all of we determinedly try to ensure that it do not arise . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention ; the dialogue that he and I have have over recent day have do a lot to reassure I that this package be about transparency , not a block on divergence . I hope the Minister will confirm that in his closing remark , because divergence be important . the regulatory reform make possible by exit be , I think , crucial for our future economic success . by make we more competitive , modernise regulation be a key mean to boost growth , raise living standard and reduce taxis . in conclusion , it take courage and determination from Northern Ireland ' s elect leader to secure peace after three horrific decade of terrorist violence . ask very different party to sit in a permanent mandatory coalition be never go to be easy , not least because some of the division between they date back decade , or even century . that devolve government have work for so much of the past quarter of a century be a testament to Northern Ireland ' s leader and their determination to make the ' 98 settlement work — to make Northern Ireland work . I pay particular tribute to the DUP in that regard : for so often it be they who have find way to fix problem and keep devolve government go , while always safeguard unionist principle . we in this House must recognise the significant problem cause by the Northern Ireland protocol and the Windsor framework — include , of course , what the court have describe as a " subjugation " of article 6 of the Act of Union of 1801 — but , as we have hear today , we be make real progress on tackle these issue by set out in the statutory instrument strong legal protection for access to the GB market . I also think that the historical perspective , as set out in annexe A of the Command Paper , be something that everyone should read . we be make progress on remedy these problem . it be a privilege for I , as Secretary of State for just under four year , to play a part in Northern Ireland ' s inspire story , and I truly hope that a way can now be find for its devolved institution to resume their work of take Northern Ireland forward to further success and an even bright future . rise — I be try to get an idea of how many member wish to speak . some who have indicate that they want to speak be now not stand — fine . that be very helpful . I call the SNP spokesperson . we on the SNP Benches start from the principle that the few impediment there be to trade between all part of the UK , and between the UK and the EU , the well . that be something that clearly take a step backwards with Brexit , so we very much welcome the fact that the Northern Ireland situation at least have be largely address by the regulation before we , which we will support . with that dual market access , Northern Ireland will clearly now enjoy a highly advantageous situation relative to other part of the UK , and although we very much support this SI , my hope be that in time the people of England , Wales and Scotland will wish to rediscover that advantageous situation for themselves , and ultimately render the content of this SI obsolete . finally , it would be remiss of I not to miss the opportunity to tweak the Minister ' s tail slightly , give that he say he be an enthusiast for democratic self - determination — so be I , and I look forward to a similar stout defence from the Minister of that right to democratic self - determination in other part of the Union in the future . it be a privilege to speak in the debate and to follow the many hon . and right hon . member who have speak with great wisdom , knowledge and personal experience on these matter . it be informative to apply to article 6 of the act of Union the four test for impact that be develop by Justice Colton — specifically , Northern Ireland ' s compliance with certain EU standard ; the bureaucracy and associate cost of comply with custom documentation and check ; the payment of tariff for good at risk ; and the unfettered access enjoy by Northern Ireland business to the EU single market . I question the representation of the Supreme Court judgment as set out in paragraph 14 of annex A to the Command Paper , but those be matter for the last debate , and there be not time to make my point . the Windsor framework remove many EU standard for GB - produce consumer good destine for Northern Ireland . that do not change under the SI before we . the second test — on bureaucracy and compliance cost associate with custom — should concern we , as the protocol see the diversion of £ 1 . 2 billion - worth of good in supply chain from GB to the Republic . indeed , logistic business testify to the Lords Windsor Framework Sub - Committee on the complexity of manage mixed load , with two large haulage firm state that groupage have be " forget " in the framework . expert analysis have also suggest that 75 % of output in non - exempt manufacturing sector , include electronic , engineering and chemical , come from firm with turnover above £ 2 million , which will see their GB supply chain stick in the red lane or divert abroad . the Command Paper publish yesterday contain a pledge — a UK internal market guarantee — that no more than 20 % of good will flow through the red lane . in practice , that create a monitoring panel to report on any failure to hit the target and make recommendation to which the Government must respond . that be admirable but do not represent a material change to exist custom requirement under the protocol . it be also worth note that , worryingly , that could be achieve simply by divert supply chain away from GB towards the EU , as affect GB business cut Northern Ireland out of their distribution chain . the regulation before we create important easement for Northern Ireland to GB trade , include a guarantee that future divergence will not impact the ability of Northern Ireland trader to freely access GB market . that be welcome , but the bulk of distribution have always pertain to GB - to - NI trade , not the reverse . as be also note in the Command Paper , although technology may ease compliance cost in the medium to long - term , those cost will still exist . ship from London to Belfast will continue to require significantly more bureaucracy than ship to York or Edinburgh . the third test , on tariff , be not cover and do not apply . finally , let I turn to Northern Ireland ' s preferential access to the EU single market . I must emphasise that the clear trade - off that we have choose to give Northern Ireland unregulate access to EU supply chain come at the cost of complicate access to GB one , despite the fact that Northern Ireland import from GB be two and a half time those from the EU and six time those from Ireland . whatever easement we offer , that have create a custom , judicial and legislative border across the kingdom , and it be hurt our business . the fact that Northern Ireland continue to have preferential access to the EU single market be unarguable , but it should not be misunderstood . again , I find that final test informative . nothing I say today be intend to diminish the achievement of the deal when it come to material gain for Northern Ireland . although I welcome the element within the new deal , which undoubtedly offer increase safeguard for the Union , it do not change the fact of EU law ' s application to Northern Ireland , additional bureaucracy for GB business attempt to access Northern Ireland , the existence of tariff , or Northern Ireland ' s de facto placement within the EU single market . once again , the quality and effectiveness of this deal will emerge over the month and year ahead , I be sure , and through the scrutiny that must come from this place . I will continue to offer my support in those month and year ahead . will the hon . member give way ? order . I believe the hon . Gentleman have finish his speech . I call Gavin Robinson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would be very happy to let my colleague in if she wish to respond to the hon . member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) . I think it need to be reiterate that if the people of England , Wales or Scotland wake up tomorrow morning and find that they would have to stand for election to try to stop law in 300 area be impose on they by a foreign Parliament , it would be outrageous and see as outrageous by this House . that point should not be lose on this gathering . I be glad that I allow my hon . friend to make that intervention even though the hon . member for Aberconwy have bring his contribution to a conclusion , because that be an important point . in the context of the UK Parliament , I be proud to stand in support of the SI before we , and to recognise the effort over the past number of year to deal with what be impose on we and the people of Northern Ireland by colleague in this Chamber and by a Government , arise from the arrangement reach in the withdrawal agreement and the Northern Ireland protocol . a series of measure be take design to encourage those who do not overly concern themselves with the position in which they have leave Northern Ireland , to redress the harm do . today be , in many way , a culmination of part of that process , but not an end to it . for the past number of year , my colleague and I have stand firm in this regard . we have take a principled position about the imposition of the Northern Ireland protocol and the harm it have cause our country and our place within our country , and have work determinedly for solution . on the damage do , and the diversion of trade between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland , many supplier have find that it be easy to get product from the Republic of Ireland because UK supplier be feed up with the bureaucracy they be encounter . a job of work need to be do with UK supplier to ensure they can bring back that trade . my hon . friend be absolutely right . Intertrade UK , a body about which member will read in the Command Paper , will have an important job of work to do in that regard . back in October 2022 , whenever we be under significant pressure to move and to accept our lot , my parliamentary predecessor , former First Minister of Northern Ireland and my mentor , Peter Robinson , issue a powerful post remind colleague and those of we who be under pressure that we have not come this far only to come this far . he be encourage we to stand , and we stand our ground not only then but throughout all the hype and all the pressure associate with the publication of the Windsor framework . the three fundamental that be expand on in our seven test be to repair the constitutional harm impose upon our country , to remove the democratic deficit at the heart of the arrangement for parliamentarian in our Northern Ireland Assembly , and to reduce the friction on trade , and remove it in respect of GB - to - ni good that be stay in the UK internal market . that have be our quest . on the constitutional harm , I be delighted that , as a consequence of our party ' s resolution , determination and stand over the past number of year , the leader of my party , my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) and this Parliament be able to speak to and agree the constitutional si that just pass the House . that be an important milestone . on the democratic deficit , let we not forget that what have be achieve in repair and remove the democratic deficit , and give Stormont a say in the rule that apply to Northern Ireland , do not just come by way of change in this place . the agreement of that resolution require a structural amendment to the Northern Ireland protocol , and article 13 . 3 and 13 . 4 of that protocol be amend . the Windsor framework do that , and , in the constitutional si that we just pass , we have strengthen far still the legislative provision around the operation of that process . I say that to indicate that what we be tell could not happen — change to these text , these tablet of stone — have happen . these regulation be an important document not in and of themselves but as part of a much wide package that have be secure , and that be publish in yesterday ' s Command Paper . that wide package have import in and of itself , and today ' s proceeding have an importance attach to the prospect of a return to devolution . our party be a devolutionist party . we believe in locally elect representative in Northern Ireland have the ability to shape our future within the United Kingdom . the cost and consequence of not recognise the opportunity before we , of not see the gain that have be achieve , would be too damaging for Unionism and too damaging for the future of our Province within this country . neither this SI nor the SI we have just pass be the sum total of what we have agree . I listen to the hon . member for Aberconwy say that there be no issue for good move from Northern Ireland to Great Britain . he believe that because it have be say so many time , but it be not so . from 2017 , successive conservative government have always dismiss the fact that trader trade in both direction , and they have always answer through one prism , never recognise that we should be equally free to buy and sell in the marketplace . say that trade have not be a concern be to belie the fact that , as Unionists within this country , we have a situation in which UK trade deal do not automatically apply to we in Northern Ireland . consumer in Northern Ireland could not benefit from those trade deal . although it be not in this SI , it be worth mention that on Tuesday evening , as a consequence of our discussion and negotiation with the Government , and as publish in the Command Paper , we see the publication of 60 page of legislative text that will see product from the rest of the world that be freely available in the rest of the United Kingdom now be available in Northern Ireland . those product will be take from the red lane into the UK internal market system . some 13 , 000 tonne of product will be available that be not available until we secure the concession that recognise our rightful place within this United Kingdom and our access to UK free trade deal . that important step mean that 14 million item will move from the red lane into the UK internal market system , and it will mean that free trade deal benefit the people of Northern Ireland in a way that they previously could not , in a way that they do not and in a way that be never previously consider . that progress have be secure by this agreement . the House will also recognise that , as outline not in this SI but in the deal itself , primary legislation will be introduce to remove what I can describe only as the legislative litter retain from the 2017 joint report on the fictional all - Ireland economy , which do not exist . the reason why good be label " not for sale in the EU " when move from GB to NI be because we have a separate and distinct arrangement . we be not the same as the rest of the island of Ireland . we be part of the United Kingdom , and this deal reinforce that . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about the phrase " all - Ireland economy , " but do he not recognise that a number of company base in Northern Ireland essentially operate on an all - Ireland basis ? his party ' s leader , the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , have highlight the obvious example of Coca - Cola , which be base in Lisburn and serve the entire island . it be always good to hear from the hon . Gentleman , but he knowingly confuse my point . he know that Coca - Cola be situate in Northern Ireland and send its product throughout the island of Ireland be a point that recognise our access to the single market , with which I take no issue — I see it as a practical benefit . he also ignore the fact that , in Northern Ireland , Coca - Cola be able to manage different tax regime , different currency and many different aspect which , in and of themselves , clearly demonstrate that there be no all - Ireland economy . I be not concerned about there be one , but I be concerned that there be one remain reference in legislation that be totally irrelevant and have no force in effect but require Ministers to have due regard to something that do not exist , and be part of this agreement . the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill accept red and green lane but , under this new arrangement , there be no need for a lane to deal with good come from GB to NI and stay within the United Kingdom internal market . the check require by the Windsor framework — taper down to 5 % by 2025 but , in real term , 100 % on some fruit and veg , 30 % on meat , fish and poultry , and 15 % on dairy — be go , save for the ordinary check we have in relation to smuggling and criminality . those change can only be achieve by open the EU text and secure change in a way that we be tell could not happen , that we be tell be mythical or wishful thinking . Madam Deputy Speaker , you have be very gracious in let I speak around the SI up until this point . in the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 , the Government propose many thing that be to be of benefit to we , but they drop they . they have our support in protect our place within the UK internal market , but they drop the proposal . this deal bring they back again , but it also go far . other Members have comment on this , but propose new section 45a ( 2 ) of the 2020 Act say : " accordingly , this Act — ( a ) prohibit the application of export procedure to good remove from Northern Ireland to Great Britain " . whether or not member think it have practical import , I can say as a Unionist that it have principle import . there should be no exit procedure . the exit procedure under the Northern Ireland protocol have cause we so much harm , and they have go . that be important for all of we . subsection ( 3 ) say : " in particular , that permanent unfettered access be achieve in relation to qualify Northern Ireland good through ( among other thing ) — ( a ) the mutual recognition " . mutual recognition have be discuss many time in this House , and it be an aspiration we all share . we be tell it be mythical . we be tell it be a unicorn project . we be tell that it could never be achieve because the EU would never agree , yet in this SI , we have mutual recognition — something that could do away with the check , the impediment and the imposition that be put upon we by this Parliament and resolve the barrier to trade within our own country . something that have consequence for the principled and political integrity of our country be now go , because we have achieve mutual recognition . why be that important ? it be important in the context of the debate we have be have across the House . I be proud that we have put in measure about internal market impact assessment that probably seem a little boring , methodical and bureaucratic , but even if we go through the process of get civil servant and policy - maker to understand that any choice they make could have an impact on the UK internal market and Northern Ireland ' s place within it , to understand what those impact be and seek to address they , and even if the conclusion be that parliamentary sovereignty reign and the principal policymaker in this place decide that they will diverge in policy term from where we be in Northern Ireland , we have a good guarantee . nobody on the DUP Benches be go to upset parliamentary sovereignty , but we will protect our place within this United Kingdom . the good guarantee — the mutual recognition that say that , irrespective of the standard that apply in either part of this country , our good from Northern Ireland will always be welcome in the rest of the United Kingdom — be a gain . it be a gain even when other do not see it as a problem , because it future - proof our place within this United Kingdom . it be something that be absent from the Windsor framework . it have be a long quest for all of those who have walk hard yard to resolve some of the issue that have arise from our choice to leave the European Union , but our determination on those issue have never waver , and a resolution have be achieve . new section 46a of the United Kingdom Internal Market Act deal with indirect access . in that section , our Government be now say very clearly that there can be no administrative check , control and process , not only for direct movement between one part of our country and another but for indirect movement — direct movement , but for the fact that the good have merely pass through the Republic of Ireland . that crystallise yet again the fact that we be not in an all - Ireland economy : we be different from our near neighbour . legislatively , Northern Ireland haulier and Northern Ireland business that be send good from Northern Ireland to Great Britain will be able to do so in an unfettered way , even if they travel through a foreign country . those control will not apply to they . those achievement be worth focus on , because we have be try to resolve the unresolvable — to get focus on place where attention have move elsewhere . it have take much long than we would have like . I be sure that many member on other Benches would have prefer the process to end a lot soon as well , if only we have agree to less , but we be not prepared to do so . the Windsor framework mark progress , but we say that there be unresolved issue : not only the potential for future divergence in GB that would put we in a difficult position , or gain that be offer in the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill or , indeed , the United Kingdom Internal Market Act that be ultimately drop — which we have now bring back and secure , and this Parliament be agree to — but resolve the unresolvable in a way that will have practical application for Northern Ireland , and for our place within this United Kingdom , now and for a long time to come . I have three more member wish to speak . I want to bring the Minister in at 3 . 18 pm , so perhaps people could bear that in mind . again , I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Chris Heaton - Harris ) , the Prime Minister , all of the Northern Ireland party and , most importantly , the DUP for this negotiation , and I thank the Opposition for their support . I note that this instrument , like the previous one , be liable not to go to a vote , and that there will again be total unanimity across this House . it be really important that we continue to make that point . I know that the DUP be very concerned that in 2020 measure be drop from the United Kingdom Internal Market Bill , and I be delighted to see those protection return . this instrument , like the previous one , emphasise how the DUP have negotiate all the detailed element that the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have just outline , compare with a blank sheet from those who be currently make argument against the DUP ' s acceptance of this deal . I thank the right hon . member for his work in try to move thing forward . on the very point he have just make , do he agree with I that it be due to the tenacity of my colleague and I in not give up when , in 2020 , those clause be drop ? we persevere and we keep press — when other give up , this party keep at it — and now we see the fruit of our labour with the insertion into the United Kingdom Internal Market Act of key clause that protect our unfettered access to the United Kingdom and its internal market . I wholeheartedly agree with the leader of the DUP . this negotiation , as I have observe , have involve hour and hour from the negotiate team , from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and from the Prime Minister ' s team . it have be dog and ongoing , and it have be hour of work . I observe some of the debate in Northern Ireland and some of the criticism , but I look at the list of improvement that have be win , and I again pay tribute to those improvement . this statutory instrument speak to a broad point in Northern Ireland , which be the economy and the opportunity for economic improvement . before talk briefly about that , I would like to pay tribute to the business group in Northern Ireland that have show great patience since the Brexit vote on how to resolve many of the practical issue they be face with . in the Northern Ireland Chamber of Commerce and Industry , the CBI , the Institute of Directors , the Federation of Small Businesses and the Northern Ireland Business Brexit Working Group , many people have be work very hard to seek resolution , and I know that each and every one of those organisation will be pleased with what they have see this week . there be huge opportunity in Northern Ireland for the defence sector , the cyber sector , agriculture , pharma and more . whether it be meat exporter who will be welcome the tariff deal , the many business work with the US special envoy this week in Northern Ireland , or the various economic and inward investment seminar and activitie my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have be organise , all of these business will benefit , and they will create job and opportunity for family , young people and citizen in the future . I would like to move away slightly from the statutory instrument , and go back to the Command Paper to reference the paragraph on corporation tax . what have be negotiate by the Government and the DUP on that front be to begin a working group between the Treasury here in London and the Department of Finance in the Northern Ireland Executive to look at the competitiveness of Northern Ireland ' s corporation tax , and that give Northern Ireland an additional opportunity to maximise its already unique position in the United Kingdom . I draw the right hon . member ' s attention to a further element in the Command Paper that propose a special investment zone for Northern Ireland , which will deliver an extra £ 150 million of funding to drive growth in our economy . do he join I in welcome the interest of the Secretary of State for Scotland in work with we to ensure that the port of Cairnryan and Stranraer be include , so that the link with Larne and Belfast be strengthen , and the Union connectivity that bind our country together be value , invest in and expand for the future ? I absolutely agree with those comment . we see that in the Command Paper with Intertrade UK , which I hope will have excellent subject matter expert to build trade opportunity far , as well as with the East - West Council and various other group . the Command Paper be much more than a constitutional or legislative document . it be the basis for build on the already extremely exciting opportunity that Northern Ireland have to conquer in multiple sector of the economy . I presume we will now be move on to look at talent and skill , and at how people from poor nationalist area or poor unionist area can maximise these economic opportunity . this document be the basis for move forward for Northern Ireland under a new devolve Executive , and for Northern Ireland knock the light out in various sector of the economy in year to come . rise — rise — there be two speaker leave , and I suggest they speak for nine minute each . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I will adhere , as I always do , to your timescale , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I know my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) have a lot to say as well . the combined year of negotiation have to be recognise . there have be movement , and even the harsh critic must be fair and admit to the huge step that have be take . it be right and proper that I thank those in the DUP , notably my leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , and deputy leader , my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , sit on the right and leave of I here in this Chamber . I also thank the other who have contribute , such as the Secretary of State and other with influence : the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) have be a great advocate for Unionism in Northern Ireland , and we thank he for that . so I be grateful to all who have do the bulk of the work by tirelessly advocate for change . they have secure a deal , and I be thankful for that . however , I must be clear : this be not the fulfilment of a wish list . it do not go as far as I would wish and I would like to see more , but how can I change that ? I change that from in this House ; I change it in this Westminster House of Commons . that be how we do it — as a democrat , that be how I believe we must do it . that be a point worth make . I be an active constituency MP , as we all be — I be not say that no other member be — and I have travel the length and breadth of my constituency discuss this matter . I meet with Orange brother and sister in January this year , and do the same last year . I meet with teacher , NHS worker , individual and community group . I take time on the doorstep to explain to my people why we have to take the necessary step of bring down Stormont , to try to provide the justification for stay out of Stormont at time when money be be withhold and every threat other than physical be be lodge at we . I take the time to attempt to tell people that it be not a matter of we be thran , to use an Ulster Scotsism , but it be a matter of we take seriously the economic and constitutional position of Northern Ireland within the Union . that be what my colleague have do for two year , and I have stand firm on this and on the seven test that the DUP outline . now today we see the legislation that I and other call for — constitutional legislation to secure our place within the internal market — and I retain some level of concern and press the Government for more assurance . minister would expect I to do that . it be highlight yesterday that the european law may be overrule by Government , but the wording suggest that they may also be accept , allow Northern Ireland to diverge . all the people I represent seek an assurance from our Government that this deal and the legislation before this House will do exactly what it say on the tin and secure our place in the internal market — in fact restore and then secure our place . I say gently to my colleague on the Treasury Bench and across the Chamber that there be a lack of trust , which boil down to the treatment of Unionists by rule government in this House for decade . the Secretary of State kindly take that on board when I raise it in an intervention . I look forward to that trust be build upon in a way that enable we to secure the trust of the people I be privileged to represent in this House . the Irish Government have no issue with support call for reunification , yet our Government Ministers have be afraid to appear unbiased . government need to be unbiased . the opinion of this House on our sovereignty should be clear . my party leader seek not simply to secure legislation and change for this to take place now , but to future - proof it . in other word , we be not just deal with it for today : we be deal with it for the future of my child and grandchild and those I probably will not be here for . many of the people I represent have state their lack of trust in a Government who tell we they have give we the good they could and then do not deliver . my hon . friend make a powerful point about trust . the way the people of Northern Ireland have be treat over the past number of year by this Government be terrible . we need only look at the abortion law that be force on the people of Northern Ireland and the relationship and sexuality education change bring into Northern Ireland . so trust be at an all - time low , and there be people in my constituency who look at this not through rose - tint glass but with the view that we need to go much far and do more . my hon . friend clearly illustrate the distrust . to be fair , the Minister of State and Secretary of State have recognise that and know the job they have to do . it be clear why some of my electorate question not the dealing of the DUP , but rather those of the Government , wonder whether this deal be deliverable and will stand the test of time . under the methodology before we , the Government must take a step , and only when they take that step can we then make an assessment of whether the deal be deliverable and will stand the test of time . that be what the issue boil down to , and it be why I express concern . there be a huge lack of trust , and that have spill over to many be unable to accept the spirit of the deal , and in all honesty — I say this respectfully — I fully understand the distrust . just to give the House one quick example , on Tuesday morning I have the opportunity to look over the deal . a gentleman have be in touch not just with I , but with my hon . friend on these Benches . he say , " Jim , I ' m go to test this out to see if the paperwork be less . " that be Tuesday morning . he come back to I Tuesday night , and he send I a text today , which I think other may have have , to say that for the 251 product that have each need 300 page of paperwork , the paperwork be away . he also tell I that the pet food that he could not get , he will be able to get in three week ' time . that have to be progress . why do that happen ? it happen because of some of the thing that have be do here . I take the opportunity to speak to business and to the farmer . farmer and their union have tell I that as far as they be concern , they see progress on machinery , tractor and vehicle . in an intervention on the Minister early , I mention the importance of have a veterinary committee . I make a plug for my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) to be a member of that , because his influence in that area will be critical . he have do the spadework , and he seem to I to be the right man to be in there to fight for we . my electorate want their representative back to Stormont , but not at any price . rather than the spirit of Chamberlain ' s peace at any price , which embolden our enemy , they hold to the mantra of Churchill that we will fight they on the beach , and how true that be . we have seek to secure the internal market , but read the SI make it clear that a lot of interpretation be in the hand of the sit Government . my constituent be desperate to get the billion that have be wilfully withhold . I say that with great respect to the Secretary of State last week . those await treatment on the NHS list deserve funding to reduce their time in pain . the bus driver stand a few yard down from my constituency office in the freezing cold deserve a pay raise . the child with special need deserve the security of know that their day centre will remain open and not close due to insufficient funding . all those people deserve those thing , whether or not this deal be strike , but we also deserve the truth of who we be in the light of the legislation . be we a casual member — [ interruption . ] I will finish soon , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be rush quickly to meet your timing . be we a casual member of the UK , with the EU to have a continue say on law and the recognition of status , or do we have full UK membership , with the benefit and security of every other part of the UK ? the deal have be hard fight for and seek to address that , but the real power to assure we lie in this House , with the Ministers and the Government . at home , people be urge we to keep our word , and I agree we must , but we can do so only if the Government in this place also keep their word . Northern Ireland deserve our place in the UK , and my party leadership have fight hard for it . the question be simple , and so be the answer I seek : be we british in law , in economic and in parity , or be we not ? speak the word today and ensure that my Government and Ministers here keep it tomorrow . I will bring in the Minister no later than 3 . 18 pm . I will not go over the wide range of what be in the Command Paper or the SI , but will focus on some particular point in the SI . it be well know that I do not support this deal or agreement , and I have give reason why not . it be important that we have the opportunity to examine the detail of it , and the way that this legislation have be hurry through today have not allow that examination . that be one reason why I will focus just on one particular aspect of it . when my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) be speak , he talk about the need to get rid of the debris or litter that be still around . the first point I want to make — perhaps the Minister can answer this in sum up — be that a lot of legislative litter be still around as a result of the arrangement put in place for the red lane and the green lane . we have statutory instrument on which I have speak in Committee on a number of occasion , and EU regulation , include regulation 2023 / 1231 , which give the EU the right to make the final decision to suspend good go through the green lane — and , I suspect , the internal market lane — and make the red lane the default position . I wonder when we will see the removal of all the infrastructure around the previous arrangement in the protocol and the Windsor framework . that would indicate that the UK Government be totally in command of good flow into Northern Ireland , rather than , as the EU legislation and indeed the withdrawal agreement state at present , the EU have the final say . secondly , my hon . Friend indicate that the movement of good between Northern Ireland and GB be an issue of concern . it be , and indeed it be likely to be an issue of concern in the future , especially since the Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 make it clear that legislation could be introduce in the House that would impact on trade between Northern Ireland and GB — for example , if the Government decide to change some retain EU law . the only assurance give be that a Minister would have to make an assessment of the impact and report it to the House . but at the end of the day — this be clear in propose new section 13c of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 — he could make a decision to proceed nevertheless , even though that would likely have an impact on trade . EU law could be another reason for divergence . we could find decision make or practice allow in the EU that put the GB market at risk . that be why we will be introduce the border operating model . the danger be that Northern Ireland good could get catch in that . I imagine hear people , include the Minister , say , " but the legislation prevent that . " it do — on the face of it , we can not have any border check for what be call Northern Ireland qualify good go into GB . indeed , local authority will be inform that trade can not be restrict , that no barrier can be put up to that trade and that Northern Ireland qualify good should have free access . of course , all the export declaration previously require be to be drop . however , perhaps the Minister can tell we what be mean in propose new section 45b of the UK Internal Market Act 2020 , which indicate that if good fall into one of five category , they will require export declaration . leave that aside , let we look at the situation — actually , it be provide for in this legislation — whereby it be quite clear that the freedom give for Northern Ireland qualify good to sail through into GB be be abuse by exporter from the Republic , who bring good through Northern Ireland and declare they as qualify good . by the way , it appear that no evidence have to be give ; it will simply be take on trust when good be declare to be qualify good . I see the Minister be nod . indicate dissent . perhaps the Minister can tell we what proof company will have to give and how onerous that proof will be . what will happen where it become clear that there be abuse in good move through Northern Ireland into GB ? it appear — again , if I be misread this , perhaps the Minister can explain it to I — that propose new section 45C indicate that guidance will be give to local authority , probably through body and so on , as to what need to be do to keep the free flow of good between Northern Ireland and GB , but propose new section 46A state : " the Secretary of State may revise or revoke ( in whole or in part ) any guidance issue under this section . " in what circumstance would that guidance be give ? if it be give , what would the impact be on the free flow of good from Northern Ireland to GB , which be more than 60 % of our market ? it be about those detail . when we have this kind of seal of an agreement , with all the wide - range and broad - brush aspect , we sometimes find that when we get down to the detail it fall apart , as happen in the Windsor framework — let we not forget that it fall apart within about two day of the Prime Minister give the assurance . it be important that we understand all the various scenario that be be paint in such a detailed SI as this . first , will the Minister give we an assurance about what be happen to the green lane infrastructure — will the si and the EU regulation be remove , or will they stay in place , as part of the Windsor framework , the protocol and the withdrawal agreement ? secondly , what be the five category of good that will require export declaration ? People need to know . thirdly , when it come to the good flow into GB , under what circumstance will the border operating model be apply to they ? the final point I want to make be this — will the right hon . member give way ? I only have one minute leave . we be tell in paragraph 100 of the Command Paper that for good go through the green lane , some declaration of " standard commercial information " will be require . perhaps the Minister could tell we what standard commercial information company will be continue to be require to supply , even under the agreement . time be short , but I will do my level well to answer as many question as I can . it have be a very interesting debate . the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) ask I which check will be eliminate . the change will apply both for identity or visual check and for physical check . we will take power shortly to make direction to the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs to ensure that be the case . on the change to the definition of qualify Northern Ireland good , we will require they to have a genuine connection to Northern Ireland , and not to be merely cross through . the SI require qualify Northern Ireland good to be dispatch from NI - register food - business operator . it concentrate competitive advantage on Northern Ireland firm . we will continue to engage closely with Northern Ireland business on future change and will always be responsive if arrangement need to be improve — a theme that I can safely say run throughout everything the Government will do . the right hon . Gentleman ask when we will introduce guidance on section 46 of the UK Internal Market Act . we will work rapidly to deliver on every aspect of the deal announce yesterday . Guidance on section 46 will be prepare as quickly as possible . I certainly hear he on that point , and he will continue to press we . the guidance will be help to avoid unnecessary gold plating . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about Cairnryan . EU good arrive there will be check in line with the border target operating model , but I can confirm there will be no border control post at Cairnryan . we be work through the option and will work closely with the devolved government , include the newly restore Executive , to achieve our share objective . the right hon . Gentleman ask about flexibility for veterinary medicine . we be commit to explore flexibility that can be deploy , where they be consistent with international law , to guarantee the supply of veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland . we will establish a veterinary medicine working group to identify possibility in this policy area , but I be not in a position to set out those flexibility now . however , as we have all put so much effort into reset the relationship with the European Union , I hope and expect that we will be able to succeed in a negotiation . my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , the former Secretary of State , make a powerful case that Brexit must be fully deliver , with which I agree . I reassure she that nothing in this deal will prevent we from diverge . for the record , there be no commitment of any kind as part of this deal to align Great Britain with EU law , to prevent Great Britain from diverge from any retain EU law or to increase alignment in Northern Ireland beyond the strictly limited scope that Parliament have approve , which be itself subject to democratic consent and safeguard . for the avoidance of doubt , there be no legal mechanism to prevent divergence or force alignment across the whole of the UK . minister retain full freedom to diverge from retain EU law . both side of the argument have express concern in this debate . I want to draw the House ' s attention to paragraph 150 of the Command Paper : " Internal Market Assessments will be publicly available so this change will enable Parliament and the NI Assembly to more readily have the information they need for their scrutiny function . these step will fundamentally rewire structure within the Government to ensure full consideration of the potential Northern Ireland impact of any measure , ensure that the internal market be integral to policy development . " of course , we will continue to work with all party on outstanding issue . will the Minister give way ? I be extremely short of time but , out of respect , I will give way . will the Minister admit to the bottom line , as contain in propose new section 13c ( 2 ) ( b ) of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , set out in the draft Windsor Framework ( Constitutional Status of Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , which require " a statement to the effect that the Minister be unable to make such a statement " — that is , that the Bill in question will not affect trade between Northern Ireland and GB — " but his Majesty ' s Government nevertheless wish the House to proceed with the Bill " ? the bottom line be : yes , divergence can happen and trade can be disrupt . I readily concede that there can be change to retain EU law and that divergence can happen , but we have set out the safeguard at some length . I also encourage the right hon . gentleman — as my right hon . friend the Member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) , who make an excellent speech , say , and as indeed the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) say — to look at the section of the Command Paper in relation to the act of Union . I myself learn a great deal about it . will the Minister give way ? I need to finish in one minute , but I will give way . very briefly , I draw the Minister ' s attention to paragraph 146 of the Command Paper , which make it very clear that where primary legislation carry implication for the internal market , the Government will set out the measure they propose to take to protect Northern Ireland ' s place in the internal market . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that intervention . yes , that be the position . in closing , there be sensitivity on all side , as we have hear over the course of the debate , but real life in the age of intervention be complex , and we will press on as well we can . with that , I believe this Government have keep to the timetable as we agree . I very much hope we will be able to look forward now to a restore executive — one we will be very pleased to support in serve the good interest of all the people of Northern Ireland . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Windsor Framework ( UK Internal Market and Unfettered Access ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . business of the House Ordered , at this day ' s sit , notwithstanding the provision of paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of Standing Order no . 22d relate to the scheduling of select committee statement , a select committee statement on the Third Report of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee may be make after the conclusion of proceeding on this motion . — ( Robert Largan . ) as member may know , the Backbench Business debate on miner and mining community have be postpone to a later date . we will now move on to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . Financial Distress in Local Authorities Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee Select Committee statement ( Order , this day ) Mr Clive Betts , the Select Committee Chair , will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention can be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question about it . these should be brief question , not speech . I should also emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair and not to the relevant Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . it be a great pleasure to make this statement on behalf of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee about its report " financial distress in local authority " . let I first thank the Leader of the House for table the business motion that have allow the statement to be make . our Committee Clerk be excited about the fact that we have apparently set a procedural precedent today ; I be certainly not aware of that , but I be now . let I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for originally provide the time for the statement . our inquiry look into the extent of the funding gap in local authority ’ finance , and some of the main spending challenge that they face : social care , special educational need and homelessness . the report bring attention to key issue ahead of the upcoming local government financial settlement . it make recommendation not only for urgent action to resolve the immediate crisis , but large reform for the Government to consider after the next election . everyone recognise that the financial crisis in local authority across England be out of control . in recent month an alarming number of they have issue section 114 notice — admission that their spending be exceed their income — thus effectively declare bankruptcy . in the last six year , eight authority have issue such notice ; in the previous 18 year , none do . it be no long the case that a small number of individual council with particular issue be in financial distress . we be now see widespread financial distress across large part of local government , and the situation be only get bad . the Committee have hear evidence from the Local Government Association that one fifth of council may be in financial distress within the next year . at the heart of this crisis be a multi - billion - pound funding gap . the income available to local authority from council tax , retain business rate and government grant have not keep pace with the increase demand for their service and the effect of inflation . as a result , the Local Government Association estimate that authority face a funding gap of £ 4 billion over the next two year to maintain service at their current level . witness have tell we that the current funding system be " broken " and " not fit for purpose " . successive government since 2010 have reduce the level of central Government grant award to local authority by about 50 % . this have be partly offset by a 20 % increase in council tax , which have therefore lead to an overall reduction in local authority core spending power of 26 % in real term between 2010 and 2021 . in the short term , local authority need immediate additional funding . our report recommend that the Government must include additional funding in the local government finance settlement for 2024 - 25 to fill the gap . last week the Government announce £ 600 million of extra funding , and I give credit to the Minister , who have be assiduous in listen to the view of member on this subject . however , although those measure be welcome , they be not sufficient . our report recognise that the Government have recently begin consultation on other method of increase the fund available to local authority . we have cautiously welcome the fact that they be consider give authority additional capital flexibility to fund day - to - day cost , but we have recommend that those additional flexibility should be consider carefully and limit to extend flexibility over invest - to - save activity . we do not want to store up problem for future year . our report also recommend other way in which the Government can improve fund for local authority in the medium term . we have repeat the recommendation , which our Committee first make in 2021 , that the Government must urgently reform council tax . this would involve undertake a revaluation of property and introduce additional council tax band . finally , we have once again call for the Government to implement the business rate reset and fair funding review , to which they commit themselves in 2016 but which they have yet to deliver , and to reintroduce multi - year settlement . our inquiry ask witness what have cause the sharp rise in council expenditure . it identify three particular area where cost have rise significantly : adult ' and child ' s social care , special educational need , and homelessness . on adult ' social care , the increasingly complex need of a change population continue to drive up cost , and long - term workforce shortage and inflationary pressure have make the position bad . as the Committee recommend back in 2022 , the Government need to recognise that local authority will need several billion pound of additional funding each year to continue to deliver and improve adult social care , and should plan a sustainable mechanism to deliver this funding that do not simply rely on increase council tax . on child ' s social care , our inquiry find that council be face rise demand for residential care placement and a poorly function market for provide they . that have drive significant cost increase . our report recommend an urgent comprehensive reform of the child ' s social care system . as part of that , the Government should help local authority consider great collaboration so that between they they can deliver more child ' s care service directly , instead of through private supplier . our inquiry also find that local authority face significant financial pressure in provide service for child and young people with special educational need and disability — SEND . the number of education , health and care plan have " skyrocket " since they be introduce in 2014 , which have significantly increase demand for more expensive form of SEND provision and home - to - school transport . funding be provide to local authority through the dedicated school grant , but it be not enough to meet the demand and do not cover home - to - school transport . the Government have already be force to take temporary measure to prevent SEND cost from force a large number of council into bankruptcy . in 2020 , the Government introduce a " statutory override " , allow local authority to exclude any deficit on their DSG spending from their main revenue budget . local government face a potential cliff edge of section 114 notice whenever the statutory override come to an end . the question be : will the Treasury write off that extra borrowing when the time come ? our report recommend , therefore , that in the short term the Government should provide additional funding for home - to - school transport . in the long term , there need to be a fundamental reform of the ehcp , base on a cross - Government review . finally , our report make it clear that rise homelessness have increase cost for council . a big cause of the increase have be the Government ' s decision to freeze local housing allowance rate in April 2020 , so our report welcome the Government ' s recent announcement that they will increase local housing allowance rate from April 2024 . however , it also raise concern about the Government ' s decision to then re - freeze the rate in 2026 . instead , we recommend that local housing allowance should be retain at at least the 30th percentile of local market rent . in the long term , the good solution , as the Committee have recommend repeatedly , be to build more social housing , which will always be cheap than pay for temporary accommodation . these problem require a long - term solution . that be why the Committee have make recommendation in this report for whichever Government be elect after the next election . the next government , regardless of their political persuasion , must embark on a fundamental review of the system of local authority funding and local taxation , both council tax and business rate . in do so , they must be clear about what local authority be for and how they can well co - ordinate with delivery of the Government ' s wide objective . we have recommend that the next Government should consider many option , which may include land value taxis and other , and wide fiscal devolution . they must also explore all option for reform the funding and delivery of social care service , to address the underlying cause of the acute funding and delivery pressure currently face by local authority . it be my hope that the need we have identify for additional funding will be properly reflect in the local government financial settlement we will debate next week , and that our other recommendation will be carefully consider by this Government and whoever form the government after the next election . I commend this report to the House . thank you very much for your statement , Mr Betts . I call Bob Blackman . I intend to call the Front Benchers at the end , if everybody be happy with that . I thank the Chairman of the Select Committee for what he say . clearly , one problem be that adult social service , child ' s social service and homelessness service be all demand lead , so it be very difficult for a local authority to predict the number of people involve and how much money will be require . do he agree that what the Government and the Department need to look at now be how we can enable local authority to have a pool of money nationally that could be use by a particular local authority when these demand - lead service have dramatically increase the burden on it ? I thank the hon . Gentleman — I call he my Select Committee Friend — because he have be part of all these debate and always the Committee report be unanimous . he be absolutely right : we have to find a way of fund social care in the specific part and for the general social care issue . council tax simply can not meet that burden ; we can not keep put council tax up to cover it . that lead on to the additional challenge that most people do not receive social care and what they be see every year be their council tax go up but the service they do get — the library , park , bus and road sweeping — be reduce . they be pay more and get less , and that be not sustainable in the long term . I commend my hon . friend on his brilliant work . on local government funding , he will know that Birmingham City Council be under special measure have issue a section 114 notice , and other service have be hugely hit by the lack of funding . one reason council have be force into this position be that there have be a lack of funding to the reserve that keep they out of bankruptcy , so the lack of proper funding for local authority be a real issue . I recognise the particular problem in Birmingham . some council that have issue section 114 notice have specific problem ; we know about the equal pay issue in Birmingham , for example . some council — I be refer generally — have perhaps bring those problem on themselves . however , as we say in the report , the challenge be no long just individual council with particular problem , but the generality of local government be under pressure , as set out by all our witness from the sector . in that situation , any challenging problem that come to a council on top of a general problem can tip it over the edge . I thank my hon . friend for his report . Barnsley Council ' s budget have see some of the big cut in the country , which make it even more impressive that it have be give two award for be council of the year . to date , my constituency of Barnsley East have receive no levelling - up funding , although such funding be a drop in the ocean compare with the figure my hon . friend be discuss . we be await the decision on our final bid , which be make to the cultural fund . do the Chair of the Select Committee know when that might be announce ? I note the Minister be in his place and I hope he will look on the Elsecar Heritage Centre bid favourably . if it be in my gift , of course I would give Barnsley the money it be ask for today , but unfortunately it be not . in another report , the Committee be fairly critical of the individual pot for level up , which be not join up together . it be unsatisfactory that some council can get bit of money from all these pot , while other get nothing at all . to address those problem , we have suggest a move towards single pot for local authority , reflect their need and give great discretion and freedom to decide on spending at a local level . we be quite a long way off that at this stage . in principle , the Government recognise that be the way to travel , but they have not get a road map about how we be go to get there . I thank my hon . friend for all his work on this important report . it be a privilege to serve on the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee under his chairship . he do not need I to tell he that , like many local authority , Nottingham City Council be in a perilous financial position . our council ' s spending power have be cut by a huge 28 % compare with 2010 , despite high level of deprivation in our city . this be considerably high than the average , still devastating , reduction of 19 % among council . how important do he believe it be to make the local government funding system fairer ? I completely agree that it should be make fair . the only caveat I would add be that one authority ' s system of fair funding be another authority ' s unfair funding , which be always a challenge . everyone accept that the funding system must be bring up to date . the current funding system have datum in it that go back to the last century , which be not a reasonable way to allocate money in the current age , so yes , it need to be revise . on the funding cut and the council tax increase , the big funding cut have tend to be make to those council that use to receive the most grant , which tend to be the poor council . the council tax increase have disadvantage council with a low council tax base , which tend to be those council who receive the big cut . we have not go into that in detail in this report , but I know we have have evidence to that effect in the past . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for this important report , which make sobering reading for member across the House . do he agree that the reason his measure be so necessary in Leeds be that Government funding to Leeds City Council have be cut by the Conservative Government by £ 2 . 5 billion since 2010 ? that have leave Leeds City Council , an excellent labour - run council , with a shortfall of £ 65 million for the 2024 - 25 financial year . the £ 2 . 5 billion of cut to Government funding since 2010 equate to about £ 75 million per ward , leave the council struggle to deliver essential service for some of the most vulnerable people in our city . be that not why everyone here , regardless of their political party , need to support the measure set out in this report ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . we clearly set out that the problem be due to a cut in funding . that be the result of a reduction in the central Government grant , with council tax increase only partly , but not wholly , replace the fund . that issue need address if we want council to continue not only perform social care function , but do everything else that our community rely on . we need fundamental reform ; that be what we be call for in the long term . that be a challenge for any government — I look at both Front Benches here — because if we reform local finance , some people will have to pay more and some will have to pay less . I always say that those people who pay more never forget about it and continue to blame the Government for year to come . those who pay less will thank the government and then forget about it next year . there be always a challenge when it come to spread the tax take around differently . but we will have to do it differently , because these council service — not just social care , but the park , the bus , the library , the road , the environmental service , the planning , and the economic development , which have almost fall off the scale in some council — be really important . the reality be that 14 year of ideological austerity cut have leave many authority on the brink of bankruptcy . from 2015 to now , Bradford Council have have £ 100 million - worth of cut , which have leave our service decimate and our community devastate and deprive of much - need service . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his report . I particularly welcome the call for much - need and immediate funding for local authority . do he agree that the much - need funding must be give , and if it be not give , any blame for section 144 notice should lie directly and squarely at the door of this government ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the report say that not every section 144 notice can be blame on the Government . there will be circumstance in which council get themselves into difficulty , but what we have say be that there be general problem come down for council , which have be create by a shortage of funding . we do make reference to Bradford . Bradford ' s problem be the young age of its population — the number of child . child service be run by trustee appoint by the Secretary of State for Education . that body have demand from the council an amount equivalent to about 50 % of its council budget . we could get the ridiculous situation in which the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities send in commissioner to run service to try to find the money to pay the trustee who be appoint by the Secretary of State for Education . that do not seem a great way for local government to operate . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for what I think be a very important report . I also thank the Committee member who have spend a significant amount of time get under the skin of the issue . first , do he agree that , ahead of the schedule finance settlement next Wednesday , the Government need to finally take responsibility for the financial crisis in local government ? secondly , do he share my concern that the breakdown in local government audit be contribute to the removal of the early warning system ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . yes , it certainly be do so . I have just produce a report about local government audit . there be a real problem there . if account have not be audit for three year , as in most case , but probably long in other case , how on earth do we know what be happen in local council finance ? certainly , get local audit on an even keel by the end of this year be very important , but where account be qualified , as they will be , council should not be blame for that ; it be the problem of the local audit system , and we really must sort that out . on behalf of the Government , I thank the Chair of the Select Committee and all his colleague on it for the work that they do in general , and for the report in particular . I will obviously study it with great care , and respond in the usual way . he make a number of point . I think we can all agree that certainty and security for the local government sector be important , and I concur with his view that there be clear merit in multi - year settlement . I also agree that whoever be stand at the Dispatch Box in the role of local government Minister after the next general election — I pray to God that it will be I , and I hope that my prayer will be answer — reform will always be difficult and complex . I would be interested to know whether the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) see any merit in establish some cross - party working and blue - sky thinking on the issue , in order hopefully to land something that can deliver certainty and security for five , 10 , 15 or 20 year ahead , to give comfort to local government leader , section 151 officer and other . while I might not completely agree with the Minister ' s prayer , I agree that if we be to sort this out for the long term , particularly social care funding , we need a system that have general support . the Committee have call for that in the past . what we do on pension reform a few year ago , cross party , have stick , so there be merit in that suggestion . whether we can achieve it , I do not know , but we ought to try . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . this morning , my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs what owner of XL bully dog who have miss the registration deadline for genuine reason can do to ensure that they keep in line with guidance . a constituent who miss the deadline contact my office today . they be unable to get their dog neuter in time for genuine reason . the advice of the Secretary of State be to register as soon as possible ; however , the Government ' s website say that the service be now close . I seek your advice on how thing can be correct , and the website can be reopen , if that be the intention of the Secretary of State , so that dog owner who want to do the right thing and register their pet can do so . I thank the hon . member for her point of order and her forward notice of it . clearly , the Chair be not responsible for the accuracy of Ministers ' remark , but at the same time we want they to be accurate . I hope that those on the Treasury Bench have hear what she have have to say , and will ensure that the Secretary of State have it bring to his attention . at the same , give that she be a diligent Member of Parliament , I be sure that she will bring it directly to the notice of Ministers . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have hear what the hon . Lady say . it be a serious point . I will ensure that my official raise it with the office of the Secretary of State this afternoon to ensure that the situation be clarify . it be a sensitive issue , and her constituent and other will want to have clarity . I can not do it quick than that , can I ? you have set the bar now . it be a very high bar . I should quit now . thank you very much everybody . Backbench Business Iran : Freedom and Democracy I beg to move , that this House condemn unreservedly the action of the government of Iran and the violent conduct of the police in suppress protest in that country ; be deeply concerned over Tehran ' s grow use of terrorism , espionage , cyber attack and hostage - take diplomacy to restrict and eliminate the iranian democratic opposition , the National Council of Resistance of Iran ( NCRI ) , target in particular member of the organise opposition , PMOI ( MEK ) , in Ashraf 3 , Albania and NCRI gathering since 2018 ; note that the resistance be struggle for the establishment of a secular democratic republic ; call on european government , especially the government of Albania , to counter Tehran ' s illegal activity and uphold the right of member of the iranian opposition pmoi ( MEK ) at Ashraf - 3 in accordance with the 1951 Geneva Refugee Convention , the European Convention of Human Rights and international law ; be far concern by report of threat make to iranian dissident in the UK ; urge the Government to include Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps on the list of proscribe terrorist organisation ; and far call upon the Government to work with international counterpart to ensure that further sanction be place on Iran without delay and Iran be hold to account for its illegal activity at home and abroad . I thank the Speakers - collect and the Backbench Business Committee for the various arrangement that have to be make because of this afternoon ' s emergency business . I be truly horrify by the current situation in Iran , which be spark by the brutal murder of a young girl by the authority while she be in police custody . her crime — if we could call it a crime — be merely wear she hijab in a manner that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps determine to be too loose . I thank Mr Speaker in particular for allow I on a number of occasion to debate this issue in the House . however , I wish this debate have take place under different circumstance and that by now our Government have take decisive action to proscribe the irgc in its entirety . the urgency for this charge be now more relevant than ever . not only do the human right situation in Iran remain dire , but the uncertainty around the middle east , which be spread far afield at a rapid rate , be predominantly drive by the funding and support from this exceptionally threatening , connive and deceitful regime . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that the iranian people be lock in a vital struggle for justice , democracy and particularly equality , and that that struggle must go on until the oppression of woman in Iran and the use of sexual violence as a means of do so stop ? I thank my hon . friend — she must have look at the next section of my speech . the IRGC literally run and rule Iran , disregard democracy , freedom of expression and basic human right . the majority of people live in fear of speak out or engage in political matter in any form , with vigorous covert intelligence deploy to all part of the country , seek to sift out any potential opposition that might pose a threat to the regime . the authority censor all medium , jam satellite tv channel and filtering and block social medium platform such as x , Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and YouTube . far , the authority shut off or disrupt the internet and mobile phone network , particularly during protest , in order to suppress mobilisation and hide from civilian the sheer scale of the violation and privacy breach commit by the security force . in attempt to justify the infringement , the irgc be even try to push an internet user protection Bill through the Parliament in Iran . that legislation would far erode online freedom and people ' s access to the global internet . all opposition in Iran , whether it be independent political party , trade union , strike worker , protester , civil society organisation or simply truth - share journalist , be brutally suppress . there have never be a clear example of an undemocratic self - claim democracy . political opposition frequently receive the harsh treatment from the regime , and Iran be the country responsible for the second high number of execution each year , behind only China . whatever people ' s view on capital punishment , it can not be acceptable that that position persist . the House will no doubt recall the uprising that take place in September 2022 , spark nationwide protest that continue even today . I take this opportunity to honour the bravery of those people . it can not be easy for anyone to stand up and speak for basic right when there be a high likelihood that they or their family will be brutally target as a result . follow the riot , the United Nations special rapporteur on the situation of human right in Iran , Javaid Rehman , raise the alarm about the concern trend of arbitrary arrest , detention and execution target individual for merely exercise their freedom of expression . the hon . Member be make a brilliant speech . the dead hand of Iran be , unfortunately , everywhere ; its influence and impact be incredible , and I would suggest that it be even in this place . there be an all - party parliamentary group whose secretariat be bird — the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy . that be lead by a man , Sayed Al - Wadaei , who be out as a front leader for the promotion of iranian foreign policy . in 2012 , a man call Saeed Al - Shehabi be expose by the London Evening Standard as part of a terrorist group with link to Iran . that organisation and those people be part of a secretariat to an APPG here , and that need to be expose and member need to take action . I thank the hon . member for raise that point . that be now clearly on the record , and the House authority will need to look at that particular issue . recently release figure , which I be sure will have be generously taint by the regime , show that 870 execution take place in 2023 alone . that be a 30 % increase on the previous year , and many of those people be woman and child . ten of thousand of political prisoner , the overwhelming majority be peaceful , have be arrest in Iran — arrest for merely hold a sign or remove a headscarf . once arrest , their treatment be utterly unfathomable . Amnesty International have recently report that the atrocity such prisoner be subject to include be beat , rape , gang rape and psychologically abuse ; the list of horror go on . it be truly despicable , as my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) say . the plight of woman remain intensely troubling . woman remain second - class citizen in Iran : they continue to receive intensify opposition from the regime ; they face entrenched discrimination in both law and practice ; and they be subject to domestic violence , child marriage , unequal divorce and custody right , mandatory dress code , restrict nationality and travel right , and unfair inheritance law — to name but a few example . woman in Iran have be jail for merely singe in public or publish their work on social medium . perhaps even more troublingly , Iran celebrate the great number of female execution , beat even China on that particular front . Armita Geravand be a 16 - year - old schoolgirl , who be tragically kill through the brutality of the so - call iranian morality police . like Mahsa Amini , her only crime be refuse to wear she hijab . sadly , such story be not isolate in Iran , and I be sad to say that they will continue without significant intervention from international community and the iranian people . I be proud that in this House alone , we have an abundance of great woman represent we ; their contribution be vital and champion by we all . it be shock that , in 2024 , this be far from the case across many other part of the globe . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way yet again . he be make an absolutely brilliant , first - class speech , and shine a light on the despicable , brutal regime in Iran . do he agree that that brutal regime be literally on an execution spree at the moment , have execute more than 350 protester and dissident since the conflict in Gaza begin ? that be a rate of execution of not far off 100 protester per month . do he agree that it be long overdue that the UK and our partner demand that the UN Human Rights Council dispatch an international fact - find mission to Iran to visit the regime ' s prisoner — to meet political prisoner and detain protester — so that , globally , we can finally shine a light on what be happen in Iran ? and , of course , he be right that the irgc should be proscribe . I thank my hon . friend — that be almost a speech rather than an intervention ! I have have the privilege on a number of occasion to visit Ashraf 3 , which be home to some 2 , 700 iranian refugee . the museum on the site exceptionally depict the long struggle that people have endure , with brutal attack and massacre occur all too frequently . in Albania , the regime ' s claw continue to menace the people . the irgc have repeatedly target the Albanian Government through cyber - attack , disinformation and terror attack . I be sadden that , on occasion — most notably in June last year — the camp have be raid by the albanian police force . there have be report of unjustified force and copious amount of pepper spray be use . unfortunately , one man die from the injury that he suffer . I be almost certain that that attack be found on false claim generate by the irgc . the regime hold a power over Albania . its continued attack on cyber - system be use as so - call warning to the Government , blackmail they with threat of continue attack if they do not suppress the right of camp member . I urge the Albanian Government to stand up to those threat . no country should infringe its moral for fear of such a corrupt and wicked enemy . this be a time for western ally to stick together and stand up to malicious terror act . I be glad that our Inter - parliamentary Union delegation will be go to Albania shortly , and I hope that they will raise this issue . the albanian Prime Minister have say publicly that resident of Ashraf 3 should not engage in any political activity — even peaceful conversation . that be tantamount to deny the right to freedom of expression . I be sadden that that announcement come after a show of support for the camp by albanian parliamentarian , show that the dramatic shift in opinion must be down to the negotiation with the IRGC . I hope that the Minister will assure the House that he will offer support to our albanian counterpart , encourage they to stand up to the regime and protect the right of those in that camp , who have already experience too much brutality . this debate come at a time when the world have never be so unsafe . we have a war rage in Europe , attack by the Houthis in the Red sea , an illegal war in Gaza by the Hamas terror group , Hezbollah in Lebanon and war in Syria , as well as other dangerous militant group . the one thing that link all those example be the IRGC , which stand as the head of the snake , funding , training and supply weaponry to all those organisation . its outreach and capability be frankly frightening . the irgc have be find to have supply drone and weapon to Russia as Moscow and Tehran deepen their co - operation in a partnership that be likely to continue and intensify as they commonly seek to weaken the west . furthermore , the irgc provide significant direct funding and training to Hamas in the lead - up to the dreadful 7 October attack . most recently , the Houthis in Yemen have target shipping lane in the Red sea . the Houthi militant group be set up by Iran and remain under its influence . link to those attack , Iran announce that it have subsequently launch into low - earth orbit three satellite that the US believe can be use to more accurately target intercontinental ballistic missile . the regime in Iran ignite a threat not only to the international community , but , perhaps most concerningly , to the domestic security of the UK . individual with iranian link , or who have speak out against the irgc in this country , have frequently be target . furthermore , MI5 announce last year that it have intercept a significant number of Iran - back terror attack . the hon . Member be make an incredibly powerful speech , and I congratulate he on secure the debate . he be quite right : last year , we hear from the director general of MI5 and the head of counter - terrorism policing that they have intervene to disrupt up to 15 kidnapping and assassination attempt in the UK come from Iran . that be why the argument for proscription be such a powerful one . it would not be merely symbolic ; it would be about grant the security service and police force in the UK additional power to truly dismantle any foothold that the IRGC have in the UK that allow it to facilitate those assassination attempt , which we must close down . do he agree that that be why proscription be so important ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . the position here be that the iranian Government be fund professional gang to inflict attack and violence on individual in this country . they have neither mercy nor moral in how far they will go . a spanish politician and vocal opponent of the iranian regime be shoot outside his home by a criminal gang employ by the irgc . we must not allow such despicable attack to occur on domestic soil . it be completely unacceptable that people in this country be be follow home or have to suppress their freedom of expression for fear of be target . I urge the Government to tackle this issue with urgency . the iranian authority have be target BBC Persian staff , who be predominantly base in the UK , and their family since 2009 in an attempt to intimidate they into stop their work as journalist . the intimidation escalate in 2017 and have be at an unprecedented level since September 2022 . BBC Persian staff frequently receive credible death threat , threat of horrific violence , thousand of abusive comment and increase threat to their personal safety on online platform . with several colleague , I be a target of the iranian regime when we attend the annual gathering of the National Council of Resistance of Iran , with delegation from almost every major democracy , back in 2016 . an iranian diplomat try to bomb the conference . he have the audacity to smuggle the bomb through security in diplomatic bag . thankfully , the belgian and french authority apprehend the terrorist and no one be harm . have he succeed , there would have be a world war . the Iranians assume responsibility , and they force the belgian authority to hand over this despicable so - call diplomat after they kidnap two belgian journalist and hold they as hostage . if this do not highlight to the Government that we can not engage in dialogue with the iranian regime , I do not know what will . the key point be that the current policy on Iran be not work . its influence be stretch across the middle east and far . it be time to look for an alternative solution , and I urge the Government to proscribe this merciless regime with utmost priority . I be aware that we have already sanction individual , but we must go far . until we start crack down on the irgc , it will continue to extort and suppress innocent people . its military capacity be grow and , even if it do not already possess a nuclear capability — I have my doubt — its nuclear capability will also grow . the international community must wake up and protect country such as Israel by kill the initial piece of the chain . without funding and support from Iran , terrorist like Hamas will not be able to carry out their dreadful attack . Iran will feel the pinch only if there be full proscription , and I reiterate my plea for the Government to do so . Hezbollah be already proscribe , and it be the birthchild of the irgc . the irgc must therefore be proscribe , too . I have hear the rumour that the Government be hold off such action in order to continue a line of dialogue , but there be no honest or trustworthy dialogue to be have with this terrorist regime . instead , we must show Iran that such action be not and will not be tolerate . fifty per cent . of the IRGC ' s training effort be on indoctrination , create more ruthless , more radical and more committed generation . the danger be only increase , so we must act before it be too late . it be high time that we work together to banish this unlawful regime , to protect innocent protestor and to champion free democratic right across the world — we often take those right for grant . to oppose the iranian regime be no long a political calculation but a simple humanitarian choice . we must support the iranian people and acknowledge the legitimacy of the iranian opposition if we be ever to see a free and democratic Iran . I look forward to hear from colleague on both side of the House . I know that several member who want to take part in this debate have unfortunately have to leave , but I hope we will have excellent reply from my hon . friend the Minister and , indeed , the shadow Minister . order . Mr Paisley , during your intervention on Mr Blackman you make reference to an individual member of the secretariat to an all - party parliamentary group . it be a very serious allegation . if you have any correspondence or information in relation to that individual , could you please pass it to Mr Speaker ? inform I , and I will follow it through . thank you for that ruling , Mr Deputy Speaker . I appreciate that you be take it seriously . I have make arrangement for a substantial dossier of information to be leave with Mr Speaker this afternoon . I be very grateful . I congratulate the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) on set the scene . his passion and interest in this subject be renowned . in my short time in the House , I can not remember a time when he do not lead or sponsor such debate . it seem that for various reason , other who wish to speak have not be able to . it be unfortunate that the input of other have be curtail , but that do not lessen the importance of the issue that the hon . Gentleman have raise . when it come to Iran , we in this place have speak up on many occasion ; indeed , we do so yesterday in the free Iran group with Maryam Rajavi . the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) be at that meeting , and lead and chair it for a short period of time . this be a big issue — a massive issue . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , speak up for those of christian faith , those of other faith and those of no faith . it be clear to I that that be not just about people ' s right to express themselves religiously and the belief that they have , but about stand up for human right . the issue of freedom and democracy in Iran , especially the freedom of religion or belief , continue to escalate — depressingly so . that be why this debate be so important . violation of freedom of religion or belief happen frequently in Iran , and continue to escalate . the hon . member for Harrow East be right to highlight the danger that Iran pose to peace in the middle east : it supply the Houthis with aid and finance , supply Hezbollah in Lebanon with finance and weapon , supply Hamas in Gaza with aid , arm and finance , and supply many terrorist group in Syria in the same way . of course , Iran also supply drone to Russia to use against Ukraine , so it be an instigator of war and an opposer of peace in the middle east . as persecution and violation of religious freedom increase in frequency and impact , I and other member of the APPG have submit several write question to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I be very pleased to see the Minister in his place , because he be always helpful in his response . we have write to the fcdo with a large number of question over a period of time , but unfortunately , response have not be forthcoming . I ask the Minister to introduce some speed into the process , if possible , to secure an answer within the prescribed time : the FCDO say it would respond to our question , and be duty bind to do so , but have not respond yet . the incident we have highlight and the fcdo ' s response to they must be bring to Parliament ' s attention , as well as the importance of develop well policy and sanction against Iran for those action and for its denial of freedom and democracy . the one thing that have always bother I when it come to Iran be its violation against woman and child . they have be attack , brutalise , and scar by acid attack , they have no access to job , education or ownership of property , they do not have the right to marriage , and many other opportunity in society be deny they . over Christmas , several Christians be arrest in Iran , with no response yet from the fcdo — again , we be wait for a response . Iran finally release on temporary bail two journalist who cover the death in custody of Mahsa Amini , which lead to the mass protest in 2022 . we ask the fcdo whether the Minister would make an assessment of the implication of those release for its policy , but as yet , there have be no response . recently , the iranian Government displace Baha ' I farmer by seize farmland that they have be tend for several generation . the fcdo respond to my question on that topic by state : " at the 78th UN General Assembly , we co - sponsor the Iran Human Rights Resolution , call for Iran to eliminate , in law and in practice , all form of discrimination on the basis of thought , conscience , religion or belief . we be committed to promote religious freedom and will continue to work with partner to advocate for the right of the Baha ' I community in Iran . " such action be commendable and appreciate . what action have be take to help implement that resolution ? again , I ask these question because I know the Minister will respond ; I also look forward to the response of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) , and of the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Linlithgow and East Falkirk ( Martyn Day ) . the UK recently enact new sanction against iranian individual for human right violation , include flog as a punishment for exercise freedom of religion or belief . Roya Heshmati be flog by police for not wear a hijab in a picture post on her social medium — I have also pose a question to the fcdo on that topic . what sanction have be impose on those who inflict such persecution ? most importantly , potential violence and armed conflict with other country may impact the right of democracy and freedom , especially for religious minority in Iran , so we must decide what policy be go to be enact . iranian - back group have attack a US base in Jordan , and this bring about the increase of tension between the west and Iran , despite Iran ' s denial of its involvement in the attack — it get its proxy to carry out it out . as armed conflict and violence increase , the oppression of religious minority increase tenfold . for someone to be a Shi ' a , a Baha ' i , a Christian or a member of an ethnic minority in Iran decrease their life expectancy . we must be ever mindful of the situation of religious minority in Iran , but also of what the potential effect may be of UK action against Iran through sanction and change in diplomatic relation . the hon . member for Harrow East make a point about what we need to do and to do more of , and it be quite clear that the sanction the Government be impose be not effective . because of that , we have to look at other method , such as strong sanction or other idea . again , I would like to hear from the Minister , if possible , what thought he have about how we can hit Iran hard . Iran be continue to arbitrarily detain human right defender and 2023 Nobel peace prize recipient Narges Mohammadi , subject she to torture and other ill treatment by deliberately deny or severely delay her access to adequate healthcare to coerce she into adhere to Iran ' s abusive and degrade compulsory veiling law . this place narge Mohammadi ' s health at great risk , particularly as she have serious heart and lung condition . jail be never good for someone ' s health , and if they be in bad health , it be even bad . if Iran be willing to imprison and mistreat such an individual , what be to prevent it from do so with ordinary individual in Iran who have religious identity or belief different from those of the majority ? although we may not be able to force Iran to change its law , we can place further requirement on their do trade with the UK . when we look at trade last year , we see that the UK export nearly £ 224 million of trade to Iran , and in return Iran sell back some £ 190 million . what regulation and policy be company require to adhere to for such trade to occur ? be there any human right and religious freedom requirement in place , or inspection of company in Iran to ensure that they adhere to human right working condition and do not discriminate against religious minority in hire or in the workplace ? these be the thing I would like to see . I conclude with this : the need for Iran to raise its treatment of religious minority and to provide citizen with democracy be become more and more necessary . that be why the hon . Gentleman ' s debate today be so important , and we hope — we look to everyone for this , but ultimately to the Minister — that the response will be one that give we heart . as you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , I speak today on behalf of my brother and sister in the faith in Iran , who do not have the opportunity to worship their God as I do . it be for that reason that I think I have to be here to speak for they . I be grateful to the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for secure this debate . the issue of freedom and democracy in Iran be a very important one , and I find myself commend he for his speech and agree with every point he make . as we have hear , the issue be really about a lack of democracy and a lack of freedom . election will of course be hold on 1 March to Iran ' s Parliament , but they can in no way can be consider free , fair or credible . it be more of a selection than an election , with the unelected , 12 - strong Guardian Council have the power to approve candidate . with a track record of ban moderate and reformer from stand , it be no surprise that many candidate have already be disqualify . this body can also veto law make by the Parliament . my litmus test for fair , free and credible democratic election be : can any individual freely stand for election , can anyone vote in secret for any individual who be stand and can the sovereignty of the people be exercise by their representative ? clearly , Iran fail on all those count . the reality be that Iran be rule as a totalitarian theocracy : it be not a democracy . ultimate power rest in the hand of the country ' s Supreme Leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , and the unelected institution under his control . corruption persist across all level , with powerful actor such as the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps operate beyond scrutiny . medium and civil society face restriction hinder their role as independent watchdog for ensure transparency and accountability . the regime , as we have hear , be ruthlessly hold in place by its intelligence and security force the IRGC and be support by the wide apparatus of the state , include the judiciary , the Ministry of Intelligence , the police and other . iranian authority have extensively use Iran ' s repressive machinery to censor discussion of these issue and persecute woman , human right defender and anti - death penalty activist . political activist who support democratic change have be particularly vulnerable to detention and death over many year , despite which the organise resistance , the People ' s Mujaheddin Organisation of Iran — or MEK — have remain determined to establish a free democratic and secular republic , and I wish they every success with that struggle . the level of oppression and human right abuse by the current regime in Iran be truly appalling and be get bad . accord to Freedom House , Iran have decrease its total global freedom status from a derisory 14 out of 100 in 2022 to 12 out of 100 last year . Freedom House give Iran zero score for most area of fundamental right include : the individual right to practice or express religion , faith or non - belief in public and private ; free and independent medium ; the Government operate with openness and transparency ; safeguard against corruption ; the question of whether the freely elect head of Government and national legislative representative determine the policy of the Government ; and fair and free election . the UN special rapporteur on the situation of human right in the Islamic Republic of Iran express alarm at " the disproportionate number of execution of member of minority community , in particular the baluch and kurdish minority " , and I share this concern . last year , at least 864 people be execute , the high figure since 2017 . any use of the death penalty be unacceptable to I and I believe this substantial increase reflect the regime ' s inability to suppress the protest that have arise . woman lack equality and face discrimination in both law and practice . example include a woman ' s testimony in court be give half the weight of a man ' s and unequal compensation for victim ' family . woman also face disparity in inheritance right . the regime fail to protect woman and child from sex trafficking while Iranians and migrant worker , especially from Afghanistan , be subject to force labour and debt bondage . the reality be that some 88 million Iranians be effectively live in what be a state prison , otherwise know as the Islamic Republic of Iran . but it do not have to be that way and I applaud the courage and determination of those who have stand up to the regime and protest for the right that we take for grant , and have do so at great risk to themselves . the ongoing uprising begin in September 2022 with the arrest of a kurdish iranian girl in Tehran by the Tehran morality police for not veil , after which she be brutally beat , fall into a coma and tragically lose her life while in custody . that brutal killing of Mahsa Amini prompt widespread protest across Iran , with thousand of people demand regime change for a secular democratic republic . the ongoing uprising have result in over 800 unlawful death , include of minor and woman . additionally , around 30 , 000 iranian face cruel treatment in jail , include torture and sexual violence , highlight the dire situation in Iran . ultimately , Iran ' s future must be decide by its own people , but give that they have virtually no avenue for reform , the people have no option but to resist , to demonstrate , to defend themselves , and to seek alternative form of opposition . Iran have be witness a massive popular uprising — a call for freedom and democracy largely lead by woman and young people . I have hear it describe by some as a revolution , and I hope it be a successful one . it have clearly rattle the Tehran regime and I believe this be partly behind the regime promote and encourage conflict outwith its border as it seek to dampen the momentum of the protest inside Iran while simultaneously rally the regime ' s own force behind the Supreme Leader ' s fundamentalist agenda . as we have hear , Iran be the big state sponsor of terrorism . this exporting of international terrorism by Iran can not and will not be tolerate , nor should be its support for Russia in the war with Ukraine , use of cyber - attack , or hostage - take diplomacy , and I condemn the involvement of iranian official in the killing of US servicemen . accord to report in the Times on Tuesday this week : " Tehran have already be accuse by MI5 and police of more than a dozen assassination and kidnap plot in Britain against dissident and medium organisation in the past two year . official have previously express fear that , embolden by the situation in the Middle East , Iran could ramp up its activity in the UK and present a wide terror threat . " although I welcome the recent announcement of additional sanction on senior iranian official , I wonder why we be not take an even strong approach . at a minimum , we should urgently proscribe the irgc as a terrorist organisation . I have lose count of the number of time that I and other have call for that action . Proscription would be a tangible step in the UK in the furtherance of freedom and democracy in Iran . we should also support call for the UN to dispatch international observer to visit Iran ' s prison and to meet those detain by the regime . we should all support the democratic aspiration of the iranian people . I pay tribute to the work of the resistance unit that emerge in late 2017 and have help inspire Iranians to defy the prevail tyranny . in conclusion , the SNP stand in full solidarity with Iranians journalist , woman , man and young people call for democratic change . the bravery of iranian citizen stand up against brutality and dictatorship be beyond inspire . I wish they every success in seek a new democratic and secular republic in Iran . it will be well for they and the world when they succeed . I commend the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for introduce this debate and the Backbench Business Committee for allow the time for it . this debate be important and timely . although we have have only a few contribution , they have be significant and important . the hon . Member mention the Ashraf 3 camp in Albania , and although it be not entirely clear what have happen there it be important to note his point that the Inter - Parliamentary Union , for which I be on the executive of the british group , will be send a delegation to Albania . I will make a point of make sure , as good I can , that the delegation raise the matter in its visit . at the start of my contribution , I make the point that the authoritarian and theocratic regime in Iran present and preside over a reprehensible repressive state . as have be say , there be little real democracy in today ' s Iran . at the beginning of March , there will be election to the iranian Parliament and the Assembly of Experts . as have be the case in the past , the Council of Guardians will prevent candidate stand whom the Supreme Leader do not approve . we expect that those who be block will be moderate and reform candidate . the election will rightly attract a great deal of attention , not least because they be the first to be hold since the widespread protest in Iran follow the death of 22 - year - old Mahsa Amini . as I be sure many member be aware , her death in September 2022 occur in police custody after she have be arrest for not comply with strict islamic dress code . follow her death , there be widespread protest across Iran for a number of month . they be cruelly repress by the regime , but it be important to remember and to pay tribute to the many thousand of woman and girl who be brave enough to take part . indeed , I be proud to speak in an event in this House organise by the Azadi Network . speaker be from all party in this House , and they demonstrate a real solidarity , which all party have clearly express , and I stress that that be so important . it be the House of Commons say to the iranian people , " we be with you . " the protest be subject to appal brutality in Iran , mete out by the iranian authority . it be estimate that at least 20 , 000 people be detain , include many child . it be estimate , too , that more than 500 people be kill , and many more be seriously injure . the violence do not stop with the end of the demonstration : there have be many allegation of torture and appal treatment of detainee , include report of sexual and gender - base violence against woman , man and child . as have be say , Amnesty International have report that iranian security force be guilty of use the most terrible sexual violence against people who be merely peaceful protester . it be important to note the comment make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who speak eloquently about the lack of human right and point out the lack of religious freedom in today ' s Iran . if the iranian regime be repressive at home , it be guilty of aggression abroad . in fact , it be among the world ' s foremost state sponsor of terrorism . Iran , through its so - call proxy , be guilty of help to initiate violence across much of the middle east . Iran have supply huge support to Hamas in Gaza . it have supply and support Hezbollah in Lebanon and be still do so . in Iraq — include in Kurdistan — and in Syria , iranian sponsor militant have attack US force . on Sunday , an Iran - back group be responsible for a drone attack on a US military base in Jordan that result in the death of three american soldier and the injury of many other people . as we all know , the Houthis , who again be closely link to the iranian regime , have be conduct missile and drone attack on international shipping in the Red sea . of course , the US and the UK have be undertake surgical strike against Houthi target in Yemen , and Labour be on record as support that proportionate action . far afield , the iranian regime have develop close link with Russia and have supply a large number of drone that be be use in Ukraine , so there can be absolutely no doubt about the iranian regime ' s malign influence across the middle east and the world . on Tuesday , I raise Iran ' s destructive activity across the globe with the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , at fcdo question . he indicate that the Foreign Secretary be in the region that day and hold meeting on the very issue . he also say that the Government be " work extensively with Jordan , Egypt , Qatar , Israel , Saudi Arabia and America . " — [ Official Report , 30 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 710 . ] I would be appreciative if the Minister indicate in his reply how those meeting go and how the ongoing discussion will proceed on this important issue . we be aware that Iran be active in this country . as a number of hon . member , include the hon . member for Harrow East , say , the head of MI5 have previously refer to potential threat by Iran to kidnap or kill british or UK - base people . in 2015 , the police discover an iranian - link bomb factory in London . since the beginning of 2022 , Iranians have be responsible for at least 15 potential threat against british or UK - base individual . that be recognise by a number of hon . member in the Chamber . early this week , the Times report that a number of member of the iranian diaspora who have speak out against the iranian regime have be warn by counter - terrorism police that they face an increase threat . it be also important to note that the iranian authority have be systematically target BBC persian staff , intimidate their family in Iran as well as intimidate staff in this country . since the protest in Iran in 2022 , the BBC security team have report that the risk to BBC persian staff have " increase " . because of those very real threat , I believe that the sanction introduce , and the further one announce , should be welcome . I hope , however , that the Government will closely examine other way in which pressure can be bring to bear on the appalling iranian regime . one additional measure ought to be the total proscription of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . I understand that there be ongoing debate in Government about this , but if they do not bring forward appropriate measure that would lead to a total ban of the irgc in this country , Labour will do so if it form a Government . if the Government do that now , Labour will support it . I hope that the Government will respond in a truly positive way . this have be an important debate with excellent contribution . this issue should unite all of we who believe strongly in democracy , freedom and human right in this country and throughout the world . I be grateful to hon . member of the Backbench Business Committee and my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , whom I have know many year , for secure this debate . it be my honour to respond on behalf of the Government . I be grateful for the contribution of hon . member and will respond to the point that have be raise . the share concern that have be echo across the Dispatch Boxes and from all those who have participate speak volume about the issue that have be raise . unwavering support for democracy and freedom worldwide be central to Britain ' s diplomatic engagement . that be why Iran ' s continued violation of its people ' s right , in conjunction with its widening pattern of malign activity around the world , remain a high priority for the Government . we will not tolerate Iran ' s illegal threat against UK - base journalist , its escalate nuclear programme , its desperate coalition with Russia or its reckless use of proxy in the region . as hon . member will be aware , the shocking death of Mahsa Amini in September 2022 spark a popular grassroot call for change . the aptly name " Woman , Life , Freedom " protest challenge decade of gender - base discrimination and violence . woman and girl proudly defy discriminatory and degrading mandatory hijab law , at great risk to their safety and security . the iranian authority respond to the protest with intimidation and violence , by kill at least 500 people and detain 19 , 000 . they show complete disregard for the right of their own people . there have be few protest since then , but we should not take that as evidence of a diminish appetite for change among the iranian people . suppress dissent may momentarily silence the people , but it will never kill their desire for a more just future . the UK have be consistent and clear in its condemnation of Iran ' s undemocratic and disproportionate response to the protest movement . Iran have be designate an fcdo human right priority country . since October 2022 , we have sanction 94 individual and entity for human right violation , include decision maker responsible for draft and implement Iran ' s mandatory hijab legislation , and political and security official involve in the crackdown . at the heart of the popular uprising be the right of woman and girl , which be a key element of our foreign policy . the UK Government stand in solidarity with they as they continue to show immense bravery in the face of brutal repression . the enforcement of mandatory hijab law have become a symbol of gender inequality in iranian society . but across the board , woman and girl do not enjoy the same right and privilege as man . they face unequal right — as highlight so well by my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , who be no long in her place — in marriage , divorce , child custody , and be even prevent from attend sporting event . ten of thousand of girl continue to be marry under the age of 15 , and the age of criminal responsibility be just eight year and nine month . female labour force participation remain one of the low globally at 17 % , and 41 % of woman between the age of 15 to 29 be unemployed . woman ' s representation in the iranian Parliament sit at 5 . 6 % . the UK be take several bilateral and multilateral measure to support woman and girl in Iran . we consistently raise woman and girl ' human right issue directly with the iranian Government , condemn abuse and push for change . last year , the Foreign Secretary host a roundtable with iranian woman ' s right activist and join they in call for an end to impunity and violence . we continue to commend the brave work of iranian human right defender such as Narges Mohammadi , whose resolute commitment to change do not waver in the face of threat . we be also work with international partner to mount pressure . at the 78th UN General Assembly , we co - sponsor the Iran human right resolution condemn the target repression of woman and girl . we call for the release of woman human right defender imprison for exercise their fundamental freedom . we also co - sponsor the fact find mission with a mandate to report on the situation for woman and girl in Iran , and we look forward to hear its finding at the upcoming Human Rights Council session . at the very centre of freedom and human right be the right to life . the UK oppose the death penalty as a matter of principle in all circumstance across the world . Iran ' s surge use of execution be a matter of grave concern for the United Kingdom . last year , Iran execute more than 700 people , include protester , as have be highlight by my hon . friend the Members for Harrow East and for Southend West . far too often the death penalty be impose absent of any fair trial or due process , and ethnic minority such as Kurds and Baluchis make up a disproportionate number of execution , as rightly highlight by the hon . member for Linlithgow and East Falkirk ( Martyn Day ) . the Government be use all lever at our disposal , include work with the international community , to push back against this egregious crime . at the Human Rights Council last year , we sign a joint statement alongside partner call for Iran to establish an immediate moratorium on execution with a view to abolish the death penalty altogether . at the 78th session of the UN General Assembly , we urge Iran to commute the sentence for child offender on death row . we will continue to monitor Iran ' s imposition of the death penalty on protester , and we have make clear to Iran , both in public and in private , our opposition to its application of the death penalty . I turn now to freedom of religion or belief , an important issue that be close to the heart of the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and indeed my own , and the heart of other involve in this debate . it be very clear that religious minority face continue abuse of their most basic right . religious minority , include Baha ' I , Christian and sunni Muslim community , suffer discrimination in law and practice , include in access to education , employment , political office and — the most basic of all — place of worship . in the international sphere , we have call on Iran to allow every individual the right to freedom of thought , conscience , religion or belief in accordance with its obligation under the international covenant on civil and political right . in October , we call on Iran to release imprison elderly and medically vulnerable Baha ' be and reassert our commitment to work with partner to promote the right of Baha ' I communitie in Iran . I will follow up on the response from the fcdo that the hon . member for Strangford be talk about . we can discuss that after this debate if he would like to do so . we continue to leverage our relationship with human right organisation and religious community in the UK to highlight and condemn abuse . the UK ' s dedicated and incredibly hard - work special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) work on the world stage to push back against abuse of basic freedom at all opportunity , include in Iran . we have an excellent debate on this subject in Westminster Hall last week . a free press be a central tenet of every healthy democracy , and Iran fall short in this area , too . as have be highlight , two woman journalist who report on Mahsa Amini ' s death and the subsequent protest be give lengthy prison sentence simply for do their job , while the iranian authority continue to use surveillance to censor and coerce the population . as a member of the Media Freedom Coalition , the UK have call on Iran to respect its commitment under international law . that also mean co - operate with all UN body and mandate holder , include the UN special rapporteur , who be responsible for report on human right abuse in Iran . during the debate , we hear of concern about BBC persian correspondent . we remain committed to ensure that journalist at home and abroad can do their job without fear of retribution . the Government ' s law enforcement and security service continue to work with international partner to identify , deter and respond to threat to UK journalist , include those work for BBC Persian . last week we sanction member of the irgc for an assassination plot against UK - base persian language journalist at Iran International . our priority be the safety and security of the UK and the people who live here . since January 2022 the UK have identify at least 15 threat — highlight by the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) and , indeed , the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) — to the life of UK - base individual , include journalist . that be clearly unacceptable . the UK Government , law enforcement agency and our international partner be work together to ensure that persian language medium can operate without editorial interference and threat from Iran . I be glad that the Minister have reflect on that point . let I say again that to proscribe the irgc would not be symbolic ; it would be do to reflect the very serious threat that it pose to , in particular , the journalist who be here in the UK , and to equip our security service and police force with additional power to really go after those individual . it seem that we be send the Charity Commission to investigate institution or basis that be believe to have link with the irgc . I view the Charity Commission with the utmost respect , but we lack those other power that we would enable we to send in those force that would recognise the threat that the irgc pose and drive it out of this country . I know that the hon . Member feel passionately about this issue , and I know that my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East feel strongly about it as well . that be exactly the point that I be go to come to . several Members have raise the issue of the irgc , which we have already sanction in its entirety . the hon . member for Halifax will be familiar with what I be about to say , but I will put it on the record . we have real concern about the intent and activity of the irgc . the separate list of terrorist organisation proscription be keep under review , but we do not routinely comment on whether an organisation be under consideration . we be actively disrupt iranian malign activity by mean of a range of tool . this be about use effective measure to curb Iran ' s destabilising activity , which have be highlight by the hon . member for Halifax and other throughout the debate . the UK maintain sanction on more than 400 iranian individual , entity and align group for role in weapon proliferation , regional conflict , human right violation and terrorism , and more than 47 irgc official have be sanction since October 2022 . comment have be make about Iran ' s interference in other country , notably , today , in Albania , which be typical of its nefarious tactic . we support partner in the face of pressure from Iran , and , follow the visit of the hon . member for Caerphilly and that of the Inter - Parliamentary Union , we will be interested to find out whether there be any other intelligence that we need to learn from ; if so , we will gather it in . the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , who be no long in the Chamber , raise a sad case involve the secretariat of an all - party parliamentary group . we would be very interested to see the dossier that the APPG have give to Mr Speaker if that be appropriate , and we will do anything we can to follow that up . point have also be make about Iran ' s nuclear programme , which have never be more advanced than it be today and which threaten international peace and security . Iran ' s behaviour since those negotiation have make progress much more difficult , and we be work with our international partner to co - ordinate our response . we be clear about the fact that Iran pose an unacceptable threat to Israel , for instance through its long - term support for Hamas . in December , designation be make under our new Iran sanction regime , target the head of the IRGC Quds Force , IRGC individual , and an entity link to Iran ' s relationship with proxy group such as Hamas . other point be make about what we be do in the light of the action in which Iran have be engage through actor such as the Houthis . the target strike , which have be support by member on both side of the House , have be , as we have say today , limited , necessary and proportionate . military action be , of course , always a last resort . we continue our diplomatic effort , talk to country in the region such as Oman and Turkey — the hon . member for Caerphilly be interested in these point — but we provide warning after warning , include at the UN Security Council and directly to the Iran Foreign Minister , yet the Houthis have continue the attack . if necessary , the UK will not hesitate to respond again in self - defence ; we can not stand by and allow these attack to go unchallenged . in conclusion , it be clear that iranian authority be impose policy at odd with the value of freedom and democracy . as have be say across the Chamber , their upcoming election be clearly not go to be free and fair , and will not address the concern set out in this debate . for as long as that remain the case , we will continue to work across government , and with the international community , to hold Iran to account for its unacceptable behaviour . the repression of woman and girl , the uninhibited use of the death penalty and violent crackdown on dissent voice within Iran can not go unchallenged , but that be also true of Iran ' s behaviour in the region and beyond . we will continue to work with international partner to make it clear to Iran that we will not stand for destabilising activity that threaten our value and our security , and indeed the security of the region . like the iranian people , we want to see an Iran that respect the right and freedom of its citizen , and respect international law and norm . that be why we be urge its leader to listen to the iranian people , who be call for a well future . I be grateful for the Minister ' s comment about the dossier that be be pass to the Speaker in relation to the all - party parliamentary group . for the remain two minute , I call Bob Blackman . with the leave of the House , let I thank hon . member from across the House for send a joint message to the people currently administer Iran that we want to see a free and democratic Iran , with woman , in particular , have the right that they would enjoy in this country and in other country around the world . we see that the United States be likely to take action in the next few day against iranian target as a result of the recent murder of the three soldier , and the Minister set out a series of measure that this country be take to combat Iran and , in particular , the irgc . clearly , however , this be not work ; the number of execution continue to increase and the nefarious activity of the IRGC continue . I find it difficult to understand why we do not take the ultimate step and proscribe the irgc in its entirety . I , for one , will continue to lobby for that to be do , as will Members from across the House . I understand that the Minister can not answer that today , but the Government need to consider the matter and come forward . we have proscribe Hamas , Hezbollah and , recently , Hizb ut - Tahrir , so surely the head of the snake must be proscribe . we can then look forward to a free and democratic Iran , and , as we always say , next year in a free and democratic Tehran . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House condemn unreservedly the action of the government of Iran and the violent conduct of the police in suppress protest in that country ; be deeply concerned over Tehran ' s grow use of terrorism , espionage , cyber attack and hostage - take diplomacy to restrict and eliminate the iranian democratic opposition , the National Council of Resistance of Iran ( NCRI ) , target in particular member of the organise opposition , PMOI ( MEK ) , in Ashraf 3 , Albania and NCRI gathering since 2018 ; note that the resistance be struggle for the establishment of a secular democratic republic ; call on european government , especially the government of Albania , to counter Tehran ' s illegal activity and uphold the right of member of the iranian opposition pmoi ( MEK ) at Ashraf - 3 in accordance with the 1951 Geneva Refugee Convention , the European Convention of Human Rights and international law ; be far concern by report of threat make to iranian dissident in the UK ; urge the Government to include Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps on the list of proscribe terrorist organisation ; and far call upon the Government to work with international counterpart to ensure that further sanction be place on Iran without delay and Iran be hold to account for its illegal activity at home and abroad . blackpool : Regeneration Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) it be a pleasure to open this Adjournment debate on the regeneration of Bond Street and Waterloo Road in Blackpool , two area of my constituency in particular need of capital investment , for reason that will become clear . before I go on to speak particularly about those two area , it would be remiss of I not to elaborate more on the significant level of capital and revenue regeneration money that have already fly into my constituency , thank to the effort of this government : £ 400 million be the total of additional investment that have come into Blackpool since I be elect in 2019 — it be a staggering figure . for all the criticism throw at this Government by the Opposition , the commitment of Ministers and different Prime Ministers from this government to level up , and to Blackpool in particular , can not be understate . that commitment be already bear fruit in the substantial progress we be make , not just in term of level up the different part of Blackpool , but in get people the well - pay job they need so badly and in welcome investment into my constituency . I would be here until midnight if I go through all the individual funding pot we have be allocate , but I will not test your patience , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will give the House just a flavour of the different funding that have come to Blackpool , courtesy of this Government ' s faith in the work we be do locally . we have secure £ 40 million for the court relocation , which have allow a £ 300 million private investment project — one of the large private investment in the whole of the north - west — on the old Blackpool central train station site . it will create 1 , 000 job and lead to ten of million of pound of additional consumer spending come to Blackpool . we have be grant £ 40 million for a brand new Multiversity , provide the next generation with the skill they need to get on in life . some £ 39 . 5 million , provide by one of the large town deal in the country , have be spend upgrade the Blackpool illumination , create thousand of job at the enterprise zone and a new sport hub at Revoe . on top of that , we have £ 15 million in levelling - up funding for transport improvement in the town centre , a furth £ 8 million in levelling - up funding to redo the former post office building on Abingdon Street , and a plethora of extra funding for health , education , crime , cultural and sporting project , all of which will lay the groundwork for investment in regeneration in Blackpool . if we be get so much money into Blackpool , what be the purpose of this Adjournment debate ? it would be remiss of I not to point out that Blackpool be the most deprived local authority area in England , and it have often be say that my constituency be the most in need of level up . the community that be the subject of this debate be in the top 0 . 1 % most deprived community in the entire country and in the second most deprived ward of some 8 , 500 ward in England . that ward and the community of Revoe , Central Drive , Bond Street and Waterloo Road have significant challenge with poor health ; low life expectancy , on a par with sub - Saharan Africa ; a drug - relate death total that be the high in the western world ; and skill and education deficiency that be sadly the high in western Europe . the unemployment total be four time the national average . in addition to those problem , the housing stock in these community be among the bad in the country . it be estimate that a third of the property in inner Blackpool be deem to be " non - decent " by current standard . poor housing be associate with a wide range of health condition , and our local NHS practitioner estimate that the cost to the council and other local stakeholder be an additional £ 11 million because of the health condition with which people present as a consequence of their appalling housing condition . on top of that , some 10 % of our working - age population be out of the workforce due to ill health and the vast majority of those people will live in substandard housing . we talk about level up , and it be great for minister to cut the ribbon on a shiny new high street or a brilliant new project — we want that as part of the housing - lead regeneration project I be talk about — but level up be ultimately about change people ' s life . it be about empower they to have the educational opportunity , the health outcome and the employment opportunity that people want to see . in the case of Blackpool , that come down to housing , because far too many local people live in housing that be not fit for human being 100 year ago , and certainly be not nowadays . it be a stain on this country that , in Blackpool , we have housing in the condition that it be currently in , so housing - lead regeneration be desperately need . despite some of the challenge that I have outline , the area of Waterloo Road , Bond Street and Revoe be proud community where people live with hope and aspiration not just for themselves , but for their child as well . there be many successful new business operate — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) despite the challenge in these community , the high street be embed with many new and successful business , such as Sarah at the Pitstop Caf é , the Bull pub , Rick at the Tube Station and Chris at Royal Oak Furnishings to mention just a few . but they need support if their high street be to thrive and if they be to make a successful going concern of those business . as conservative , we believe in fiscal prudence and discipline and appreciate that the Government can not throw money at every problem and just make it okay . we can not legislate to increase people ' s living standard . ultimately , it come down to private investment , business be creative , and people work hard and generate wealth in the community . as conservative , we have to recognise that the market can on occasion fail , and there can be such a deterioration of condition in particular locality that government intervention for the long term be need . I would strongly argue that this be a unique case where the condition in this community be such that it can not continue without Government investment . in short , these community have be thrive in the past and they can do so again , but only with Government help . not only be this community a particularly important case and in need of regeneration and investment , but I would argue that Bond Street and the Waterloo area have be miss out time and again when we talk about capital investment . when Blackpool Council have ask my opinion on the levelling - up process , I have state consistently for the past four year that this area should be an absolute priority for local and national Government investment . yet time and again , level - up bid have come forward to this Government without this community be include . that be not to say that I be not thankful for the funding that I have previously outline — of course I be . those scheme be important and will help to create job , but people in these community feel that they have be throw on the scrapheap , and that local and national Government do not care about what go on in their area and do not want to see it improve . I know that that be not the case from this Government ' s point of view , and I know that the Government be work with Blackpool Council , which , after year of ignore this community , have finally wake up over the past 12 or 18 month and promise to work with the Government to try to come up with a bespoke package for this area , along the line of housing - lead regeneration and improvement to the high street . I be so pleased that the Government be work with Blackpool Council not just on this particular project , but on many of the other initiative and programme that I have already outline . I would like to think that I have articulate why this community be a special case for regeneration . civic pride be so important in public life , and I be afraid that many people in this community have lose hope . when people lose hope , it be very difficult for they to get it back . for four year , I have be tell people that regeneration money will come . it be important that other area of Blackpool get their fair share , too , but I have say that regeneration money will come . People be now expect the Government and Blackpool Council to deliver on those promise . I know the Minister understand the importance of people live in good housing . the fact be that level up ultimately come down to improve somebody ' s own ability to use their natural skill and flair to get on in life . it be so important that the fundamental issue in these community — poor housing — be address through the partnership with Blackpool Council . I be lead to believe that thank to the hard work of not just this Minister but some of his predecessor , the business case for that project have be transfer to the Treasury for sign - off . the purpose of this debate be to request that the Minister and the Secretary of State do everything that they can to continue their correspondence with the Treasury and try to get the project over the line . the people of Bond Street , Waterloo Road , Revoe and Central Drive be look at the outcome of this debate with interest . this be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to get this community the funding that it so badly need . this Conservative Government have be fantastic in stand by the people of Blackpool for the next four year . I have every confidence that they will be able to get the project over the line and give the area a new lease of life , and some hope at long last . I thank the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Scott Benton ) for his speech , and for raise this important issue . I will start where he end , by refer specifically to his word on Waterloo Road and Bond Street . I assure he and his community that Homes England and the council be work closely to find the good possible opportunity in the town for regeneration . I think he will agree — I hope he will — that the local council , with all its local knowledge and understanding , be clearly the well place organisation to speak to specific plan , but I reassure he of our ambition to level up and secure the last change for Blackpool for which he have advocate since he come to this place in 2019 . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s patience , and that of the community that he represent , in await further news . let I reassure he that I fully recognise how important the project be for Blackpool . it continue to be a priority for my Department . I will of course discuss the issue with the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , and collectively we will do all that we can with the Treasury to press the case that the hon . Gentleman have make today . I want to get those specific on the record for he . let I now say a few word about Blackpool . the hon . member for Blackpool South do not need I to tell he that it be a town of incredible strength and resilience , ally with enormous potential . Blackpool ' s tourism economy alone be worth more than £ 1 . 4 billion , support in excess of 20 , 000 job . reply to this debate have remind I , with a tinge of emotion , of a very enjoyable boyhood holiday that I have with my grandmother in Blackpool . my memory be a little hazy , for reason that I really can not recall , with regard to attendance at successive Tory party conference . it must be something to do with the air that make the mind a little fuzzy . of course , the famous scene of Rita Fairclough and Alan Bradley , beam Blackpool into the sit room of million of our fellow citizen , leave an indelible impression on so many mind — hopefully encourage people to use the tram , but to be a little careful when alight from they . the hon . Gentleman ' s speech and work have rightly remind we that Blackpool should not be see just as a holiday and tourist destination , as delightful as that is , and as important as it be for the economy . it be home to many business and thousand of people , with all their link housing , education , and health service need , together with their aspiration for hope , job security , economic growth and a well life for their child . it have be restrain for too long by some deeply rooted societal challenge in health , in housing and in skill and diverse investment , and the hon . Gentleman set out some of those in his remark . he make the case , as he always do , for the press need for regeneration , and the dramatic statistic he use to underpin his argument only serve to illuminate that point still far . that be why the Government have be work in partnership with local leader to level up the town . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for reference the investment of around £ 400 million in the town since the Government take office . that be a phenomenal level of investment , and I hope it speak to the faith and confidence that this Government have in the whole of the north of England and in Blackpool in particular . we support their vision to make Blackpool well , a lead UK tourism destination and a brilliant place in which to live and work , with improved job , housing and skill . we be commit to work in partnership with Blackpool Council to boost opportunity and restore local pride through level up housing and living standard and restore pride of place . Blackpool have receive more than £ 100 million of levelling - up funding alone since 2019 , as well as investment help to unlock a major £ 300 million development , as the hon . Gentleman say . that include £ 40 million from round 2 of the levelling - up fund to create that important state - of - the - art learning centre for more than 1 , 000 people , the Multiversity , which will replace the age Blackpool and the Fylde College facility with new state - of - the - art facility in the town centre . another £ 15 million from round 3 of the fund will improve traffic flow , access to public transport and infrastructure for cyclist and pedestrian — all key artery and route to see people move across their town , visitor move freely , job be create and business be do . as the hon . Gentleman know , the town be benefit from just shy of £ 40 million of investment from the town fund , which be be spend on a host of job creation and tourism - boost project . he will know that that include rejuvenate the famous Blackpool illumination — and they be indeed famous — to attract more visitor to the town in the usually quiet autumn and winter period . it be the unique selling point of Blackpool to have that marvellous attraction in those dark month of the year . I know the hon . Gentleman ' s love of football , so of course I must mention the creation of a new sport village , which combine leisure , education , and residential facility , while help to address health deprivation and wellbee and provide much strong link with Blackpool Football Club . the town be also benefit from the wide Lancashire devolution deal , announce in the autumn statement by the Chancellor , through which £ 20 million will be provide to Lancashire Combined County Authority , along with a furth £ 1 million to support the authority in the early stage of the deal . the adult education budget will also be devolve as part of the deal — this government once again trust local decision maker and local community leader to help shape the place that they want their people to live in . as the hon . Gentleman have reference , housing be a key focus of the partnership work between Government and Blackpool . I thank he again for set out the opportunity for regeneration in Waterloo Road and Bond Street , which be indeed interesting and exciting . if we be to truly achieve our share levelling - up ambition for Blackpool , we must ensure that there be as wide a range as possible of quality home across different tenure . to unlock Blackpool ' s immense economic potential , we want to see more home , safe home , well home , in well - design neighbourhood that will help to attract and retain skilled resident in the town . part of our approach be through legislation — the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which will apply decent home standard to the private rent sector for the first time . this will ensure that tenant benefit from home that be safe and decent , and will support the Government ' s ambition to reduce the number of non - decent rent home by 50 % by 2030 — and one hope that we will exceed that target . we know , of course , that the majority of landlord already provide decent housing and a good service for their tenant , but there be always room for improvement . the decent home standard will help landlord by simplify and clarify requirement , and establish a level playing field , back up by consistent enforcement . as the hon . Gentleman will know , we be run a pilot for the decent home standard in Blackpool to improve standard in area that be in great need , as part of our mission to halve the number of non - decent home by 2030 . the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar , be in Blackpool in January , when he have the opportunity to see some of the fantastic work be undertake locally , with Government support , to improve the standard of home in the town . physical regeneration of the build environment be vital if we be to truly level up Blackpool . as the hon . member for Blackpool South be aware , my Department , alongside Homes England , have be work closely with the council to develop transformational plan to improve the quality of housing . I hope that we will be able to say more about that in due course . the hon . Gentleman have advocate so strongly for his town , as he always do . he need not convince I — he preach to the choir , if you like — that Blackpool have incredible potential . I be proud of the work that this Government be do , in partnership with local leader and with he , to level up the town . I thank he once again for raise this important issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .