Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — devolution : Crown Estate what recent discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on the potential merit of devolve the Crown Estate . I wish to start by pay tribute to Sir Billy Boston , the trailblaze Welsh rugby league legend who receive a knighthood this week . it be fitting that Sir Billy be first recipient of a knighthood for service to rugby league , and I commend those colleague who have campaign so hard for this well - deserve award . this Government be totally focused on take maximum advantage of the opportunity that float offshore wind in the Celtic sea present for Wales . the industry have the potential to create more than 5 , 000 job and bring £ 1 . 4 billion of investment into the UK economy in come year . we do not support devolution of the Crown Estate , as that would risk market fragmentation , jeopardise those job and the significant investment that Wales deserve . in contrast to that , recent research by the Crown Estate Scotland have reveal that in one 12 - month period , the Crown Estate help its tenant to generate an economic impact of £ 2 . 1 billion , and support almost 17 , 000 job . a decade on from the devolution of the Crown Estate ' s asset and revenue , scottish voter be enjoy the benefit . how can the Secretary of State continue to justify withhold the same profit from Wales , when in Scotland , those profit be be put back into the scottish purse , where they belong ? I be afraid that I will not take any lecture on the Crown Estate from the SNP , whose mismanagement of the scottish seabed have see scottish asset sell off on the cheap . we be focus on do whatever it take to secure the more than 5 , 000 job , and billion of pound of investment , that the Crown Estate can help to unlock for Wales . devolve the Crown Estate sound like such a wonderful idea , but the truth be that it really be not , and the continued lobbying and loud chat about devolve the Crown Estate be jeopardise future investment in Wales , and job . do the Secretary of State agree ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . if we be to devolve the Crown Estate and introduce a new entity , that would risk market fragmentation , complicate exist process , and delay further development offshore , jeopardise those job and that investment . even if it could be do without risk the revenue , that would not automatically lead to more money for the Welsh Government , because any revenue they retain would likely be offset through reduction to the block grant , as be the case in Scotland . meanwhile , Wales would no long benefit from Crown Estate asset and profit in England . there be no long - term vision . Torfaen council have vote unanimously to devolve the Crown Estate to Wales , which mean that every local authority in Wales , include every Labour - run council , support the policy . do the Secretary of State really believe that the UK Labour Government know well than the entirety of Welsh local government ? when Wales speak with one voice , isn ' t it time that Wales ' s voice in the Cabinet say the same thing ? I refer the right hon . Lady to my previous answer . be that the answer ? it be hardly even look at the question . in opposition , the Secretary of State for Wales join Plaid Cymru in condemn the Conservatives for deny Wales £ 4 . 6 billion in rail funding . now in government , she be wax lyrical about 10 % of that , and she be recently content to move the goalpost and deny Wales a furth £ 300 million by classify the Oxford - Cambridge line as benefit Wales . I don ' t know how they make this up . do she oppose that new injustice , or be she ignore ? or be it her mission to see Wales short - change ? I listen carefully to the right hon . Lady ' s question , and I be sure that she would not wish unintentionally to mislead the House . the situation regard the Oxford - Cambridge line be an error make by the Conservative Government in the 2021 spending review , and as she know , heavy rail infrastructure be reserve , not devolve , so for every heavy rail project in England , Barnett consequential do not apply . the UK Government fund that be fund East West Rail be also direct funding project in Wales , such as the redevelopment of Wales ' s busy station , Cardiff Central ; improvement to level crossing in north Wales ; and upgrade to the south Wales relief line . I know that all 27 Welsh Labour mp be look forward to hear what the Chancellor have to say today about rail investment , after all their excellent advocacy on behalf of people across Wales . defence spending : Wales what assessment she have make of the potential impact of increase defence spending on Wales . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the Government ' s increase defence spending on Wales . in the spring statement , the Chancellor announce a £ 2 . 2 billion increase to the defence budget for 2025 - 26 . that will help grow the Welsh economy and our thriving defence sector in Wales , which be home to more than 7 , 000 job , support by the Ministry of Defence and major company such as QinetiQ , BAE Systems , Airbus , General Dynamics and Thales . as part of the strategic defence review , a £ 100 million boost be announce for the repair and renewal of military home in Wales , benefit hundred of service family . I be glad that the Government ' s strategic defence review be launch in Scotland last week , where increase defence spending will create new job and fuel economic growth , despite the SNP ' s refusal to back it . I be similarly pleased that the SDR include hundred of million of pound of investment in force housing in both Wales and Scotland . will the Minister update the House on the positive impact that the review will have in Wales , and across the Union ? I warmly welcome the £ 100 million boost for military home in Wales — part of the £ 7 billion spend to tackle the state of armed force accommodation in this Parliament . that will support urgent repair , such as fix boiler and roof and tackle damp and mould , and facilitate the long - term renewal of military housing for hundred of service family across Wales . that follow our action to bring 36 , 000 home on the defence estate , include more than 700 in Wales , back into public ownership . the strategic defence review will make Wales and the rest of the UK safe at home and strong abroad , just as it will my constituency of Gillingham and Rainham . do the Minister agree that the SDR be further proof that only Labour can be trust to protect our Union , while opposition member wring their hand , wish they do more when they be in power , or look for way to make apology for foreign aggression ? I agree with my hon . friend . the Conservatives fail to deliver a plan for our defence industry , and leave our home for hero in poor condition ; and while Plaid Cymru plot to leave NATO , and reform cosy up to Putin , Labour invest in our military , our security and our veteran . the Minister sound unexpectedly optimistic , give that so many question mark remain over promise and aspiration for defence spending . can she confirm the impact of handing over the Chagos island and billion of pound to Mauritius ? [ interruption . ] can she confirm the impact of that decision on Wales ? I want to focus on the benefit for Wales from the defence budget ; that be what these question be about . this spending will bring the industry more job , and upgrade our military home in Wales . I call Jim Shannon on Wales . I welcome the Government ' s increase spending in Wales . first , it be good for job and opportunity , and secondly , those in uniform , whether in the Army , the Royal Air Force or the Royal Navy , come from all over the United Kingdom — from Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . do the Minister acknowledge that the new spend on defence could be share proportionately between those country , be it on those who serve in uniform , or on company that be involve in the defence sector ? as I be sure the hon . Gentleman know , Northern Ireland benefit considerably from company such as Thales bid into that defence fund . for many year , there have be many excellent service personnel from Northern Ireland . I be sure that he will look after they when they become veteran . I call the shadow Secretary of State . give how precarious global affair be , conservative believe that defence , and defence job , should be a no . 1 priority for the Labour - control Wales Office . major defence company , such as General Dynamics in Merthyr and Caerphilly , and Tekever in Ceredigion , among other , await answer . plaid want to break up the cherished Union , withdraw Wales ' s full membership from NATO and surrender our nuclear defence system . be the Minister seriously concerned about that , and if so , will she rule out her Labour Senedd colleague ever form a coalition with the nationalist in an expand Cardiff Bay ? I be sure I do not need to remind the hon . Lady that defence be a reserved matter . those decision will be take in this UK Parliament , and it be up to the Welsh Senedd how it form a government follow the election next year . union of Great Britain and Northern Ireland : Wales what step she be take to strengthen Wales ' s place in the Union . we have transform the relationship with the Welsh Government , and our two Labour government be deliver on the priority of the people of Wales . together we have deliver a record - break budget settlement for the Welsh Government ; NHS waiting list have fall for four month in a row ; ten of thousand of new job have be secure through inward investment ; and pay rise be help people across Wales , follow the record increase to the national and living wage . Diolch yn fawr . Welsh Labour have be in power in Cardiff Bay for 26 year . in that time , Wales have fall far and far behind its near neighbour in the Union in almost every key devolved area . Welsh household income be low than in England ; Welsh employment rate be low than in England ; and Welsh life expectancy be low than in England . be the Secretary of State proud of her party ' s record in Wales ? actually , the positive impact that our UK and Welsh Labour government be have be clear in how the Welsh economy be change . Employment have increase significantly in Wales , unemployment and economic inactivity have fall , and real total wage have increase right across the UK . the safety and maintenance of coal tip be a totemic issue in Wales , include in my constituency of Cardiff West . the relationship between the Welsh Government and this Labour Government , and the funding for coal tip in the last Budget , signify the importance of the union between our two government . can the Secretary of State tell I why , when give the opportunity to vote on this issue in the Senedd in March , Plaid Cymru vote against coal tip funding ? my hon . friend raise an important point . ensure that coal tip across Wales remain safe be of the utmost importance and , unlike the Conservative Government , we commit £ 25 million of funding this year for essential work to keep tip maintain and safe . quite why Plaid Cymru and the Conservatives vote against that additional funding in the Senedd be beyond I . they need to explain that to our former coalmine community . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Mims Davies . do the Minister prefer peanut , cashew nut or simply scrap for Wales ? the fabled " two Labour Governments in lockstep " be simply a myth for voter . change rail classification and short - change Welsh community be a true reality . be the Minister concern about today ' s report peanut ? when do she become aware of the paltry settlement of just over £ 400 million that be to come to Wales ? how will that be split for the Welsh Government ? how do it compare with our Government ' s £ 740 million for rail alone ? what specific action do she take to argue for a fair share for Wales , and for its place in the Union ? the hon . Lady ' s party , which be in government for 14 year , be in power when Wales get 1 % of the rail enhancement budget , although it have 11 % of the whole UK network . her party be responsible for the historical underfunding of Welsh rail , and we will hear from the Chancellor this afternoon about what this government be go to do about it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the border we share with England be porous , and that be of critical importance to our agricultural community in mid - Wales , and particularly to livestock farmer , whose supply chain reach from one side of the border to the other . the Secretary of State will be aware that the farming community be concern about the outbreak of bluetongue . the Royal Welsh Show have already have to say no to entrant from England . will she meet I and the livestock market affect in my constituency to help find a solution for they ? obviously , the Royal Welsh Show be a landmark event in the calendar in Wales every year . I would be happy to offer the hon . member a meeting with the Minister responsible for farming at the Wales Office . Clean Energy : Wales what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for clean energy project in Wales . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for clean energy project in Wales . the UK Labour Government be put Wales at the forefront of their mission to make the UK a clean energy superpower , create job , lower energy bill and raise living standard for family across Wales . only last month , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State announce £ 12 . 5 million of funding to support green advanced manufacturing and the National Net Zero Centre of Excellence for Skills in Port Talbot . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . Wales have a phenomenal tidal range , which promise green growth and industrial employment to Wales and beyond . the severn estuary commission have complete its recommendation , and tidal lagoon be ready to go . what step be the Secretary of State take with other Cabinet colleague to ensure that tidal play a prominent role in the transition to clean energy ? the Government remain open to well - develop proposal for harness tidal range energy . the National Energy System Operator have launch a research innovation project to model the impact and value of tidal range . I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that we expect the report from that work tomorrow , and will consider its finding . more broadly , Wales have huge potential for green job . in April , the Prime Minister announce a £ 300 million boost for great British Energy to invest in offshore wind supply , and Wales be well place to benefit from that . Wales have an enormous role to play in the roll - out of green and clean energy , which will benefit all the resident of Wales and the UK . what step be the Minister take to roll out this important work in Wales ? Wales have a huge role to play in our clean energy mission and have excellent resource and a skilled workforce . we be support innovative renewable technology , such as the tidal stream on Anglesey and float offshore wind in the Celtic sea , which have the potential to deliver up to 5 , 000 new job . Diolch yn fawr , Mr Llefarydd . green energy deserve green transmission , so will the Minister commit to undergrounde any new electric transmission in Wales ? I commend the hon . member for her campaign on this issue , but as I be sure she understand , the cost of undergrounding be significant . we have say clearly that our position be that overhead line should generally be the starting presumption , except for in nationally designate landscape . People of all age welcome Wales ' s role in make this country a clean energy superpower , but pensioner in particular have to go through last winter freeze cold , and ten of thousand go to A & E . will the Minister , who we all know be a decent Labour Front Bencher , do what the Chancellor refuse to do , and apologise to those pensioner who lose the winter fuel allowance when they need it most ? I should just remind the House that we do maintain the triple lock , which give pensioner a boost of over £ 400 this spring . as the right hon . Gentleman well know , pensioner will again benefit from the winter fuel allowance . employment : Wales what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to create new job in Wales . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to create new job in Wales . since July , we have drive over £ 1 . 5 billion of private investment into Wales , deliver hundred of job . last month , I be delighted to welcome Knauf Insulation ' s new £ 170 million investment in Shotton . our Welsh freeport and investment zone will unlock further private investment and deliver ten of thousand of job across all four corner of Wales . last month , Lloyds Bank report a significant increase in Welsh business confidence , and our industrial strategy will provide further confidence to invest in Wales . this Labour Government be create good , well - pay job across the whole of the UK , include in my Paisley and Renfrewshire South constituency . will the Secretary of State explain what she be do , in collaboration with Cabinet colleague , to ensure that those new job be well pay and have good term and condition ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the Labour Government ' s record of create hundred of thousand of new job across the UK . in Wales , we have two Labour government work together to create new job in our green industry , advanced manufacturing and more . I hope that Scotland also get to experience the benefit of two Labour Governments work in partnership when the Scottish National party be resign to the wilderness at next year ' s election . the multibillion - pound deal to secure a new Universal theme park in Bedfordshire be a major example of the government back our crucial culture sector , create new job and boost living standard for my constituent and the wide region . what be the UK and Welsh Labour Governments do to support the culture sector and create new job in Wales ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . many people in Wales will be look forward to visit the new Universal Studios theme park in her constituency . in Wales , we be support a thriving creative industry sector , which our industrial strategy have rightly identify as provide more potential for huge economic growth in the year ahead . we have confirm £ 10 million to upgrade Venue Cymru in Conwy — the large art centre in Wales outside Cardiff — and £ 5 million to fund repair work to the Newport transporter bridge , both of which play a crucial role in the tourism economy . the Welsh Government be also invest £ 12 million in the Elan valley lake Project through the mid - Wales growth deal . job creation in Wales be vital , so what representation have the Secretary of State make on behalf of business in Wales and the rest of Great Britain , which be be force not to supply business in Northern Ireland any more because of the outrageous and unnecessary parcel border in the irish sea ? what be she do to right the wrong of the ongoing damage of the protocol and the Windsor framework to our Union and our economy ? the hon . Lady will know that the Government ' s no . 1 mission be economic growth . we be create job all across the country , we be build the economy and we have fix the foundation . we will hear more from the Chancellor this afternoon on what will happen in the year ahead . I call the shadow Secretary of State . turbocharge the Welsh economy — and the economy at large , frankly — be vital for social mobility and prosperity . we conservative deliver two Welsh investment zone , two freeport , more than £ 1 billion in extra funding , and we help more than 2 million woman into the job market across the UK . yet the UK and Welsh Labour government be undo that work . their job tax , their tourism tax and the 20 mph default speed limit be a hammer blow to business confidence , particularly in the hospitality sector . disgracefully , the unemployment rate for young woman in Wales be up by 4 . 6 % . will the Secretary of State join I in call for those damaging policy to be drop so that our young woman can get into the workforce and progress ? I say again that the positive impact of the UK and Welsh Labour Governments be clear in how the Welsh economy be change . Employment have increase significantly in Wales , unemployment and economic activity have fall , and real total wage have increase across the UK . Nuclear Power what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on the future of nuclear power in Wales . yesterday we announce the big nuclear building programme in a generation . we be invest £ 14 . 2 billion to build Sizewell C , and we confirm Rolls - Royce SMR as the preferred bidder to build the country ' s small modular reactor . I meet the chair of great British Energy Nuclear last week to discuss how to maximise the opportunity for Wales of new nuclear project , and I will continue to work with the Energy Secretary and the Welsh Government to ensure that Wales ' s supply chain and workforce benefit from that investment . Wales have incredible potential for the next generation of nuclear , but labour ' s announcement yesterday be a fraction of what be need . Green baseload power that stabilise our grid enhance power generation , as it have do before in Anglesey . will the Minister give a clear answer today to confirm that Wales will be a key part of new nuclear , build on conservative work support Welsh nuclear , or will this be another failure to deliver for these community under Labour ? almost all the UK ' s nuclear power station be currently due to come offline in the 2030 . it be this Government who be change that , set out our plan to end the year of Tory failure to invest or deliver on nuclear . we will deliver the big nuclear building programme in a generation . in 14 year , the Conservatives deliver no new nuclear anywhere in the country , include in Wales . do the Secretary of State agree that this Labour Government be commit to deliver energy security , good job and low bill for family across Wales ? my hon . friend will know that the Sizewell C consortium , for example — a group of more than 200 nuclear supply chain company — have a memorandum of understanding with the Welsh Government that will result in an investment of up to £ 900 million in the Welsh nuclear supply chain . great British Energy Nuclear acquire the Wylfa site last year , which previously host a nuclear power plant and be the good potential site in the UK for new nuclear deployment . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I welcome in the Gallery the President and the delegation of the French National Assembly . I also welcome the knighthood give to Sir Billy Boston . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 11 June . Mr Speaker , may I first wish you a happy birthday for yesterday , and say that we be all delighted that Sir Billy Boston — a great british sporting icon — have receive his richly deserve knighthood ? it be long overdue , if I may say so , for he but also for rugby league . this be Carers Week , and I know that the whole House will join I in celebrate the selfless dedication of our unpaid and young carer . this weekend also mark the eighth anniversary of the Grenfell Tower fire . we will honour the 72 man , woman and child who lose their life by deliver meaningful and lasting change — a country with safe and secure home for everyone , where justice be do for the Grenfell community . act alongside our ally , we have sanction individual responsible for incite appal settler violence and expansion . we have do that to uphold human right and defend the prospect of a two - state solution . we will continue to support all effort to secure a ceasefire , the release of all hostage — despicably hold by Hamas — and the humanitarian aid that need to surge in . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . Diolch , Mr Llefarydd . my constituent Mr Michael o ' Leary be brutally murder five year ago , and his body be desecrate . work alongside the hon . member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) and for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) , I have make a number of request to discuss the case of Mr o ' Leary , and those of other victim , with Ministers and to explore introduce legislation to make the desecration of a body a criminal offence . will the Prime Minister meet Mr O ' Leary ' s family and the family of other victim , include April Jones of Machynlleth , Sarah Everard and Helen McCourt , to hear why they be call for the introduction of a new criminal offence of desecrate a body ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this horrific case and the other , similar case . my thought — and , I be sure , the thought of the whole House — be with Michael ' s family and all those affect by such vile crime . I think we all need to listen to what they have to say . I know that she have be work with my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) on this issue , and I pay tribute to she and to all those who be work so hard on the issue . I be sure that the Justice Minister will be in touch at the first opportunity to take this forward . I thank the hon . Lady again for raise a really important issue . in Gloucestershire , after 14 year , waiting list for both physical and mental health be finally fall . last week I host a roundtable with young people and hear how music and art programme , such as Gloucester ' s fantastic Music Works , be transform mental health outcome . I also chair a Comedy - on - prescription panel at South by Southwest with Lu Jackson and Jonathan Pie , utilise laughter to improve wellbee and reduce waiting list . can I ask the Prime Minister to back our campaign for creative health , and urge he to go far in reduce waiting list for all patient ? my hon . friend have great expertise , have work for many year in the NHS as a gp , and I support the work he be do . as he have point out , our plan for change have cut waiting list in his local trust by almost 5 , 000 , and we be go far , include through state - of - the - art radiotherapy machine roll out across the country . there be one go into my hon . friend ' s constituency , and more scanner be go to 27 other hospital trust , include two hospital in the constituency of the Leader of the Opposition . this be all make possible by the decision we have make , and I know that the Leader of the Opposition will want to stand up and welcome that . I call the Leader of the Opposition . perhaps the Prime Minister know something I do not , because there be only one hospital in my constituency . since Labour take office , inflation have nearly double , growth have halve and unemployment have surge . be this what the Prime Minister mean when he tweet that " the economy be improve " ? since the general election , 500 , 000 more people be in work . I know that the right hon . Lady do not mention that — she be fixate on talk Britain down . we be invest in the future . even in the last two week , we have have the strategic defence review , with 30 , 000 new job build submarine . yesterday we have the Sizewell announcement , which will create 10 , 000 new job , and there will be ten of thousand of construction job build the social and affordable housing that be announce this morning . that be the difference that Labour make in government . the Prime Minister must be talk about a different economy . all of we in this House hear about unemployment increase — unemployment have increase every month since Labour take office . last year , the Prime Minister say that he be take the winter fuel payment away to balance the book , but the book be not balanced ; in fact , they be bad . this year , the deficit be forecast to be £ 10 billion high since the Budget — not since last year ' s election , but since the Budget . in what way be the book now balanced ? the right hon . Lady have obviously miss the interest rate cut , the growth figure for early this year , the strategic defence review , £ 15 billion go into local transport , free school meal , Sizewell and social housing . she stand at the Dispatch Box to lecture we , and I see that Liz Truss be obviously back in vogue , advise Reform officially now and haunt the Tories . I remind the Leader of the Opposition that the shadow Home Secretary , who I think be then Chief Secretary to the Treasury , give the Liz Truss Budget 9 . 5 out of 10 . the Leader of the Opposition say that what be wrong with Liz Truss ' s Budget be not necessarily the package — that be all right — but the way it be sell . the Tories have learn absolutely nothing . the Prime Minister love talk about Liz Truss . why ? because he want to hide from his own economic record . he be a coward . every time he stand at the Dispatch Box and talk about Liz Truss , it be because he be scared of talk about his record and what be happen to the economy out there . let we bring the Prime Minister back to the u - turn that he be run away from — a u - turn on a policy that his mps go out defend time and again . let we go through what be happen here . one minute , they say that it be right to take the winter fuel payment away , because there might be a run on the pound ; the next minute , they say it be right to give it back . this be laughable . the Prime Minister stand there , all puff up and self - righteous . why can he not just admit that he make a mistake ? the Conservatives leave a £ 22 billion black hole that we have to fill , and that be why we take the right decision . we have stabilise the economy , which be why we have see four interest rate cut . we have commit to the triple lock , which the opposition say be unsustainable — that is £ 470 for most pensioner — and we have have good quarter 1 growth . three week ago , I say that I want more pensioner to be eligible for the winter fuel payment . I be really pleased that we set out the threshold and the certainty that be need . the right hon . Lady say that I do not want to talk about our record , but what about three trade deal , record investment , free school meal , breakfast club , social and affordable housing , the defence review , Sizewell — we could go on all morning , but the Chancellor will say even more in a minute . at the weekend , the right hon . Lady say that she would be get well in the role . she could start by apologise for the Liz Truss Budget ; that would be well . I get well every week ; the Prime Minister get bad . last week — [ interruption . ] order . I say to the Member shout that if you think that be a good look , let I tell you that it be a very bad look . think twice before you try to shout somebody down in that way . I call Kemi Badenoch . last week , the Prime Minister have to get his line from the russian embassy . I think we all know that he be get bad , and what he do not want to talk about be how he be go to make the economy well . that be what the people out there want to hear , and he have get no answer . his trade deal have unravel . with the strategic defence review , everyone out there be ask where the money be come from . the fact be that he do not know how to balance the book . the Chancellor say that the winter fuel payment u - turn will not be fund through high borrowing , so will the Prime Minister admit that it will be fund by put everybody ' s taxis up ? I think the right hon . Lady let slip on the Matt Forde programme the other day that she rehearse her fury for pmq , so there be a very good rehearsal this morning , I think . she ask what we be do . at the Budget , we put record investment in our NHS and our public service . she come every week to carp on about national insurance , but she do not stand there with the courage of her conviction and say that she will actually reverse it . the reason she will not be because she will not stand up and say she be against the investment in the NHS . she will not stand up and say she be against the investment in our public service . we will all listen very carefully in just 20 minute , when the Chancellor lay out more record investment , as to whether the Conservatives welcome it or whether they say they would not support it . every week I come here to tell the Prime Minister the truth . the truth be that the economy be in a spiral because labour — all of they — put up taxis , which cut growth . we all hear the Prime Minister . he do not rule out tax rise , so the Government be go to have to put up taxis even more . this be a spiral . if that be not bad enough , this morning we hear that because of his terrible Chagos deal , Mauritius be scrap income tax . why on earth should the british taxpayer pay £ 30 billion for tax cut in Mauritius ? Diego Garcia be a vital intelligence and strategic capability , and it be absolutely clear that legal uncertainty would compromise it in very short order — that be why the Conservatives start the negotiation in relation to it — and no responsible Prime Minister would let that happen . we have secure the base for the long term . that have be welcome by our ally — by the US , by NATO , and by Australia , New Zealand and India . it have be oppose by our adversary — by Russia , China and Iran . in the second column , we add reform follow Putin , and the Tories follow Reform . the Prime Minister know this have nothing to do with national security ; it be his bad negotiating . I have have the security briefing ; it be a bad deal before , and it be still a bad deal . in half an hour , the Chancellor be go to stand up and tell we that everything be fine , but the truth be that she have make bad choice — bad choice that mean high inflation , bad choice that have lead to low growth , and bad choice that have mean that job have be lose every single month since Labour come into office . that be hundred of thousand of family who have lose their income in Stoke , Grangemouth and Luton . those be their constituency and business across the country . the Chancellor have lose all her headroom . she have fall out with the Cabinet . she be make unfunded spending commitment , which she promise not to do . be the truth not that we have get the wrong Chancellor and the wrong priority ? the wrong choice that they make be make the right hon . Lady the Leader of the Opposition . belate birthday greeting to you , Mr Speaker . it be wrong for any Labour Government to try to balance the book on the back of disabled people , and no Labour Government should ever do it , but it be what the Prime Minister will ask the House to do in just a few week ' time . many of we will not be able to go along with that , because it will mean that people who need assistance to cut up their food , to wash themselves , to dress themselves and to go to the toilet will lose the personal independence payment that they currently receive — they will lose that vital support . this week , the Prime Minister change direction on winter fuel payment . will he do the same in relation to this matter , and drop these disability benefit cut ? it be very important that we make the change to our welfare system . it be not work , and it need reform . I think everyone agree with that . it do not work for anyone . we will do this on a principled basis , namely that those who can work should work , that those who want to work should be support so that they can do so , and that we must protect those with the most severe disability who will never be able to work — and we be do that by end reassessment and pay a new premium . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . let I join other in wish you a belate many happy return for yesterday , Mr Speaker . let I also welcome the Government ' s sanction on two Ministers in the Netanyahu Government , Ben - Gvir and Smotrich . the settler violence that they have incite against innocent Palestinians on the west bank be intolerable , and the Government be right to act . as it be Carers Week , may I pay tribute to the million of unpaid family carer across the country , recognise the challenge that they face ? the last Conservative Government leave our health service on its knee . we have hear report that the NHS will receive extra funding in the spending review , and if it do , we will support that , but do the Prime Minister agree that no amount of money for the NHS will solve its crisis unless we also invest to fix care ? without pre - empte the Chancellor ' s statement , will he reassure I that both social care and family carer will be give the priority they deserve in the spending review ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that the health crisis create by the previous Government can not be — [ interruption . ] opposition Members groan , but that be exactly how the country feel about the last 14 year and the mess that they make of everything . yes , we do need to fix social care as well as put money into the NHS . we be put record amount into the NHS , which be the right thing to do , and we be see the result . we promise 2 million extra appointment in the first year of a Labour Government , and we have deliver 3 million . so there will be that extra funding , but let I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that while he welcome all the extra funding , he can not at the same time simply say that he be against any way of raise the money for the funding . there be an incompatibility there . the Prime Minister know that he have a fair and well way of fund NHS investment , and I regret the fact that he do not answer my question about care , but let we move on . the Prime Minister be right to increase defence spending , and later we will hear about the difficult choice that the Chancellor have have to make partly to fund that defence expenditure , but there be freeze russian asset worth £ 25 billion in the UK right now — billion that could be use to stop Putin ' s war machine and to boost Britain ' s defence industry even fast . at the G7 summit this weekend , will the Prime Minister seek an agreement to seize those frozen russian state asset and use they to support Ukraine ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , that be an issue that be be consider , but it be complicated and there be a great many countervail factor that need to be carefully balance in any decision . we be talk to ally about it , but I do not want to pretend to the House that there be an easy answer on this , because there be not . More job , cheap bill : that be our promise on net zero . if we can not meet those goal , we must consider our approach . in Pembrokeshire we have a proud industrial history root in oil and gas , and an incredibly exciting opportunity in respect of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . can the Prime Minister assure I that he be committed to a just transition that protect and create job ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this . I believe this Government must seize the opportunity of net zero for work people , create good , skilled job and take they off the rollercoaster of volatile fossil - fuel market . under past government , hard - work community have their pride and their job rip away , and we will never do that in relation to a transition . we have already see £ 40 billion of investment in energy and renewable , and the CBI datum show that 38 , 000 job in Wales be link to clean energy . I want to see more of that ; both the Conservatives and Reform be against it . with your indulgence , Mr Speaker , I will briefly pay tribute to the Police Service of Northern Ireland for tackle the public disorder in Northern Ireland over the last two night , with over 30 police officer injure . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in that , and in condemn the racist violence . whether it be the cardiac scandal at the Royal Victoria hospital in Belfast , the cervical smear scandal at the southern trust , the covid bereaved family or the crash of Chinook ZD576 , all of which have impact my constituent in Lagan Valley , the common thread here be that family simply want the truth , but they be let down by institution at every cut and turn . will this Government urgently introduce a duty of candour Bill , and ensure that it reflect what the " Hillsborough Law now " campaigner and family have fight so very hard for ? may I start with the important point that the hon . Lady make about Ballymena ? I utterly condemn the violence that we see overnight in Ballymena and other part of Northern Ireland , include against PSNI officer . it be absolutely vital that the psni be give the time it need to investigate the incident concern , rather than face mindless attack as it seek to bring peace and order to keep people safe . the Northern Ireland Secretary be in touch with the PSNI and the Executive , and I be be keep update in relation to that . in relation to the tragic case that the hon . Lady mention , I thank she for raise they . it be important that we have a legal duty of candour and we will be introduce that , because , as she say , there must be the truth here , base on all people be deal with on the basis of dignity , fairness and accountability . in the word of the former israeli Prime Minister , what we be witness in Gaza be the " indiscriminate , limitless , cruel and criminal killing of civilian . " More than 50 , 000 people have be kill , and child have be shoot while queue for bread . a grow number of genocide scholar , include lead israeli academic , believe that a genocide be take place . under international law , we have a duty to prevent genocide . I serve on the UN mission in Kosovo . we act to stop mass kill there . what be the difference now ? will the Prime Minister please intervene immediately to alleviate human suffering , and take step to recognise the state of Palestine ? my hon . friend will have see the statement we make yesterday and the action that we be take with ally . the humanitarian situation be dreadful and distressing , and the scene that we have witness outside aid distribution centre be frankly heartbreaking . More aid into Gaza be need at volume and speed , and Israel ' s plan for aid delivery be inadequate and insufficient . what be need be for the UN and other agency to deliver that aid accord to well - establish mechanism , and Israel must allow this . we be work with ally to do all that we can to make this happen , as well as to get the hostage out — they have be hold for a very long time — and a desperately need return to a ceasefire . there be significant concern regard the potential job loss at Spirit AeroSystems that stem from the deal with Airbus . will the Prime Minister intervene to bring all the main player — the union , the Business Secretary and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland — around the table to ensure that these job be protect , especially consider that the scale of the issue be akin to the challenge face by British Steel ? there be also an issue for Northern Ireland business with the outworking of the Northern Ireland protocol and the Windsor framework . can the Prime Minister give I reassurance that he be work to resolve all those issue ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise this important case of Spirit AeroSystems in Northern Ireland . I know how important it be for the workforce ; I have visit they myself on more than one occasion . Airbus ' s decision to expand UK operation be good news for the sector and testament to world - class manufacturing expertise , and I want to see those high - skilled job protect . the Northern Ireland Secretary have meet Airbus , the trade union and Assembly representative to discuss the good outcome . the Minister for Industry be continue engagement with stakeholder , and we will do everything we can in relation to this situation . I be grateful to he for raise it . will the Prime Minister join I in condemn decision take by the Transport Minister of the previous Government , who turn their back on promise to deliver a new train station at Beam Park , which derail growth in my constituency of Dagenham and Rainham ? will he also agree that the grampian condition on the Beam Park development must be honour , and that infrastructure must accompany all development of scale as we get on with the job of deliver million of new home ? I know my hon . friend have be fight hard for this project for year , and she be right that the previous Government fail to deliver . you could say that about anything they touch , Mr Speaker . the Rail Minister be work with the Mayor and the Housing Minister to get an appropriate solution to unlock housing in the area . we will also bring c2c back into public ownership , improve reliability and performance , and ensure every penny be focus on well service . it be a disaster . I imagine when the right hon . Member say " disaster " , he be refer to the last Government . I have speak to parent of child with special educational need and disability who be not get the support they need in school , but if , as a result , their child be out of school , they be leave face prosecution , fine or even prison time . punish parent for the failing of a broken system be outrageous , so will the Prime Minister end this by back Lords amendment 349a to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , and will he meet I to discuss this far ? I thank the hon . member for raise this . the epidemic of absence in our school really do worry I . thank to the effort of school and parent across the country , we have see over 3 million more day in school this year compare with last , which be really important , but we do know that pupil with special educational need face more complex barrier in relation to school attendance . we will of course look at all amendment in the usual way , but in this instance I do think we have strike the right balance . may I start by congratulate Sir Billy Boston ? Billy end his career playing at Blackpool , and I know this have be a long campaign by the Culture Secretary , the Speaker , my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) and many in this House — congratulation to Sir Billy . it have be expose by Shelter that 12 , 000 people be wait for council housing in Blackpool . this be a damn indictment of the legacy of the 14 year of the previous Government . hundred of family in my constituency be wait for housing , stick in a bed and breakfast or , like my constituent kaci with her two child in tow , be sofa surf . so will the Prime Minister , alongside the Deputy Prime Minister , commit to a new generation of social housing and council housing in my constituency , and help I build a well Blackpool ? I join my hon . friend on his comment about Billy Boston , and I think the whole House will , Mr Speaker . we be turn the tide on the housing crisis , with the big investment in social and affordable housing in a generation . the Chancellor be invest £ 39 billion over the next 10 year — almost double what we see under the last government — and it be no wonder the National Housing Federation welcome this as transformative , say it offer " real hope " to the thousand who need safe , secure and affordable home . it be National Diabetes Week , and as someone live with type 1 , as we both be , Mr Speaker , I be more than aware of the serious complication of diabetic ketoacidosis — dka — which can prove fatal if not catch early enough . a quarter of child be diagnose with type 1 diabete when in DKA , and that could be avoid with early diagnosis . will the Prime Minister commit to roll out a national universal screening programme , as see in Italy , for type 1 ? I thank the hon . member for champion this really important issue . my late mother have diabete , so I know at first hand just what a struggle it can be and how important this be . type 1 diabetes be not preventable , as she know , but the soon we can reach people , the soon we can care for they . we have a screening programme in the UK available to family across the country , and over 20 , 000 child have already take part . it be really important that we continue to deliver that , but I thank she for continue to champion this and to raise her voice on this very important issue . [ Official Report , 2 July 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 3WC . ] ( Correction ) it be crystal clear how social medium and smartphone be harm our young people , with cyber - bullying , addiction and exploitation rife . government elsewhere be take bold action . I understand that minister be consider a two - hour limit , but that be per app rather than per day . I know the Prime Minister take this seriously , so can he update the House on what he want to see happen and what action this Government will take to protect our child ? it be important that we take action to protect our child . from July , tough new rule will mean platform must protect child in the UK from see harmful and violent content . we do need to look at what other measure be need to create safe online experience for young people and we will not hesitate to take further step . concern new statistic show that delay in cancer treatment in North Norfolk be great than the national average . much of this relate to the struggle we face specifically as an old rural constituency . I be elect on a promise to get our NHS back and fight fit after the criminal damage inflict on it by the Conservatives . do the Prime Minister recognise that rural health service face acute and specific challenge ? will he give his word to the people of North Norfolk that the reform and spending we need will come forward to address they ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this really important issue for his constituent . I think it do impact rural area in particular . we have set out record funding for the NHS . we have our cancer plan , and I can give he that reassurance . the Prime Minister and Members across the House will have witness the spectacular victory for Davy Russell and Scottish Labour at the Hamilton , Larkhall and Stonehouse by - election . my constituent be sick of SNP failure and they vote for change : change for their NHS , for their school and for Scotland . have the Prime Minister see the call from within the SNP for John Swinney to resign ? do he agree with I that a leader who have only ever lose election to the Labour party should stay put ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the role that she and other play in see Davy Russell elect . he will be a dedicated champion for his and her constituent . after nearly two decade in power , the SNP get its verdict last Thursday : Scotland want change . People know that the SNP be completely out of idea . that be why they want a Labour Government to deliver real change . Spending Review 2025 my driving purpose since I become Chancellor be to make work people in all part of our country well off , to rebuild our school and our hospital , and to invest in our economy so that everyone have the opportunity to succeed after 14 year of mismanagement and decline by the party opposite , culminate in a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . that be the Conservatives ' legacy , and the first job I face as Chancellor be to set it right . so at the Budget last October and again in the spring , I make the choice necessary to fix the foundation of our economy . we waste no time in remove the barrier to growth : the big overhaul of our planning system in a generation ; launch Britain ' s first National Wealth Fund ; and reform our pension system to unlock billion of pound of investment into our economy . we be start to see the result . the stability we have provide have help support four cut in interest rate , save hundred of pound a year for family with a mortgage . real wage have grow by more in the first 10 month of this Labour Government than in the first 10 year of the Conservative Government . and the late figure show that we be the fast grow economy in the G7 . country around the world be line up to do business with Britain again , with new trade deal with India , the United States and the European Union . we be renew Britain , but I know that too many people in too many part of our country be yet to feel it . this government ' s task , my task as Chancellor , and the purpose of this spending review be to change that — to ensure that renewal be feel in people ' s everyday life , in their job , and on their high street . the priority of this spending review be the priority of work people : to invest in Britain ' s security and Britain ' s health and to grow Britain ' s economy so that work people be well off . today , I be allocate the envelope I set out in the spring . I be enormously grateful to my excellent team of official at the Treasury and to my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his tireless work throughout this process , crunch the number and look at the asset and liability . on that note , I thank all my Cabinet colleague for their contribution to this process — they be all asset to this Labour Government . in this spending review , total departmental budget will grow by 2 . 3 % a year in real term . compare that to the Conservatives ’ choice of austerity . in contrast to our increase of 2 . 3 % , they cut spending by 2 . 9 % a year in 2010 . let we be clear : austerity be a destructive choice for both the fabric of our society and our economy , choke off investment and demand and create a lost decade for growth , wage and living standard . that be their legacy . my choice be different . my choice be Labour choice — the choice in this spending review that be possible only because of my commitment to economic stability and the decision this Government have make . the Conservatives ' fiscal rule guarantee neither stability nor investment , and that be why I change they . my fiscal rule be non - negotiable , and they be the foundation for stability and investment . my first rule be for stability : day - to - day Government spending should be pay for through tax receipt . that be the sound economic choice . it also the fair choice , because it be not right to expect our child and future generation to pay for the service we rely on today . this first rule allow I , as I set out in the Budget , to allocate £ 190 billion more to the day - to - day run of our public service over the course of this spending review compare with the previous Government ' s plan . my second fiscal rule enable I to invest in Britain ' s economic renewal while get public debt on a downward path . this rule allow I to increase public investment by more than £ 100 billion in the autumn and a furth £ 13 billion in the spring . that be investment to rebuild our transport network , our defence capability and our energy security — in short , to grow our economy . I have make my choice : tough decision for stability and change Britain ' s fiscal rule for investment . today , I be deliver that investment for the renewal of Britain . now , it be time for the party opposite to make their choice . the spending plan I be set out today be possible only because of the decision I take in the autumn to raise taxis and the change to our fiscal rule , every one of which be oppose by the party opposite . today , they can make an honest choice and oppose these spending plan as they oppose every penny I raise to fund they , or they can make the same choice as Liz Truss : spend more and borrow more , with no regard for the consequence . in their clamour to cut taxis for the rich , the Conservatives crash our economy , send mortgage rate spiral and put our pension in peril . I will never take those risk . yet Reform be itch to do the same thing all over again . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) may be play the friend of the worker now , but some of we be old enough to remember when he describe the disastrous Liz Truss Budget as " the good Conservative Budget " since the 1980 . [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker , after the damage be do , he still nod along . reform have learn nothing . his party have be in Parliament for less than a year , yet it have already rack up £ 80 billion of unfunded commitment . reform be simply not serious . every day it become clear that it be Labour — and only Labour — that have a credible plan for the renewal of Britain . as I say in my spring statement , the world be change before our eye . since the spring , the challenge that we face have become even more acute . the sign of our age of insecurity be everywhere , so we be act on the promise in our plan for change : building renewal on the foundation of national security , border security and economic security . as the Prime Minister say early this month , " a new era in the threat that we face demand a new era for defence and security . " that be why we take the decision to prioritise our defence spending by reduce overseas development aid . defence spending will now rise to 2 . 6 % of gdp by April 2027 , include the contribution of our intelligence agency . that uplift provide funding for my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary , with an £ 11 billion increase in defence spending and a £ 600 million uplift for our security and intelligence agency . that investment will deliver not only security , but renewal in Aldermaston and Lincoln ; in Portsmouth and Filton ; on the Clyde and in Rosyth . investment in Scotland , job in Scotland , and defence for the United Kingdom — oppose by the Scottish National party ; deliver by this Labour Government . invest in our armed force , our military technology and our supply chain also bring huge opportunity : £ 4 . 5 billion of investment in munition , make in factory from Glasgow to Glascoed , Stevenage to Radway Green ; and over £ 6 billion to upgrade our nuclear submarine production , support thousand of job across Barrow , Derby and Sheffield . we will make Britain a defence industrial superpower , with the job , the skill and the pride that come with that . a more unstable world present new challenge at our border too . conflict have open the way for organise criminal gang . the british people rightly expect we to have control of who come into our country . the Conservatives say that they would " take back control " . well , Mr Speaker , they lose control . with one fail policy after another , there be no control and no security . in contrast , in the Budget last year I announce £ 150 million to establish the new Border Security Command , and today , to support the integrity of our border , I can announce that that funding will increase , with up to £ 280 million more per year by the end of the spending review period for our new Border Security Command . alongside that , we be tackle the asylum backlog . the conservative party leave behind a broken system : billion of pound of taxpayer ' money spend on housing asylum seeker in hotel , leave people in limbo and shunt the cost of failure on to local community . we will not let that stand . I can confirm today that , lead by the work of my right hon . friend the Home Secretary , we will be end the costly use of hotel to house asylum seeker in this Parliament . funding that I have provide today , include from the transformation fund , will cut the asylum backlog ; allow more appeal case to be hear ; and return people who have no right to be here , save the taxpayer £ 1 billion per year . that be my choice , that be Labour ' s choice , that be the choice of the british people . if we want national security in a dangerous world , that do not stop at the strength of our armed force or at our border . I have long speak about what I call " securonomic " — the basic insight that , in an age of insecurity , Government must step up to provide security for work people and resilience for our national economy . put simply : where thing be make , and who make they , matter . take energy : the Tories neglect our nuclear and renewable sector and close our gas storage facility , leave we expose to hike in energy price when Russia invade Ukraine , and it be work people who pay the price for their mistake . labour understand that energy security be national security . because it be the right choice for bill , job and growth , this Government be invest in the big roll - out of nuclear power for half a century , with a £ 30 billion commitment to our nuclear - power future . yesterday my right hon . friend the Energy Secretary and I announce £ 14 billion for Sizewell C , which will produce energy to power 6 million home and support more than 10 , 000 job , include 1 , 500 apprenticeship , in order to build the nuclear workforce of tomorrow . that be not all . we be invest over £ 2 . 5 billion in a new small modular reactor programme . our preferred partner be Rolls - Royce — a great british company base in Derby . this investment be just one step towards our ambition for a full fleet of small modular reactor , and it provide a route for private sector - lead advanced modular reactor project to be deploy across the UK . alongside these action , we be make nuclear - approve land available in Sellafield to attract private investment and create thousand more job . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) for his work in this area . to strengthen Britain ' s position at the forefront of a global race for new nuclear technology — a cause champion by Mayor of the East Midlands Claire Ward and my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) — and to support pioneer work take place in West Burton in Nottinghamshire , we be invest over £ 2 . 5 billion in our nuclear future . to back british industry , pioneer work in carbon capture , usage and storage will take place . last year we announce funding for two site , one on Merseyside and one in Teesside , where we be build the world ' s first commercial - scale ccus plant . today I can announce support for the Acorn project in Aberdeenshire to support Scotland ' s transition from oil and gas to low - carbon technology — a challenge and an opportunity well understand by the leader of Scottish Labour Anas Sarwar and my right hon . friend the Scotland Secretary . we be also back the viking project in Humberside — a cause long support by my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) . because I be determined to ensure that the energy technology of the future be build here and own here and that job come to Britain , this spending review invest in the wholly publicly own great British Energy , headquarter in Scotland . these investment will ensure that the town and city that power the last industrial revolution play their part in our next industrial revolution . reduce our reliance on overseas oil and gas , protect work family from price shock , and a new generation of energy industry for a renew Britain — that be my choice , that be Labour ' s choice , that be the choice of the british people . economic security rely on our ability to buy , make and sell more here in Britain . in April , this Government face a choice : to let British Steel in Scunthorpe go under or to intervene . [ interruption . ] that choice be a choice not of the metal trader but of this Labour Government . we hear representation from worker , trade union and my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) . my right hon . friend the Business Secretary and I be not prepared to tolerate a situation in which Britain ' s steel capacity be fatally undermine . we be not prepared to see another work - class community lose the pride , prosperity and dignity that industry provide , so we do intervene to save British Steel and the job that come with it , and I be proud of that decision . the Government will invest in Scunthorpe ' s long - term future and the future of steelwork across our great country . in a vote of confidence in our home - grow steel , Heathrow airport , where we be back London by back a third runway , have sign the UK steel charter — a multibillion - pound airport expansion back by Labour and build with british steel . build our train and tram line , our military hardware and our new power station will mean order for steel make in Britain at Sheffield Forgemasters , where we be invest in nuclear - grade steel , and in Port Talbot , where the spending review confirm the £ 500 million grant to Tata Steel . a future for British - make steel and a proud future for Britain ' s steel community . thing build to last , build here in Britain — that be my choice , that be Labour ' s choice , that be the choice of the british people . this Labour Government be back british business . there will be more to come in the week ahead with our 10 - year infrastructure strategy and our modern industrial strategy : a plan draw up in partnership with business and trade union . when I speak to businesspeople and entrepreneur about what they need to succeed , they say that they need the chance to innovate , they need access to finance and they need a deep pool of talent . we have hear that message , and today we be take action . first , on innovation , which be a great british strength . our university be world - lead , and we be proud of they . we want our high - tech industry in Britain to continue to lead the world in year to come in car production , in aerospace and in life science , so we be back our innovator , back our researcher and back our entrepreneur with research and development funding rise to a record high of £ 22 billion a year by the end of the spending review . because home - grow artificial intelligence have the potential to solve diverse and daunting challenge , as well as the opportunity for good job and investment here in Britain , I be announce £ 2 billion to back the Government ' s AI action plan oversee by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . secondly , to champion those small business seek access to finance as they look to grow , I be increase the financial firepower of the British Business Bank with a two third increase in its investment , increase its overall financial capacity to £ 25 . 6 billion to help pioneer business to start up and scale up , back Britain ' s entrepreneur and back Britain ' s wealth creator . thirdly , as we invest , if we be to thrive in the industry of the future , we must give our young people the skill they need to contribute to our national success as scientist , engineer and designer , and as builder , welder and electrician . I know the ambition , the drive and the potential of our young people ; it can not be right that too often those ambition and that potential be stifle . young people who want training find course be oversubscribed and be turn away at the door , force grow business , eager to recruit that talent , to look elsewhere — potential waste and enterprise frustrated . so today I be provide record investment for training and upskille with £ 1 . 2 billion a year by the end of the spending review to support over a million young people into training and apprenticeship so that their potential , their drive and their ambition be frustrate no long . on the subject of skill , we should all recognise the Leader of the Opposition ' s own commitment to lifelong learning . at the weekend , she promise to learn and " get well " on the job . I be sure that Opposition Members will be support she in that endeavour . good luck with that . as we build a strong , secure and resilient economy , work people must feel the benefit . that start with the security of a proper home . our planning reform have open up the opportunity to build . now , we must act to make the most of those opportunity , and a plan to match the scale of the housing crisis must include social housing , which have be neglect for too many decade , but not by this Labour Government . so , lead by my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister , we be take action . I be proud to announce the big cash injection into social and affordable housing in 50 year with a new affordable home programme in which I be invest £ 39 billion over the next decade — direct Government funding that will support house building , especially for social rent . I be pleased to report that town and city include Blackpool , Preston , Sheffield and Swindon already have plan to bring forward bid to build those home in their community . I have go far . last autumn , I enable great use of financial transaction to support investment in our infrastructure alongside strict guardrail that ensure that money be spend wisely through our public financial institution . so , in line with that commitment , I be provide an additional £ 10 billion for financial investment , include to be deliver through Homes England , to crowd in private investment and unlock hundred of thousand more home . home build by a Labour Government ; home build for work people . but it be no good investing in new skill , new job and new home if they be not properly connect . that be why last week , with the support of my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary , I announce £ 15 billion of investment to connect our city and our town — the big ever investment of its kind — with investment in bus in Rochdale , train station in Merseyside and Middlesbrough , mass transit in West Yorkshire and metro extension in Birmingham , Tyne and Wear and Stockport . alongside that , we be back Doncaster airport . today , I be announce a four - year settlement for Transport for London to provide certainty and stability for our large local transport network to plan for the future . for other region in the UK , I be today provide for a fourfold increase in local transport grant by the end of this Parliament to make the improvement put off for far too long , to improve the journey that people make every day . to unlock the potential of all part of Britain , we be go far by invest in major rail project to connect our town and city . in October , I announce funding for the trans - Pennine route upgrade — the backbone of rail travel in the north , link York , Leeds and Manchester — with a quarter of that route expect to be electrify by this summer . I know the commitment of my hon . friend the Members for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) , for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) and for Colne Valley ( Paul Davies ) to this issue , and today I can announce a furth £ 3 . 5 billion of investment for that route . but my ambition , and the ambition of people across the north , be great still , so in the come week I will set out the Government ' s plan to take forward our ambition for Northern Powerhouse Rail . I have also hear the representation of my hon . friend the Members for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) , and for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) , and I can tell the House today that to connect Oxford and Cambridge and to back Milton Keynes ' s lead tech sector I be provide a furth £ 2 . 5 billion for the continue delivery of East West Rail . on a matter that I know be of great importance to my hon . friend the Members for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) , for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) and for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , I can announce today that I be provide funding for the midland rail hub : the region ' s big and most ambitious rail improvement scheme for generation , strengthen connection from Birmingham across the west midland and into Wales , too . for 14 year , the Conservatives fail the people of Wales . those day be over . follow representation from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Wales , the First Minister of Wales , and Welsh Labour MPs , today I be pleased to announce £ 445 million for railway in Wales over 10 year , include new funding for Padeswood siding and Cardiff West junction . that be the difference make by two Labour Governments , work together to undo a generation of underfunding and neglect . this government take seriously their commitment to investment , job and growth in every part of the UK . I have hear the concern of my hon . friend the Members for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , and for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) , and the Mayor of the Liverpool City Region , Steve Rotheram , that past government have under - invest in town and city outside London and the south - east . they be right , so today I be publish the conclusion of the review of the Treasury Green Book , which be the Government ' s manual for assess value for money . our new Green Book will support place - base business case , and make sure that no region have Treasury guidance wield against it . I say that we would do thing differently , and that we want growth in all part of Britain , and I mean it . back our nation and region mean back our devolved government , and this spending review provide the large settlement in real term since devolution be introduce , with £ 52 billion for Scotland , £ 20 billion for Northern Ireland by the end of the spending review period , and £ 23 billion for Wales . have hear representation from many Welsh Labour colleague , and because I know the obligation that we owe to our industrial community , I be provide a multi - year settlement of £ 118 million to keep coal tip safe in Wales . I know what pride people feel in their community — I see it everywhere I go — but I also know that , for too many people , there be a sense that something have be lose as high street have decline , community space have close , and job and opportunity have go elsewhere . the renewal of Britain must be feel everywhere . today I be pleased to announce additional funding to support up to 350 community , especially those in the most deprived area — funding to improve park , youth facility , swimming pool and library , and to support council in fight back against graffiti and fly - tipping , include in Blackpool South , Stockport , Stoke - on - Trent Central , Swindon North , and Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend . and there be more . job creation and community asset be vital to our growth mission , but too often , regeneration project be hold back , gather dust in bureaucratic limbo . we be change that . we will establish a growth mission fund to expedite local project that be important for growth — project such as Southport pier , an iconic symbol of coastal heritage that have stand empty since 2022 ; Kirkcaldy ' s seafront and high street , where investment would create job and new business opportunity ; and plan for Peterborough ' s new sport quarter , to drive activity and community cohesion . People deserve a Government who share their ambition for their community , and who deliver renewal , growth , and opportunity , and that be what you get with a Labour Government . if people be to feel pride in their community , enjoy their public space , and spend time on their high street , they must feel safe when they do so — safe in the knowledge that when people break the law , they feel the full force of the law . the conservative party leave our prison overflow and on the brink of collapse , and leave it to we to deal with the consequence . we be take the necessary action , so my right hon . friend the Justice Secretary and I have announce that we be invest £ 7 billion to fund 14 , 000 new prison place , and put up to £ 700 million per year into reform of the probation system . today , I will do more . I be increase police spending power by an average 2 . 3 % per year in real term over the spending review period , to protect our people , our home and our street . that be more than £ 2 billion , support we to meet our plan for change commitment of put 13 , 000 additional police officer , police community support officer and special constable into neighbourhood policing role across England and Wales . I be determined that every family , as well as every place , should feel the benefit of Britain ' s renewal . fall interest rate , support by our commitment to economic stability , be already save many family hundred of pound a month on their mortgage . I have accept pay review body recommendation for our armed force , nurse , teacher and prison officer , give public sector worker the fair pay rise that they deserve . in autumn , I increase the national living wage — a pay rise for around 3 million hard - work people . this government be do more : we be ban exploitative zero - hour contract , strengthen statutory sick pay , and end the use of unscrupulous fire - and - rehire practice . those be my choice ; those be labour choice . I know that for many people the cost of living remain a constant challenge . that be why we be cap the cost of school uniform . I can tell the House today that I be extend the £ 3 bus fare cap until at least March 2027 . early this week , we announce that over three quarter of pensioner will receive the winter fuel payment this year . and there be more : to get bill down , not just this winter but in winter to come , we have expand the warm home plan to support thousand more of the UK ' s poor household . that include provide £ 7 million to home in Bradford , £ 11 million to home in Rugby , and £ 30 million to home in Blackpool . today I can announce that I will deliver in full our manifesto commitment to upgrade million of home , save family and pensioner across the country up to £ 600 off their bill , each and every year . I be determined to do everything in my power to put more money in people ' s pocket , to give people security and control in their life , to make work people well off , and to show they that this Labour Government be on their side . taxpayer work hard for their money , and they expect their Government to spend their money with care . for the first time in 18 year , this Government have run a zero - base review , and make a line - by - line assessment of what the Government spend — something that the Tories do not bother to do in 14 year . as a result of that work , and our wide drive for efficiency , lead by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , in this spending review I have find saving from the closure and sale of government building and land , from cut back office cost , and from reduce consultancy spend — all of which the previous Government fail to do . those reform will make public service more efficient , more productive , and more focused on the user . I have be relentless in drive out inefficiency , and I will be relentless in cut out waste , with every single penny reinveste in our public service . I join the Labour party almost 30 year ago because I know , grow up , that the conservative party do not care much about school like mine , or the kid I grow up with . I join because I believe that every young person should have an equal chance to succeed , no matter where they come from or what their parent do . I believe that just as strongly today as I do then . that be why , at the Budget last autumn , I end the tax loophole that exempt private school from vat and business rate . I put that money where it belong : into help the 93 % of child in our state school . the Conservatives oppose money for their local state school , but I will always prioritise those school . that be my choice ; that be the labour choice . because of decision that we make in this spending review , last week , this Government , work with my right hon . friend the Education Secretary , announce that free school meal will be extend to over half a million more child . that policy alone will lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty — child in school from Tower Hamlets to Sunderland , and from Swansea to Bridgend . last year , at the Labour party conference , I be proud to announce the first step in our plan to deliver breakfast club for every child , with an initial roll - out to the first 750 school . we will continue with that national roll - out as part of our manifesto commitment , so that no child go hungry , and every child can have the good chance of thrive and succeed . I know that a good start in life do not start at school , so I can also announce £ 370 million for school - base nursery , to put we firmly on track to meet our plan for change commitment to a record number of child be school - ready . on child ' s social care , to break the dangerous cycle of late intervention and low - quality care , I be provide £ 555 million of transformation funding over the spending review period , so that child do not needlessly go into care when they could stay at home , and so that , where state intervention be necessary , there be well care , and there be well outcome . last week , I be pleased to announce , with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , that more than £ 130 million from the dormant asset scheme , run with the financial service sector , will be allocate to funding facility for our young people , to give every child the chance to take part in music , sport and drama , and to fund library in our school , so that the confidence and opportunity that those resource open up be no long the preserve of the privileged few . those be my choice , those be labour choice , and those be the choice of the british people . overall , I be provide a cash uplift of over £ 4 . 5 billion a year in additional funding for the core school budget by the end of the spending review , back our teacher and our kid . People who go to ordinary comprehensive in the ' 80 and ' 90 be all too familiar with the experience of be teach in temporary classroom . the previous Conservative Government oversee another generation of kid be herd into cold and damp building as school roof literally crumble . it be not acceptable when I be at school , and it be not acceptable now . I be therefore provide investment , rise to nearly £ 2 . 3 billion per year , to fix our crumble classroom , in addition to £ 2 . 4 billion per year to continue our programme to rebuild 500 school , include Chace community school in Enfield , Woodkirk academy in Leeds and Budmouth academy in Weymouth . invest in our young people , invest in Britain ' s future and invest in opportunity for all : that be Labour ' s choice . finally , let I turn — [ hon . member : " More ! " ] I know they would cheer . let I turn to our national health service . it be our most treasured public service , and people rightly expect an NHS that be there when they need it ; that an ambulance will come when they call one ; that a GP appointment will be available when they need one ; and that a scan will be perform when they be refer for one . I be hugely grateful to our nurse , our doctor , our paramedic and other healthcare professional for everything that they do . if we want a strong economy where work people can fulfil their potential , we must have a strong nhs — not , as the Reform party have call for , an insurance - base system . we believe in a publicly fund national health service , free at the point of use . perhaps the hon . member for Clacton should spend more time focus on the priority of the british people , and less time in the Westminster Arms — although , after this week , perhaps the two Chairmen pub might be a well fit . at the Budget , I take the decision necessary to provide an immediate injection of funding to get the NHS back on its foot . I commend my right hon . friend the Health Secretary for all the progress that he have already make . in less than a year , this Government have recruit 1 , 700 new GPs , deliver 3 . 5 million extra appointment and cut waiting list by more than 200 , 000 . fix our NHS also mean deliver fundamental reform across social care , so we be back the first ever fair pay agreement for that sector . I be also increase the NHS technology budget by almost 50 % , and we be invest £ 10 billion to bring our analogue health system into the digital age , include through the NHS app , so patient can manage their prescription , get their test result and book appointment all in one place . we be shift care back to the community and provide more funding to support the training of thousand more gps to deliver million more appointment . we be invest more in prevention , to meet our manifesto commitment of provide mental health support team in all school in England by the end of this Parliament . those investment will enable the delivery of our upcoming 10 - year plan for health and will put the NHS firmly back on the path to renewal . to support that plan , to back the doctor and nurse we rely on , and to make sure that the NHS be there whenever we need it , I be proud to announce today that this Labour Government be make a record cash investment in our national health service , increase real - term , day - to - day spending by 3 % per year for every single year of this spending review — an extra £ 29 billion per year for the day - to - day run of our health service . that be what the british people vote for and that be what we will deliver : more appointment , more doctor and more scanner . the national health service : create by a Labour Government , protect by a Labour Government and renew by this Labour Government . this be a spending review to deliver the priority of the british people : security , with a strong Britain in a change world ; economic growth , power by investment and opportunity in every part of Britain ; and our nation ' s health , with an NHS fit for the future . I have make my choice . in place of chaos , I choose stability ; in place of decline , I choose investment ; and in place of pessimism , division and defeatism , I choose national renewal . these be my choice , these be labour choice , and these be the choice of the british people . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Chancellor . this spending review be not worth the paper it be write on , because the Chancellor have completely lose control . this be the " spend now , tax later " review , because the right hon . Lady know that she will need to come back here in the autumn with yet more taxis , and a cruel summer of speculation await . how can we possibly take this Chancellor seriously after the chaos of the last 12 month ? we be assure at the election that labour ' s plan involve barely any additional spending or borrowing . now the Chancellor parade she largesse , with hundred of billion in additional spending over this Parliament . the initial profile for that spending be , of course , significantly front - loaded , but the Chancellor now expect we to believe that she will let spending rise by only 1 . 2 % a year . there be no chance whatsoever of that happen , for the lesson of the last year have be that when the going get tough , the right hon . Lady blink . she present herself as the iron Chancellor , but what we have see be the tinfoil Chancellor : flimsy and ready to fold in the face of the slight pressure . she say she would not fiddle her fiscal rule ; then she do . she say that she would not make any unfunded commitment ; with the humiliation of the winter fuel u - turn , she just have . she look business leader in the eye and say no more taxis , but we all know what happen next , and we all know what be come in the autumn . her own back Benchers , her Cabinet colleague , Labour ' s trade union paymaster and even the Prime Minister himself have all see that she be weak , weak , weak . they can smell the blood . they will be back for more , and they will get it . these spending plan be a fantasy , and be it not the truth that the Chancellor have to maintain this fiction because she have leave herself no room for manoeuvre ? she be constantly teeter on the edge of blow her fiscal rule , which she have already change to allow even more borrowing . the only way she can claim to be meet her rule be by pretend that she can control spending over the come year , but let we look at the record so far . borrow in the last financial year come out £ 11 billion above even the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s March forecast , and 70 % high than the plan she inherit from the Conservatives . for someone so keen on borrow , the Chancellor seem strangely reticent even to use the word . indeed , Ministers bizarrely tell we that it be labour ' s fiscal rule themselves that have " generate investment " . the reality be a little more straightforward : they have loosen the fiscal rule so they can borrow more . they borrow and borrow and borrow , allow the national debt to continue to rise higher every single year while Ministers pretend that it be not . there will be an eye - water £ 200 billion of additional borrowing in this Parliament compare with the plan set out in the last Conservative Budget , with £ 80 billion more to be spend on debt interest alone . in fact , if the Chancellor have retain our fiscal rule — [ Laughter . ] Labour member may laugh , but if she have retain our fiscal rule , as she say she would before the election , the OBR have confirm that she would be break they right now . our country be now vulnerable to even the small change in the bond market . should we face a sudden external shock , we have no fiscal firepower leave with which to respond , all thank to the right hon . Lady ' s choice . so can I ask the Chancellor : will she be open about what she have do ? will she admit that she have make a conscious choice to borrow more and to accept high debt ? do she accept that this mean interest rate and mortgage will be high than they would otherwise have be , as the OBR itself have say ? give that she continue to claim that she have bring stability to the public finance , can I ask she what on earth her definition of " stability " be ? the Chancellor must be delighted that she do not have to face a new OBR forecast today , because if she do , she would have to set out how she would fund her humiliating u - turn on winter fuel payment , have already blow the saving on buy off her trade union paymaster last year . she say this week that there be still " work to do to ensure the sum always add up " . from the person in charge of the nation ' s finance , that be hardly reassuring . you do not need to have work at the Bank of England for a decade to know that that pitiful utterance be unlikely to soothe the market . so can the Chancellor confirm categorically that there will be no additional borrowing to pay for this chaotic reversal ? and if that be the case , can she explain how on earth it can be pay for without raise taxis ? can she explain why , last summer , apparently to avoid a run on the pound , this measure be so urgent that pensioner have to be leave in the cold over the last winter ? what exactly have change ? because it certainly have not be make possible by an improvement in the economy or the public finance , which the Institute for Fiscal Studies say this week be both in a bad state now than when Labour come into office . if we have an OBR forecast , we might also get some answer on how the Government intend to find £ 3 . 5 billion to abolish the two - child benefit cap , which we be lead to believe be imminent — another addition to the ballooning welfare bill ; another expensive surrender to the Labour leave . and we would certainly get the OBR ' s assessment of the economic outlook follow the tariff — change that the right hon . Lady know full well be come . meanwhile , her deluge of taxis and regulation have leave business confidence at record low , cost people their livelihood . only yesterday we see the late evidence of that . figure for last month show that the number of people on payroll fall by more than 100 , 000 , after already fall by 55 , 000 in April . unemployment be up by more than 10 % since Labour come to office . the right hon . Lady may trumpet extra spending today , but be it not the simple truth that she have trash the economy and leave no contingency in the face of a highly volatile global outlook ? be it not the reality that the Chancellor know she will have to come back in the autumn with more tax rise to fund these plan ? or can she assure we right now that this be not the case — yes or no ? we know that the Deputy Prime Minister have helpfully provide she with an entire brochure of tax rise that she will no doubt be peruse over the summer — the Corbynist catalogue . can the Chancellor confirm that , as promise , the income tax threshold will not be freeze at the Budget , a move she herself say would hurt work people ? what about the uncertainty in the departmental spending plan that the Chancellor have set out today ? can she assure we that these plan will not be top up and that no backroom deal have be cut with disgruntle Cabinet Ministers ? can she assure we that the capital allocation announce today will actually be spend on capital and will not be divert in - year , as she have do in the past , to day - to - day budget to play more game with her fiscal rule ? the Chancellor have have to impose a settlement on the Home Secretary because this spending review will not deliver for our hard - work police officer across the country . instead , the Home Office budget get squander on asylum cost because this government simply do not have a plan on illegal migration . as the Defence Secretary have admit , the Government have " lose control " of our border . small boat crossing be up by 42 % on the same point last year . on energy , at a time when business up and down the country be struggle with high energy cost , the Chancellor have choose today to fund the Energy Secretary ' s vanity project such as GB Energy . and although we welcome the announcement on expand nuclear capacity , the scale of ambition be a downgrade on the commitment make previously by the Conservatives . Labour barely mention farming in its manifesto , and now we know why . it be not enough to have hit the farmer of our country with a family farm tax ; today , what we see in black and white be a choice to make further cut to the vital grant on which many farmer rely . this be a huge betrayal of our farming community , and something that many Labour mp in rural area will have to go back to their constituency later this week to explain . on defence , we will always welcome any additional investment in our armed force and capability , though I note nothing be say about when 3 % will be achieve . all we hear be that intelligence service spending be to be include in defence spending to flatter the number . we leave Labour a fully fund plan that they dither over for a year , but now what we get be the Chancellor ' s own black hole on defence spending and the lack of a timeline on when we will achieve 3 % . instead , we get a £ 30 billion bill for the Chagos surrender — money that should have go to our brave armed force rather than , as be be report , fund low taxation in Mauritius . the first tax cut for which this Chancellor have be responsible be in Mauritius . we would have make different choice . we would not have kill growth with huge tax rise and new regulation . we would not have talk down our economy and the great business up and down our country . we would be focus on efficiency and productivity in the public sector , not hand out pay rise with no string attach . we would be get a grip on welfare . labour cancel our plan for fundamental reform to health and disability benefit that would have see 450 , 000 few people on long - term sickness benefit — that be a disgrace . instead of proper reform to PIP , the Government ' s own plan be a rush cost - cut exercise — so rush they even have to change they after they be announce . their own back Benches be in full revolt . yet again , the Government talk tough , but there be no substance . the right hon . Lady have no grip . she have no clue . the market and the public see a Chancellor completely out of her depth . have blow her headroom and more from her Budget in the autumn , she be force into an emergency Budget in March to scrabble around to try to repair the damage . today she come before we again with yet another fantastical tale that she know will have completely fall apart come the autumn . we be not leave with strong foundation , as she would have we believe , but rather another dose of that hallmark for which her action have make she so renowned : uncertainty and failure . so there the right hon . Lady sit , powerless to resist her disillusioned mps and her panic Prime Minister , like a cork on the tide , the drumbeat for u - turn pound in her ear . yet her tone today suggest that all be well ; the sunlit upland await . what a hopeless conceit — a masterclass in delusion . inflation be up , unemployment be up , growth be mark down , business and household be hurt , investor be flee in their drove , the bond market vigilante circle — and here we have the Chancellor who refuse to listen , not only tinfoil , but tin - eare , too . let I be clear : it be work people and business who will pay the price come the autumn , with yet more taxis to pay for her weakness and her failure . we can not afford this spending review , and for many , the grow conclusion be that we can not afford this Chancellor . I will address the shadow Chancellor ' s specific point in a moment , but I want to start by acknowledge the progress he have make . after all , it have be quite a week for he . last Thursday , he give a speech say that it will " take time " for his party to win back trust on the economy . today he show we how far he and his party have to go to achieve that . I want to give he some credit for last week ' s analysis . he say that " the Conservative Party be see to have fail " , and he be right . he say that the last Conservative Government " put at risk the very stability which Conservatives have always say must be carefully protect " , and I agree with he . [ interruption . ] order . I need to be able to hear , and I be sure our constituent also want to hear . the shadow Chancellor say : " the credibility of the UK ' s economic framework be undermine by spend billion … with no proper plan for how this would be pay for . " I could not put it well myself . he could have go a lot far . for example , he could not even bring himself to mention Liz Truss by name — stride by name , baby step by nature — but at least he have make a start . he also speak about " the death of what we might call the Age of Thoughtfulness . " speak of the death of thoughtfulness , let I turn to the shadow Chancellor ' s response to the spending review . he welcome our nuclear investment of £ 30 billion , but he say it be not enough . he welcome our defence investment of £ 11 billion , but he say it be not enough . he and his party oppose the decision that this Government have take to make those announcement possible by vote against the Budget in October . you can not spend the money if you will not raise the money . that be a lesson from Liz Truss that he have already forget . the shadow Chancellor complain about the level of investment that I have announce , ignore the fact that the reason this investment be so important be because his party oversee 14 year of cratere investment , stagnate wage and public service collapse . let I remind he of what I say : the Tories ' fiscal rule guarantee neither stability nor investment , and that be why I change they , so we can get stability and investment . all their fiscal rule enable be they to crash the economy , and the work people of Britain will never forgive they for do that . the conservative set themselves against investment in the renewal of Britain . they set themselves against NHS investment , free school meal , investment in skill , investment in carbon capture and storage , investment in transport in our town and city — investment in everything that we have set out today — and yet the british people vote for that investment . the right hon . Gentleman say that the Home Office budget involve an increase in asylum cost . it do not . asylum cost be come down under this Labour Government because we be deport more people and get they out of hotel . he say we be cut police spending ; we be increase it by 2 . 3 % a year in real term . we have have no apology for the damage the Conservatives do to our economy and our public service . interest rate have be cut four time in the past 11 month ; GDP be the fast growing of all G7 economy in the first quarter of the year ; business confidence be rise ; 500 , 000 more people be in work ; record investment have be make in Britain ; real wage have increase more in 10 month than they do in 10 year of a Conservative Government ; the national living wage have increase , give 3 million work people a pay rise ; and we have do all that without increase taxis on work people . those be the choice we have make . that be the difference we be make . in the spending review today , we set out the spending that we announce in the Budget last year and in the spring statement — not a penny more , not a penny less . I say in the Budget and in the spring statement that public service must now live within the mean that we have set , and we have achieve that . there will be a budget later this year , and in that Budget we will set out all the fiscal plan in the round . but we have already draw a line under the Tory mismanagement , with tax rise last year , and we will never have to repeat a Budget like that again because we will never have to clean up after the mess that the Conservatives make again . the reason that this Labour Government have spend their first year fix the foundation of our economy and stabilise our public finance be because it be what we have to do . the Government of which the shadow Chancellor be a part of leave an unenviable legacy , which be why his party be , in his own word , " in a difficult place . " we have make our choice . we be remove barrier to growth , which be untouched by the Conservatives in their 14 year in office ; strengthen Britain ' s security with the big real - term increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war , which the Conservatives do not do in their 14 year in office ; bring our health service into the 21st century after 14 year of conservative neglect ; invest in Britain ' s renewal to repair the damage do by the Conservatives in their 14 year in office ; and , in stark contrast to the Conservatives ' 14 year of chaos , waste and decline , we be deliver on the priority of the british people . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I congratulate my right hon . friend on deliver this spending review — the first zero - base review in a very long time . it be vital that as taxpayer — the citizen — be look carefully at their spending in this cost of living crisis , that Government do that too . we look forward to have the Chief Secretary to the Treasury before the Committee in two week ' time to consider the review in more detail . I note from the figure that the Chancellor have make a good fist of ensure that Departments have more than they do under the Conservatives in many case , and I welcome her work to deliver on tackle child poverty , a scourge on our society . I note from my brief glimpse , however , that there be a small increase for the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government than there would have be — there be the £ 39 billion over a decade for affordable social housing . child live in poverty also face poverty of situation in many case . will she expand on how she and the Deputy Prime Minister will deliver that money to provide the social housing that so many child in poverty desperately need ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s welcome of the breakfast club , free school meal and the capping of school uniform cost , which will help family live in poverty . the free school meal will , as she know , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . she mention the affordable home grant , which will have its big ever increase . we have set that budget for 10 year to give certainty to the sector , so that it understand what be available . in addition , we have set out some social rent change to give certainty to the sector to invest for the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it have be almost a year since Labour sweep to power with the promise of change , but we be still not see the scale of ambition need to turn the country around . we welcome the announcement of investment in the NHS , but it will not work unless the Government invest in social care too . we welcome the investment in infrastructure , but it will not work unless the Government invest in skille up the workforce that we need to build it . cut billion in real term from departmental budget seem unnecessary when the Government could instead go for growth and get a much deep trading relationship with Europe — a move that could raise an extra £ 25 billion a year for the public purse . as long as the Government fail to truly tackle the red tape and trading barrier block british business , the Government ' s grip on economic growth be more akin to a handbrake than an accelerator . the last Conservative Government leave our NHS on its knee . on their watch , waiting list be soar , hospital be crumble and our high street healthcare be hollow out . can the Chancellor confirm that this funding will deliver the extra 8 , 000 GPs need to guarantee everyone an appointment within seven day , or within 24 hour if the matter be urgent ? can she confirm that this funding will bring dentist back into the NHS and put an end to dental desert ? will she promise that this funding will mean that every cancer patient start treatment within 62 day ? will she promise that the Government will meet the Prime Minister ' s own pledge for 92 % of routine operation to take place within 18 week ? will she and the Health Secretary — they be sit side by side — set up a crumble hospital taskforce to look at creative funding idea , bring construction date forward and put an end to the vicious cycle and false economy of delay rebuild lead to rise repair cost , as we see under the previous Government ? then , of course , there be the elephant in the NHS waiting room : the crisis in our social care service . the Chancellor know , the Health and Social Care Secretary know , this whole Parliament know : today ' s investment in the NHS will be like pour water into a leaky bucket if hospital can not discharge patient who be well enough to leave because there be no care worker to help they recover at home . the fair pay agreement that the Chancellor talk about be of course welcome , but it be barely a baby step , and it be nowhere near enough to bring social care back from the brink . at a bare minimum , we need a high minimum wage for our care worker to stop the sector haemorrhage staff to other sector . when will the Chancellor finally recognise that we will never fix the nhs if we do not fix social care too ? will the Government finally act with urgency by commit to conclude the social care review by the end of this year , not in three year ' time ? on housing , we warmly welcome the Government ' s investment in social home . will they now commit to the Liberal Democrats ’ target of building 150 , 000 social home every year ? other public service be cry out for investment , too . our community need proper neighbourhood police to feel safe , our farmer need fair support payment to keep put food on our table , and people of all age deserve access to training and skill to build their future and to power our economy forward . that be why it be so disappointing that the Chancellor have today make thing so difficult for our public service by cut unprotected budget by billion . yes , we know she be face with the fallout from the most reckless , out - of - touch conservative Government in recent memory , but be responsible be not just about make tough decision ; it be about have the moral courage to make the right one . yet this Government seem determined not to adopt the one policy that could put rocket booster on our economy and raise billion for our public service : a proper trade deal with Europe . a new , bespoke customs union with the European Union could boost our gdp by more than 2 . 2 % , secure additional revenue to the tune of £ 25 billion a year — a huge boost to business and our struggle public service . if the Chancellor can u - turn on the winter fuel payment thank to a skinny EU trade pact worth just 0 . 2 % in extra gdp , just imagine how many more u - turn she could perform with a proper trade deal worth ten time as much . we Liberal Democrats strongly support the allocation of 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , but we want Ministers to go far and fast to bolster our national security in today ' s uncertain world . will the Chancellor agree to cross - party talk in which we can work together to set a pathway to 3 % of GDP well ahead of 2034 ? will the Government use some of today ' s investment to reverse the Conservatives ' irresponsible cut of 10 , 000 troop ? will she ensure that invest in our national security become a lever for economic growth , put much great emphasis on british steel producer and sme as we scale - up our defence , and ensure that british start - up can use defence innovation for the public good ? before I conclude , I must thank the Chancellor for finally complete the world ' s slow u - turn , on the unfair winter fuel payment cut . now that she have U - turn , will she do the right thing and backdate the payment for all those who lose out on support last winter but who be now eligible under the new rule ? and now that she have U - turn once , will she make it a hat trick and also change course on the PIP and carer ' s allowance cut ? perhaps she might even look again at the growth - crush job tax and the other change affect our high street , small business and family business , and consider instead the fairer way of raise the same amount of revenue that we Liberal Democrats have set out time and again : ask the big bank , social medium giant and online gambling company to start pay their fair share of tax . after year of chaos and incompetence under the last Conservative Government , this be a unique opportunity to draw a line under the social care crisis , squeeze budget and sluggish economic growth . I strongly urge the Chancellor to ignore those who talk down Britain ' s economic potential , to rip up the red tape hold british business back , and to strike a properly ambitious trade deal with Europe that will turbocharge our economy and bring in billion to rebuild our public service . the Government say that their no . 1 mission be growth . that be the way to deliver it . I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . I know she have not have a chance to look at the figure yet , but it be not right to say that there be real - term cut to public service . public service spending be increase by 2 . 3 % a year on average over the course of the spending review . I will start on investment in the NHS and social care . as I set out in my speech , we have already deliver 1 , 500 more gps and put £ 26 billion into the NHS in the first phase of the spending review . I note that that compare with the £ 8 billion that the Liberal Democrats say they be go to put into the NHS in their manifesto . we have already put £ 26 billion in , and we will put more money in today and in every year of this Parliament . the new hospital programme be be roll out . I think the Health Secretary meet just last week with member of Parliament who be have hospital improvement in their local community , include many liberal Democrat mps , so the hon . Lady should be aware that we be make improvement to the fabric of our hospital as well as invest in technology , scanner and so on to improve productivity in our health service . with regard to social care , as the hon . Lady know , we be introduce the fair pay agreement — that be something that the Health Secretary and my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister be very much committed to . as the hon . Lady will know when she look at the document , we have increase local government spending power so that we can put more money into social care . in addition , Louise Casey be do her review into the future of social care . we be go big on infrastructure . we announce £ 100 billion more in the Budget last year and another £ 13 billion in the spring statement , and we be back that up with skill . as I set out in my speech and as be detail in the spending review document , we be make the big ever investment in young people ' s skill so that they can access the new job that be be create in defence , house building and other infrastructure . on red tape and back business , it be a little bit ironic that the Liberal Democrats vote against the Planning and Infrastructure Bill yesterday , yet they come to the House today say that they want to do away with red tape and go for growth . well , we want to go for growth , and that be why we take that legislation through Parliament . perhaps the hon . Lady will ask her party ' s Lords to vote for growth in the other place . we have do trade deal with the US , India and the EU . I think the Liberal Democrats oppose the trade deal with the US , but apparently they now think that trade deal be the way to go — well , so do we . that be why my right hon . friend the Business and Trade Secretary have three of they help our automotive sector , our steel sector and our farming community . we will use defence spending to support growth — the Defence Secretary and I have be very clear about that — and , as I set out in my speech , to make Britain a defence industrial superpower . I say gently to the Liberal Democrats and the hon . Lady that if we want to support investment in public service , we have to increase the tax rise to get there . they vote against the national insurance increase , which be what have enable we to make the investment that I have set out today . the hon . Lady say that she want a wealth tax . we change inheritance tax , and the Liberal Democrats vote against it . we introduce vat on private school , and the Liberal Democrats vote against it . either they be serious about invest in public service , in which case they need to back the tax increase , or they want to go down the route of the magic - money - tree conservative party and just borrow more to pay for thing . on the winter fuel allowance , we have make our choice clear : we will keep the mean test , but it will be pay to people with a pension of less than £ 35 , 000 . I think the Liberal Democrats want to make it a universal benefit again . indicate dissent . okay , that be just the Tories — well , they need to explain how they would pay for it . I appreciate the fact that the hon . Lady welcome some of our policy , but the job of the Chancellor and the Government be to ensure that the sum add up . we make difficult decision last October , but I stand by those difficult decision ; without they , today we would not have be able to make the investment we have make in school , energy and our health service . I be proud of what we have achieve as a Government , and I be proud of the investment that we be put in today . the warm home plan will mean healthy and warm home and will see low bill and create job in community right across the country . it be a very good plan , especially for those face fuel poverty . the last government ' s home energy programme change every few month , which mean that business could not plan and consumer have no confidence in it , not to mention the scandalous misapplication of fix - wall insulation . will my right hon . friend confirm that this be a long - term warm home plan that will deliver warm home and cut bill to the benefit of million of our constituent for year to come ? I thank the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee for that question . warm home be a big part of our plan to tackle the cost of living crisis , and the money that we have put into the warm home plan today will mean that million more home can be retrofit with well boiler , insulation and solar panel . on average , that take £ 600 a year off people ' s bill not just for one year , but for every year to come . my hon . friend be absolutely right . what we have do today be set out a five - year package of capital investment , because it be crucial that the industry be able to plan for the future and that young people be therefore willing to train up and business be willing to invest in apprenticeship . that be why on all of our capital spending , include the warm home plan , we have set out a five - year plan . my constituent in Tenbury Wells be seek fund for a flood defence scheme . they will have listen very closely to the Chancellor ' s remark today to hear her mention flood defence capital spending , yet it be not mention in her speech . can she confirm that the capital that will be allocate in the spending review period to flood defence will be as high in real term as it be in the previous Parliament ? the hon . Lady know that we increase money for flood defence in the spending review in autumn last year , because we know that there be no time to waste . we have already increase that flood defence spending , in addition to what the previous Government be spend . this spending review be good for Britain ' s business , because it invest in the thing that british business need : it invest in skill , infrastructure and innovation , cut red tape and support small firm . can the Chancellor clarify that this spending review will also open a new era of energy abundance for our country ? the Business and Trade Committee hear directly from the International Monetary Fund in Washington yesterday that high energy cost be hold back growth . that be a consequence of the dither and delay from the Conservatives , who leave we with the high industrial energy cost in Europe . will the Chancellor confirm to the House that we be consign that era to history ? my right hon . friend be right . we be back innovation , skill and infrastructure , because we be back british business . we be also cut red tape , as we do yesterday , when we take the Planning and Infrastructure Bill through the House , make it easy to get thing build in Britain again . as we make the investment , we want those job to come to Britain , include in the energy sector , whether it be investment in small modular reactor , Sizewell C , carbon capture and storage or float offshore wind . we will set out the industrial strategy in the next couple of week , in which we will have more to say about energy cost for business . I thank the Chancellor for engage productively in the discussion about sustainable budget for Northern Ireland , for the willingness to negotiate far and for the recognition that our need level should be meet . I thank she for that engagement and for the allocation to Northern Ireland for specific community project that have be advance by we . she have choose through this allocation to make a budget available for the redevelopment of Casement Park . she will know about the political nature of some of the concern around that redevelopment , and that in all previous agreement in the Executive , these thing have be advance in a balanced and non - partisan way . this Government have choose to step into this issue in an unbalanced and partisan way . as such , in make financial transaction capital available — £ 50 million over the course of the next spending period — I ask the Chancellor to ensure that where there be a need for investment in football , as there be , she return to the Executive ' s agreement of 2011 in a balanced and non - partisan way . I hope that she will not be find want . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and the way in which he have put it . I be pleased to be able to announce the settlement for Northern Ireland in today ' s spending review , but also money through the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . he mention Casement Park , and we have put £ 50 million in through this spending review . I will arrange for the right hon . Gentleman to meet either the Northern Ireland Secretary or a Minister from my Department to talk through what he want to see . I welcome the focus my right hon . friend the Chancellor have place on child and young people in this spending review , with additional investment in child ' s social care , school and skill . these announcement show the Government ' s commitment to improve the life chance of every child , and my Committee look forward to scrutinise the detail in the come week . the Chancellor will know that university be the life force of many local economy , generate job , improve skill and boost life chance , yet a number of our university be at the brink of insolvency . the sector have be call for a transformation fund to help university reform and secure a sustainable future , so can the Chancellor confirm that she will work with Cabinet colleague to ensure that no town or city have to face the calamity of a university go bust ? I thank my hon . friend , the Chair of the Education Committee , for her question . I appreciate she welcome the investment in child ' s social care , in skill and in school — issue that she know and care passionately about . in the spending review , we be able to set out a total of £ 86 billion of investment in research and development , much of it spend through our university and research institutes , but I be certain that the Education Secretary or the relevant Minister will meet my hon . friend to talk about the wide allocation from this spending review . scientist at the UK Health Security Agency at Porton Down make a massive contribution to the welfare of our country in difficult time . ten year ago , the Chancellor ' s predecessor want to invest £ 525 million in move to a single science hub in Harlow . some £ 400 million have already be spend , and last year , the National Audit Office say that it would cost £ 3 . 2 billion to complete the move by 2036 . three week ago , I have an Adjournment debate in which I be tell that today , we would know the outcome of what be actually go to happen with this project . can the Chancellor explain what be happen with the future of the ukhsa at Porton down ? be it go to move to Harlow , at massive expense — six time the original estimate — and 15 year later than be estimate , or can we save some money and use it for well investment in our public estate ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman and member of the Treasury Select Committee for his question . we have make the allocation to the Department of Health and Social Care — an annual uplift of £ 29 billion — and it will be up to the Secretary of State to allocate that money , but I will make sure that he have hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s question and that he get a proper reply to he . with a £ 2 . 5 billion investment into nuclear in Derby , £ 2 . 5 billion into nuclear fusion in north Nottinghamshire , and half a billion into steel suitable for use in the nuclear industry in Sheffield , my constituency be surround by wonderful opportunity in these industry of the future . can the Chancellor outline what more we can do to support young people in my constituency to access career in those industry ? we as a Government be proud to be able to step in and save British Steel at Scunthorpe , and again I thank my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe , but it be not just Scunthorpe . there be also opportunity in Sheffield and Port Talbot , because as we build this infrastructure — whether it be tram and train , nuclear power or submarine — we want to use steel make in Britain . that be a really exciting opportunity , and the investment we be make in small modular reactor and fusion in Nottinghamshire and Derby create great opportunity for job . that be why we be also make a record investment in skill through the spending review , so that young people in North East Derbyshire and beyond can get access to the job that be be create . I call Liz Saville Roberts . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Dirprwy Lefarydd . the announcement of just £ 44 . 5 million a year for the next 10 year for Welsh rail be Labour ' s flimsy fig leaf of an excuse for the multibillion and multi - decade scandal that be hs2 . the money announce today be only significant if it match what Wales will continue to lose from all England - only rail project , up to now and in the future . can the Chancellor guarantee that from now on , Wales will receive the full £ 4 billion hs2 consequential funding , or will she admit that her announcement on Welsh rail funding be nothing but smoke and mirror ? I do not think £ 445 million be not real money . that money will be invest in the Burns review station . in addition , we be put in £ 118 million to make the coal tip safe . maybe the right hon . Lady be not that concerned about that , but I know that plenty of Welsh Labour mp be . I wonder whether the Chancellor can help I . I want to write a letter to my constituent , and I do not know which story I should lead with — whether it be the rapid investment in our NHS to get more doctor ' appointment , the money for our police to get more police on the street , the transport investment to build new train station , or the money to give hungry child in my constituency free school meal . could she help I out ? I only have one page . what should I start with ? my hon . friend will want to leave space on the leaflet to remind his constituent that he be lobby for all those thing so that he can take the thank . I welcome the u - turn on the winter fuel payment — of course I do , and lot of my constituent will do likewise — but there be no respite in this spending review for farmer in Scotland , business owner in Scotland , GP surgery in Scotland , or the disabled in hospice in Scotland . despite what the Chancellor say , there have also be real - term cut to the Home Office , Foreign Office and local government in this spending review . the Chancellor be an open book . she play roulette with the economy , but I would not encourage she to play poker any time soon , because she mention Reform and the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) in her speech more time than she mention Scotland — what a disgrace ! she mention that she have finally get around to Acorn , but without a figure attach . what funding be she go to allocate for Acorn ? we know that if it be Merseyside or Teesside , there be £ 22 billion for they . how much for Acorn ? I do mention the SNP — I question why the SNP do not support defence investment in Scotland — but I can mention it again , if the hon . Gentleman would like I to . why have the SNP let down the people of Scotland with rise hospital waiting list ? why have the SNP let down people in Scotland with more drug death ? why have the SNP let people down time and again ? we be put money into Acorn and into defence investment , and we be give a record settlement to the SNP Government , but hopefully they will not be there for much long . I thank my right hon . friend the Chancellor for prioritise affordable housing , which be overdue . that extra investment will go a long way towards address the spiral , broken housing system that have push so many people into poverty . last year , a record 126 , 000 household face homelessness , an increase of over 17 , 000 in one year alone . we see so many family place in what we call temporary accommodation , but it be not temporary — five year or more be far from temporary . child be travel for hour to get to school , family do not have a space in which to grow up , and we have lose a decade of build the social home that we need . I join with the like of Shelter and the National Housing Federation in welcome the investment in affordable housing and the certainty of a 10 - year rent settlement , but we need more of these measure , and we need to build truly social home . can the Chancellor confirm what proportion of social rent home will form the backbone of the affordable home programme , to get those family into a safe , secure and stable home ? I thank my hon . friend for her campaigning on housing and homelessness , which be a big challenge in many of our constituency , include her in Vauxhall and Camberwell Green . we want to work closely with local council and the Mayor of London to build the affordable home that we desperately need in the capital city , where house price and rent be still far too high for so many family . I look forward to work with my hon . friend on just that . the billion of pound that have be announce by the Chancellor be very big rise , and the Public Accounts Committee look forward to scrutinise that expenditure — I be sure it will be welcome by those who receive it — to ensure we be get value for money , but can the Chancellor explain to the House how it will be fund , because debt and tax be at record level ? can british worker look forward to a summer of expect more tax increase ? I look forward to that scrutiny , but the hon . Gentleman will know that the allocation we have make today be base on the tax increase we make in the Budget last year . we be not spend a single penny more or a single penny less than the money we set out in the autumn Budget and the spring statement . I welcome the significant transport investment that the Chancellor have announce in the north and in the city region . that be help through her change to the Green Book , but when will the place - base business case be review so that those area can start plan for the local transport initiative that they have wait so long for ? I hope that my hon . friend can already see the impact of our change attitude and our change perspective at the Treasury with our put this record investment of £ 15 . 6 billion , which we announce last week , into eight mayoral combined authority to well connect town and city . because of the change we have make , we have be able to put more money into the trans - Pennine route upgrade and the midland hub , as well as significant investment in train in Wales . my community in Westmorland will be outrage by a 17 % reduction in farm funding . we be perplexed , because we be tell to expect a decision today on the vital scheme to dual the A66 from Penrith to Scotch Corner . that be crucial to east - west connectivity , to the northern economy and to save life . there be no mention in the statement or in the accompany document at all . will the Chancellor confirm that the A66 upgrade will take place ? the allocation have now be make to the Department for Transport . we have not set out every project that that will fund , but I be sure the Transport Secretary will come to this House or the relevant Select Committee in due course . I thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer for put her faith in young people and the future with investment in the AI , nuclear and defence opportunity that young people in Scotland deserve , alongside £ 1 . 2 billion for training and apprenticeship . meanwhile , in my constituency , Fife college have recently warn about course cut and campus closure , thank to the mismanagement of the scottish budget by the SNP . do she agree that the good way to get young people the opportunity they deserve in defence , nuclear and other industry be with a Scottish Labour Government and Anas Sarwar as First Minister ? we see in the by - election last week how desperate the people of Scotland be for change , after two decade of SNP so - call leadership . we be invest in training and apprenticeship in this spending review , and I very much hope that the SNP will match that investment in Scotland . the Chancellor supposedly inherit a black hole , and she have dig a crater into which public confidence and business confidence be plunge . the truth be that 250 , 000 job have disappear since the blunder Budget . despite all the noise we hear from those on the Government Benches , the reality be that government spending be completely out of control . inflation be up , unemployment be up , government borrowing be up and the cost of government borrowing be up . the only thing that be go down be job and GDP . I have some good news for the Chancellor , however . the 10 council that we control be already identify saving of hundred of million of pound . she may want to learn some lesson . that be why Reform be lead in the poll . I note recently that the hon . Member say on a podcast that he want to cut Government spending by £ 300 billion , but that would mean get rid of the whole of the NHS and the whole of the defence budget . we have increase spending by £ 300 billion to invest in our school , our hospital , our transport and our defence . I know that Reform be soft on defence , soft on worker ’ right and want to privatise our NHS . I do not think those be the priority of the british people . reform ' s economic policy appear to have be cook up after a heavy night at Moe ' s bar in " The Simpsons " . in 18 year , the SNP have fail to invest in Glasgow ' s transport infrastructure . we have no airport rail link , and no parkhead station . we do not even have lift at Bridgeton station . I contrast that with my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s firm commitment to transport . there be also £ 50 billion extra for the Scottish Government to sort out the SNP ' s NHS waiting list ; record investment in the defence industry and the Clyde to defend our nation , which the SNP object to ; investment in clean energy , which be critical for job in Glasgow ; and continue support for the Glasgow and Clyde Valley city deal . do she agree that those thing demonstrate that Scotland be at the heart of this Labour Government ? it be time that we turf out the SNP , after its 18 year of failure . in the spending review today , we have set out : investment in defence to support job in Scotland ; investment in Acorn to support job in Scotland ; investment in nuclear , which will benefit the people of Scotland through low bill ; and a record settlement for the Scottish Government . it be up to they now to use that money wisely . I would not hold out much hope , under the SNP . I know the Chancellor consider herself to be a world - lead economist , so can she tell I how it be that everyone in the country know that hike taxis on employer ' national insurance contribution — make it more expensive to employ people — would destroy job , destroy business and destroy the economy , and the only people who do not know that be she and her socialist boss ? I be sorry to disappoint the right hon . Lady , but there be 500 , 000 more job in Britain since the last general election . business confidence be go up . my constituency of Loughborough , Shepshed and the village be in the east midland , a region that have be overlook for too long . that end today , first with the change to the Green Book , which we all welcome . there will be more money outside London ; I hope my colleague do not mind too much . secondly , we have more than £ 100 billion of investment . can the Chancellor please set out how today ' s investment will get bill down and wage rise in my constituency of Loughborough , Shepshed and the village ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the change to the Green Book , which will well enable the Government to invest , and will stop the situation whereby the Treasury use to wield the Green Book against local community when it come to the investment that they want to make . this be a good spending review for the east midland , as my hon . Friend mention , with investment in nuclear fusion and small modular reactor . many business in the supply chain right across the east midland will benefit from that significant investment and the job it will bring . last year , during the mayoral election , Sadiq Khan claim that a labour mayor work with a Labour Government would be a game changer for the city , but just now he have release a statement criticise the spending review for underfunde the Met police , fail to invest in our transport infrastructure , and potentially make the housing crisis in our capital bad . be Sadiq Khan wrong to put his trust in this Labour Government ? for London , today we have increase the spending power of the police by 2 . 3 % in real term every year ; we have record investment in the affordable home programme , which include build new home in London ; and we have free school meal , lift around 10 , 000 child in London out of poverty , and much more . we be also back a third runway at Heathrow and invest in tunnelling to take hs2 to Euston . this be a good spending review for London , but most importantly , it be a good spending review for the whole United Kingdom . I congratulate the Chancellor on the spending review , and welcome her commitment both to defence spending and to our be a defence industrial superpower , which be vital to my community in Aldershot and Farnborough . this week , my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) and I publish a report entitle " rewire British Defence Financing " , which support the Chancellor ' s work to fire up our defence industrial base . as part of that , will she support my campaign for a UK - lead multilateral defence security and resilience bank to finance our national resilience , support our ally , and keep our country safe ? I thank my hon . friend for the work that she and my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) have do to make the moral case for financial service fund invest in defence , which be what keep our country safe . as we uplift our defence spending , we want to get value for money . that be why we be so pleased that , in the deal that we do with the European Union , we secure a defence industrial partnership with the EU . across the country , people see their health service severely overstretch , school headteacher face have to make cut , and , of course , the most vulnerable people in society face cut to disability benefit . accord to the BBC ' s analysis of the Chancellor ' s statement , her figure will mean a sharp decline in budget for public service after 2026 . be not the statement a matter of smoke and mirror ? will the Chancellor instead consider the grow call for a wealth tax on the ultra - rich , so that she can raise the extra ten of billion that be need to support our public service and restore much - need pride and hope in Britain ? it be difficult to tell whether the hon . Gentleman support the spending review and the additional money that we be put into public service , or be against it . the settlement for the NHS mean 3 % real - term growth a year , and for the police the figure be 2 . 3 % a year . there be also an increase in per - pupil funding , as well as a real - term increase in the school budget , so I be not exactly sure what the hon . Gentleman ' s complaint be . there be a terrible , dangerous coal slip in my constituency last autumn , and the coal tip safety funding announce today be hugely welcome . it be great to see our Labour Government stand up for Wales . look forward , however , may I ask the Chancellor please to review the miner ' staff superannuation scheme ? hard - work family deserve fairness in their retirement , and I be sure that she will give they a fair hearing . I be very pleased that we be able to make this multi - year commitment on coal tip safety . the Government provide money for this in last year ' s spending review , but that be for just one year , and today we have be able to give certainty that money will be available for the vital work that be necessary . I thank my hon . friend for welcome it ; it be a shame that Plaid Cymru do not . my hon . friend have be a staunch supporter of reform of the miner ' pension scheme . we make reform in the Budget last year , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister meet he to discuss what more we can do to secure a fair pension for miner in retirement . London Members be hope to hear more about infrastructure investment in the capital today . we be look for spending on the Bakerloo line extension , and spending to deal with the Croydon bottleneck . I even dare to dream that Hammersmith bridge might one day be fix , but all we have hear from the Chancellor be her reiterate support for the expansion of Heathrow airport . as she will know , Heathrow expansion be oppose by every political party in the capital , and by the Mayor of London . it be not welcome . the negligible economic benefit of expand Heathrow do not compensate for the massive environmental and noise impact that expansion will have on many people in the capital , particularly my constituent . may I ask the Chancellor to look again at her support for Heathrow , and consider the great merit of many other infrastructure project across London ? the hon . Lady start that question want to be a builder , and end it by be a blocker . I suppose that be not surprising , give that the Liberal Democrats vote against the Planning and Infrastructure Bill yesterday , while we Labour Members support it , because we want to get Britain building and to create prosperity and wealth in all our community . in today ' s spending review , we have provide an integrated settlement for the Mayor of London and a multi - year settlement for Transport for London . we have also support expansion at City airport , and we have an in - principle commitment to expansion , and a second runway , at Gatwick . this government be back London , but most importantly , we be a Government for the whole country . that be why we have announce significant investment across the UK today , which be much need . the sdlp ' s priority continue to be fund Northern Ireland on the basis of need , and I urge the Government to take focused action , so that we can have sustainable public service and , hopefully , stable politic that will start to deliver for health and education and deal with the squeeze in housing and childcare . I warmly welcome the funding allocation for Casement Park , which represent much more than just a stadium . it be a home for Ulster ' s Gaelic Athletic Association , to match the wonderful home that we have for soccer and rugby in Northern Ireland , and it be a flagship venue for west Belfast and an economic opportunity for the whole city . do the Chancellor agree that , while there be a way to go to secure the funding for the stadium that the GAA ' s hundred of thousand of supporter and volunteer deserve , the onus be now on the Stormont Executive — on Sinn F é in , the Democratic Unionist party and the Alliance party — to get move , end a decade of dither and delay , and finally get Casement Park build ? this Government have provide £ 50 million in the spending review today , but we have also , I hope , do much more for Northern Ireland , provide a settlement that be a record since devolution , as well as significant investment in our defence sector . Northern Ireland have a proud history of produce for the UK ' s defence need . of course I welcome the continue support for Scunthorpe steelwork , but may I gently remind the Chancellor that that support come seven month after I first raise the issue in the House , and we then have the panic of the Saturday sit in April ? the Chancellor mention support for the vike carbon capture and storage project , for which , again , I have lobby for a long time . can she give I a little more detail about the timeframe ? I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome what we do with British Steel in Scunthorpe . I know that he have be a strong voice advocate for British Steel there , unlike some of our late arrival in another party . as for Viking CCS , I be very pleased to announce that funding today , along with the Acorn investment in Aberdeenshire . the Energy Secretary will set out , in due course , the timing and the money available , but after our investment in CCS in Merseyside and Teesside at the end of last year , we be now in a position to provide a second tranche in Aberdeen , and also in the Humber . I thank the Chancellor for all her commitment to spend on education , health and transport , but I thank she particularly for the £ 39 billion that she have commit to housing . in my constituency , thousand of family be still wait for social home , and about 20 , 000 people be now on Bolton ' s housing waiting list . may I ask whether some of that money could be use to build more social housing in area like mine , so that we can meet the need of our constituent ? my hon . friend speak powerfully about the desperate need for more social and affordable home in all our community , include those in Bolton . that multi - year commitment and £ 39 billion of investment will help we to build the social and affordable home that our country desperately need , and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government will work with local authority to bring forward those plan and get Britain build the home that we need . what be most interesting about the spending review be what be not mention : there be no mention of the River Thames scheme , no mention of our river , no mention of the Animal and Plant Health Agency in New Haw , and no mention of improvement to rail , despite the nationalisation of South Western Railway . in fact , there be almost no mention at all of the south - east , despite the Chancellor say that this a spending review for the whole UK . however , she have effectively confirm the third runway at Heathrow , despite there be no local engagement . may I invite the Chancellor to come to Runnymede and Weybridge to meet people and see if their priority be indeed hers , as she claim ? it be difficult to understand exactly what the conservative critique of this spending review be . the shadow Chancellor say that we should spend less , but the hon . Gentleman have just ask we to spend more . if hon . member on either side of the House want to spend more , they need to say where the money would come from . I be not sure that he have an answer to that . I welcome the Chancellor ' s statement and her steely determination to ensure that everyone in Darlington be well off . I particularly welcome the capital infrastructure project , which be essential not only for sovereign security but for regional growth . do she agree that these project will be transformational for engineering and fabricate sme in my constituency , many of which be set up and be staff by incredibly highly skilled people who find themselves out of a job when the last Government turn their back on british foundation industry ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : what this spending review do , through its investment in infrastructure , be create job in our supply chain for small business in community right across our country . the investment in some of our foundational industry , such as steel , offer real opportunity for good , unionised job that pay decent wage , and I be really proud to be able to set out that investment and the job that young people in Darlington and around the country will be able to access because of the choice we have make today . as the Chancellor know , our economy will only escape its difficult place if we raise economic productivity . on the Treasury Committee , I introduce the Chancellor to London Business School ' s Paolo Surico ' s research on how use public r & D , and especially defence spending , can help we to do that . in the spring statement , the Government use Professor Surico ' s research to upgrade long - term gdp forecast by £ 11 billion a year — that be how we pay for it . I strongly welcome the Government ' s commitment to invest in public r & D in the spending review , but how will the Chancellor follow through to ensure that the R & D will be use to crowd in and stimulate public investment — especially from the more innovative , high - tech start - up and venture capital firm — which be necessary to realise the potential of Professor Surico ' s research ? every £ 1 of Government investment in R & D crowd in £ 2 of private investment and return £ 7 of benefit to the wide economy . that be why we have put £ 86 billion of investment into R & D over the course of this spending review . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be sure that your constituent , my constituent , the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) , and indeed the Chancellor ' s constituent , will greatly welcome the £ 2 . 1 billion for a new tram and a new bus station in Bradford , as well as the billion for social and affordable housing , which be much need . however , the Chancellor will know that over half of all child in my constituency be still grow up in poverty , which be true of many hon . member ' constituency . child poverty be not a statistic ; it be a national disgrace . it be a direct result of 14 year of ideological austerity under the Conservatives . today ' s statement be a step in the right direction , particularly with the announcement that half a million more child will be eligible for free school meal , but frankly it do not go far enough . will the Chancellor tell I what further measure this Government will announce to alleviate and finish child poverty , include scrap the two - child limit , which continue to put thousand of child into poverty ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s welcome for the £ 2 . 1 billion for the West Yorkshire combine authority , which will help pay for mass transit to connect Leeds and Bradford , but also Kirklees and Calderdale . in today ' s statement we be able to provide money for free school meal for 500 , 000 child , lift 100 , 000 out of poverty , as well as continue to roll out breakfast club and the warm home programme , which will help insulate property and bring down bill for million of family . in addition , we have increase the national living wage by nearly 7 % , and the Employment Rights Bill will ensure that more people have security and dignity at work — all part of our plan for change and lift child and family out of poverty . high Speed 2 own vast swathe of the Staffordshire countryside . in fact , it own a third of all the property in the village of Hopton , which be have an enormous impact on resident and cause an enormous blight . could the Chancellor set out for the House , and for so many resident right across Staffordshire , when we will know whether farmer be go to have their land back and whether village will be able to return to normal life , with people move into the empty house ? I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman have apologise to his constituent for the total mess that the Conservatives make of hs2 . we be fix their mess and get a grip of the project cost . frankly , it be astounding for the right hon . gentleman to raise HS2 , give the mess they make of it . after almost 20 year of an SNP Government in Scotland , we have 43 , 000 fifer on an NHS waiting list and a grow gap in educational achievement between kid from the rich and poor area . after less than one year of a Labour UK Government , we be deliver record funding for Scotland , fall energy bill , a pay rise for 8 , 000 fifer , new defence job in Fife and , follow an announcement that will be warmly welcome by my constituent today , new investment in the renewal of Kirkcaldy town centre and the potential of our amazing seafront . do the Chancellor agree that this be the difference a Labour Government can make ? the work that this Labour Government be do will reduce inequality . we be give a pay rise to million of worker and create defence job that pay a decent wage , and GB Energy will be headquarter in Scotland . today I have be able to announce additional investment in the seafront in my hon . friend ' s constituency , which will bring economic benefit . an NHS fit for the future — I congratulate the Chancellor and the Health Secretary on the investment in the health service in England . give the money that have be allocate to Northern Ireland , will the Chancellor encourage the Executive to provide the same investment in the health service in Northern Ireland ? the Executive have be work with single - year budget since 2016 . do the Chancellor agree that this SR allow they to set a multi - year , recurrent budget that allow the transformation of health service and other public service in Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman make a really important point . what we do today be not just set out money for next year ; we have set out money for day - to - day spending for the next three year , and for capital spending for the next five year . wherever people be in the UK , it be vital that local council , the devolve Administrations and community group can plan for the future with confidence . that be what we have do with this spending review , and I urge the devolved administration to do similar and make multi - year settlement in order to give certainty for the future . despite be the lowest - fund unitary authority in the country , we be do everything possible to drive down inequality in the city of York , but the differential have stay at 13 year . today ' s announcement of investment in health , investment in social housing and investment in education will make a real difference for my constituent . however , I worry about the inequality for disabled people in our country . I have look through the statement . will the Chancellor give assurance that if disabled people be unable to work , they will not be leave behind , and that we will ensure that we have the social security they need , so that they , too , can gain from today ' s statement ? part of the investment in the north of England be for the trans - Pennine route upgrade , which my hon . friend and I both welcome . the investment in health and education be important , but so too be support disabled people , which be why £ 1 billion have be set aside in the spending review to help get people back to work . many disabled people be desperate to work , if the right support be available . of course , the social security system and the welfare state must always be there for people who can not work , and under this Labour Government they will be . I hear very little about Somerset , which be face huge pressure on GP practice , affordable home , SEND provision , reliable bus service and access to affordable energy . can the Chancellor promise my constituent that Yeovil will not be overlook , and do she believe that the decision announce today leave Somerset council and Government Departments with enough to properly invest in community in Yeovil ? let I put that right : the people of Somerset will benefit from a 3 % uplift in NHS spending ; the people of Somerset will benefit from free school meal for their child if they be on universal credit ; and the people of Somerset will benefit from strong defence and strong border through the investment that we be make . this be a spending review for the whole country , include people in Yeovil in Somerset . the Chancellor , who visit Birmingham last week , know that the west midland region have the talent and idea to thrive . a fair settlement in today ' s spending review be not just support ; it be a smart investment in Britain ' s future . over 26 , 000 people be on the housing register in Birmingham , so I thank she for double investment in the affordable home programme . I also thank she for the announcement on the midland rail hub investment , which I have be campaign for . do she agree that that will be transformational in deliver a decade of renewal and growth that work for everyone ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . we will build more housing , which be what the investment in affordable home grant will achieve , and that go alongside transport investment — significant transport investment — in the west midland and Birmingham . I be very pleased that my hon . friend join I in Birmingham last week , when we be able to celebrate the investment to extend the Metro out to east Birmingham and then to solihull . I thank the Chancellor for her statement , but I fear that she may have misunderstood the question that my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) ask about the River Thames scheme . he ask whether the scheme be include in the £ 4 . 2 billion tdel — total departmental expenditure limit — over three year reference in paragraph 5 . 121 of the review . the Chancellor reply that my hon . friend want to put up expenditure and will not say where it be come from , but both he and I be ask this : be the Environment Agency ' s half of the River Thames scheme — Surrey county council pay the other half — fund from the £ 4 . 2 billion tdel that she have announce today ? the allocation have be make to Government Departments , and the Treasury be not go to micromanage every scheme , so it will be up to Departments to allocate the money in the way they choose . I be sure that the Transport Secretary will come to the House and set out those plan . the spending review say that there will be a report from the Office for Value for money on temporary accommodation and the terrible waste of money go into poorly procure temporary accommodation . some 90 , 000 child live in temporary accommodation in London . do the Chancellor agree that the £ 39 billion for new , genuinely affordable home , combine with that review of the cost of temporary accommodation , be really positive for all child live in London who , sadly , do not have a permanent home into the future , and do she agree that this will make a transformational change in London ? my hon . friend have speak to I powerfully on many occasion about how much Westminster city council have to spend on temporary accommodation , which be why the investment in affordable home grant be so important — and not just for London , but for the whole country — but there be specific issue . as I say in answer to my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , there be particular challenge in London because of the extraordinarily high house price and rent . this investment in affordable and social housing can have a big impact in London . combine with the additional money for free school meal , the roll - out of breakfast club and the increase in the national living wage , this be a spending review to benefit people across the whole country , include in Westminster and London . Fellow Eastbournian Mark Tonra and I be gravely ill together in the same ward at Eastbourne district general hospital last year . harrowingly , because of the outdated and outgrown hospital building at the DGH , Mark watch from his bay as a patient opposite he die , and other patient watch Mark deteriorate , with only a flimsy curtain to protect his dignity , before he himself die . the delay to our new hospital will mean that many more Eastbournians will face this indignity until it be fully rebuild come 2041 . short of heed my town ' s call to unlock that investment soon , will the Chancellor at least confirm to local family such as Mark ' s and to my NHS trust that her NHS capital expenditure will specifically be able to fund the 98 % unmet cost of our maintenance backlog in Eastbourne to help more patient get the care and dignity they deserve ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for speak powerfully about his experience and the experience of his constituent . after the 14 year and the broken promise of the Conservative party , our hospital be not in a good enough condition . that be why we have set out the new hospital building programme , but it be also why we have put aside money in the spending review for improvement to hospital condition in the meantime . I will make sure that the relevant Health Minister meet he to talk through what that mean for people in Eastbourne . today ' s announcement be a great day for Blackpool , which be mention more than any other place in the country . the Chancellor will know the issue we face from when she join I in Blackpool last year and see for herself the deprivation and the damage that 14 year of the Tories do to our town . will she confirm that this be just the start and the beginning of new investment for deprive area such as Blackpool across the country now that we have a Labour Government and a Labour Chancellor in charge ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and he always passionately argue the case for Blackpool . yes , there be deprivation in Blackpool , but there be also huge opportunity , which be why we be back Blackpool with the investment we be put in through the spending review . why do the Chancellor think it appropriate to pledge £ 50 million on a preferential basis to a sporting organisation that have a political objective as its first and defining attribute , and that have name some of its sport ground and trophy after IRA terrorist who bring such death and destruction to Northern Ireland , while other organisation be require to make do with what they be allocate in 2011 ? do the Chancellor not see and agree that £ 50 million would make a far well contribution to meet the housing need , particularly for social housing , and the sewerage infrastructure need that in my constituency have bring much of the building of new housing to a halt ? what be the priority when matter like that be ignore ? alongside the investment at Casement Park , we have also make record investment , with a record settlement for the Northern Ireland Executive , in the announcement we have set out today . in addition , there be substantial investment in the defence sector , include in Northern Ireland . so there be plenty of money go into Northern Ireland , and it now need to be spend wisely . I commend the Chancellor on her statement , and I pay tribute to she , and to my right hon . friend the Welsh Secretary and all my Welsh Labour colleague for their advocacy in stand up for Wales at this spending review . I particularly welcome the investment in coal tip , which will be really important in constituency across Wales , and in rail , with £ 445 million to turn the tide on 14 year of under - investment by the Conservatives , of whom four be leave on the Opposition Benches . as she be here , can I take this opportunity to ask she whether , give the substantial rail investment that have be announce , she will use her good office to support a campaign in my constituency for Ely Mill station to be build ? now all the stakeholder have the money they need , they can get on with it , can they not ? well , we do announce two new railway station in Wales today with that £ 445 million . in the 10 - year infrastructure strategy , which we publish next week , we will be set out more detail of investment right across the UK . I be pleased that my hon . friend welcome the £ 118 million for the coal tip work , which I know be so important and which so many Welsh Labour mp have lobby I about over the last few month . I be pleased that we can deliver for their community in Wales . I declare an interest as a sit councillor . local government will be pleased to see an increase in spending and to have clarity but , alongside social care , we have no clarity on another area that will sink council : the statutory override on special educational need . that be promise time and again , and we be hang our hat on have it today . will the Chancellor tell we what be happen and can we give security to council on special educational need ? the hon . Lady make a really important point . every single MP in this House will have hear harrowing story of parent desperate to get support for their kid with special educational need . the Secretary of State for Education will be bring forward a White Paper to make the reform that be desperately need . we will make sure that we do that in partnership with the parent and child who be most affected . the Chancellor of the Exchequer may remember that the last conservative Prime Minister boast about move funding from Teesside to Royal Tunbridge Wells . I be pleased to see that her statement plug place such as Stockton North back into our economy . I thank the Chancellor for agree to make Stockton central one of the trailblazer area , invest in our local facility and tackle fly - tipping and graffiti . do she agree that the statement show that our Labour Government be provide job for work people , provide home for work people and provide opportunity for our young people ? I be pleased that Stockton will be benefit from some of those investment , because pride in place be so important for all our community . some of the most deprived part of the country have miss out on funding for too long , which be why we be pleased to be able to rectify that and ensure , for example through the Green Book reform , that money go to where it be most need . first of all , I welcome the fact that , at least in real term , the Northern Ireland budget have be maintain over the spending period , although I would point out to the Chancellor that a 0 . 5 % real increase will not enable the Northern Ireland Executive to match the real increase in spending on health and policing which will be take place in the rest of the United Kingdom . may I emphasise again the preference that she have give in this budget to money for a Gaelic Athletic Association ground ? in blunder into this issue , she have give the Executive a massive financial headache . she require £ 50 million to be match by fund elsewhere . the Executive will be require to find about £ 200 million to make up the deficit , raise expectation and , I believe , create tension within the Executive as a result . I think it be wrong for she to try to interfere in the minutia of spending of the Executive in that way . as a general point , maybe in the autumn many people who welcome the headline today will be regret the tax increase they will face to pay for the announcement today . the announcement today be all within the envelope that I already set out through the tax increase and the change to the fiscal rule in autumn and then the decision in the spring statement . all we have do today be allocate the envelope that we already set out . as I say at the time , public service would now need to live within the mean that we have set at that Budget . this statement do not spend a single penny more or a single penny less than the money that be already allocate . on the specific issue the right hon . Gentleman raise , I be very happy to pass on what he say to the Northern Ireland Secretary and to ensure that there be a meeting between the relevant Minister and the relevant Members of Parliament . I wholeheartedly welcome this statement . it be a true labour package that back Britain and reverse year of declinism under party on the Opposition Benches who seem to have give up on Britain . I particularly welcome the result of the Green Book review , which will get investment into the place that need it most . in that regard , do the Chancellor agree with I that , while big project and city scheme will get the headline , it be vital that the full benefit of renewal be feel in small town like those that make up my constituency of Rossendale and Darwen , and that these previously leave behind place must be at the forefront of our thinking as we develop local transport and infrastructure delivery plan ? my hon . friend be one of many mp who have speak to I about the need to reform the Green Book . I thank he for feed in his concern about the way in which the Treasury have previously look at request for investment . I be pleased for the people of Rossendale and Darwen that we can start make a difference to the community that be forget about for 14 year under the Conservatives . I be also very pleased to be in his constituency at the end of last year to open the 100th banking hub on a local high street . I welcome the Government ' s decision to widen access to free school meal — a long - stand Liberal Democrat policy — but Castlewood primary school in my constituency tell I that it be currently lose 56p for every single meal it provide . will the Chancellor undertake to fully fund school meal , or else be she ask school to choose between teaching and eat ? I be really pleased that what we have set out today will lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty by provide free school meal to an additional 500 , 000 child . real - term funding for school be increase and real - term funding per pupil be increase to ensure that school be able to provide the free school meal and the teaching that our child need . I thank the Chancellor for announcement of the extra funding for crumble school . as we know , school across the country be leave to fail under the 14 year of the previous Government . how can establishment such as Forest high school in my constituency , which be literally crumble day by day and at serious risk of closure , access the vital fund so we can provide the service require by student in the Forest of Dean ? I thank my hon . friend for raise those concern about school in the Forest of Dean and that school in particular . the state that school be in after 14 year of Conservative Government be just not good enough . after what they do in the ' 80 and ' 90 , I do not think that even a Conservative Government would leave school in this state . many mp will be able to talk about example similar to my hon . friend ' s from their constituency . I will ensure that the Department for Education and the Education Secretary hear about the specific case that he raise , because we want to improve the condition that our young child be teach in . I thank the Chancellor for her statement . as well as free people up by tackle the social care crisis , the real way to get the growth we all want be a target for publicly fund social home — albeit , I welcome the funding that have be find for housing — and fund for the infrastructure that community want , which will unlock ten of thousand of home . the Wellington and Cullompton station project be something I raise with the Chancellor last summer . she say at the Dispatch Box that it would be go ahead , because it have start . that project will bring £ 180 million of growth to the Cardiff - Bristol - Exeter corridor and generate hundred of new job . be my constituent right — a genuine question to the Chancellor — to be dismay that there be no mention of any south - west project in the statement today ? last week , we set out additional money for the Mayor of the West of England , and today we have announce a fourfold increase in local transport funding , which will be available for community across the country . the hon . Member say that he want to grow the economy — it be disappointing that the Liberal Democrats vote against the Planning and Infrastructure Bill yesterday , which will do exactly that . I strongly congratulate the Chancellor on the impact she have already have by reform the way the Treasury work , in particular to unlock the capital investment that we need for the future of our economy . I also commend she for her commitment to future generation through her funding for school and the extension of free school meal . will she continue to work with the Treasury to change the way it appraise the benefit of human capital investment to ensure there be sufficient funding , particularly for early intervention in special educational need and disability in local authority like mine in Reading and Wokingham ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the reform we have introduce at the Treasury — the reform to the fiscal rule to unlock money for investment , the reform of financial transaction to enable more money to be spend through public finance institution , and particularly the reform of the Green Book . she be absolutely right to mention the importance of human capital , which be why we have announce in the spending review significant investment in skill and in the early year to ensure that child be ready for school . as the MP for Woking , I represent the most bankrupt and indebted local authority in the country . I be very disappointed , therefore , that it appear that the Chancellor do not mention council or local government once in her statement . I be more disappointed , have listen to the detail of the statement , that the Government be invest only an extra 1 . 1 % in local government next year and the year after . what do the Chancellor say to council across the country and to my constituent in Woking to justify that lack of investment ? this Labour Government be give real - term increase in spending to local authority every year . compare that with the Conservative - Liberal Democrat Administration from 2010 to 2015 that cut real spending by 2 . 9 % every year . I be much happy to stand on my record as Chancellor than I would be to stand on what the Liberal Democrats do when they have a chance at be in government . I thank the Chancellor for listen to the priority of people in my constituency and across the country and invest in our school . it be great to see free breakfast club in action at Baildon Glen and Beckfoot Priestthorpe school recently , and I be delighted to hear today that the Labour Government will be put in some £ 2 . 3 billion to fix our crumble school , have recently visit Eldwick primary school , where pupil be be teach in a temporary building with half the school out of action due to reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . can the Chancellor reassure the pupil at Eldwick that they will finally be able to get back to their classroom ? I thank my hon . friend for the passion with which she speak about school , which be something I very much share . that be why we be roll out breakfast club at primary school and introduce free school meal for all child whose carer be on universal credit ; it be why we be put in real - term increase for school funding and per - pupil funding ; and it be why we be address the terrible situation of child be teach in temporary classroom and crumble school . I will ensure that the Department for Education hear about the experience in Shipley to hopefully ensure that that school be on the list . a woman come to my surgery in Ealing Southall last Friday and show I photo of the one bedroom she share with her four child . the five of they share bed and they live with black mould on the wall . all the kid have be hospitalise , no doubt because of related bronchial infection . it be temporary accommodation , but she have be there 10 year . that be not unusual . do the Chancellor agree that today ' s record £ 39 billion investment in social and affordable home mark an end to conservative austerity and an end their failure to build , and that it will finally give hope to family stick in damp , overcrowded flat in London and across the country ? story like that be exactly why the Deputy Prime Minister and I have prioritise investment in affordable home . nobody should have to live in those condition in the 21st century — and , with the reform we be make and the money we be put in , they will not have to for much long . I thank the Chancellor for her statement today . I welcome all the choice she have make , but especially the investment in Derby and the wide east midland , which will be an enormous boon to my constituent in Erewash . I also warmly welcome her commitment to end the use of asylum hotel in this Parliament . the Tory party let the asylum system get completely out of control . do the Chancellor agree that investment now will result in saving of billion as the system be fix ? the investment we be put into Derby and Nottinghamshire be significant , with small modular reactor , investment in defence and investment in fusion , create good job and pay decent wage right across the east midland . I do not think that taxpayer ' money should be use to pay for asylum hotel , which be why we be reduce the cost of asylum accommodation by around £ 1 billion during the course of this Parliament and end the use of asylum hotel . it be a source of pride to see a Labour Chancellor announce such a transformative programme for social housing . my hope be that the boost to the affordable home programme can be use to unlock stall project like those in Welwyn Garden City , in my constituency , where the Metropolitan Thames Valley development adjacent to the station need to get motor . I thank the Chancellor for her investment today . do she agree that our message to council and housing association be , " we back you — now it be time for you to build " ? the change we have make to the planning system and the change we be make through the Planning and Infrastructure Bill provide the opportunity to build . today , we have back those opportunity with money through the affordable home grant to ensure that a good proportion of social and affordable housing be include in that , for all the reason that hon . member have mention . on the particular issue of housing around station , there be huge potential there . the infrastructure be there — we want to have the housing there , too . I thank the Chancellor for the spending review . local austerity be over — after be a local councillor for nearly a decade , I thank she for that . labour - lead Gravesham council have give thousand of permission for stall brownfield site , many of which be need for the home that we need in Gravesham . I seek reassurance from the Chancellor that this can be support by Homes England to deliver and retain council , social and truly affordable home for our community . I know that there be great need for affordable home in Gravesham . with today ' s spending review , as well as the planning reform we have introduce and continue to introduce — oppose , I think , by all the opposition party — we can get those home build for family in Gravesham . I welcome the huge raft of announcement today , not least the announcement that we will expand free school meal , which will benefit 6 , 500 child in Ipswich . I also want to celebrate the enormous , multibillion - pound green light for Sizewell C . we all know its national importance , from energy security to power 6 million home , but I can not overstate the difference it will make in Ipswich and Suffolk , particularly to our young people , who now have the promise of a skilled , secure and well - pay job . I thank the Chancellor from the bottom of my heart for the investment in my town and county . can she expand on how else the new age of nuclear will benefit our whole country ? the Prime Minister be in Ipswich yesterday with my hon . friend to visit a local college . he come back from that visit even more determined to crack on and build Sizewell nuclear power station in Suffolk because of the impact it will have not just on bring down bill , but on bring good job to Britain — good job through the supply chain — and on give young people their hope and future back , know that they will have good job in the place they live , where they can make a career for themselves and bring prosperity to their family and community . I know that my constituent across Bexleyheath and Crayford will welcome the investment that the Chancellor have announce today for new and affordable housing . the Government have set an ambitious target of 1 . 5 million home , include 88 , 000 across London . to reach those target , we will need investment not just in affordable home , but in new transport infrastructure . project such as the dockland light railway extension to Thamesmead , for example , be forecast to unlock up to 40 , 000 new home in brownfield site across two of the most deprived borough in London . will the Chancellor reaffirm the Government ' s support for this important project and commit to provide funding for it ? as my hon . friend be aware , Bexleyheath and Crayford be a part of the country that I know well . it have huge potential for more home and more investment . we have set a budget for the Department for Transport . we will set out the 10 - year infrastructure plan next week to unlock further investment — both public and private — in housing and transport . one of the first piece of casework that I pick up be from a young woman push she two child through central Wednesbury . we move to the side and she tell I that she be in temporary accommodation , and then she show I the insect bite up her arm . in my council area , there be 21 , 000 people on the housing waiting list and nearly 550 family in temporary accommodation — awful , substandard bed and breakfast , from which it take multiple bus to get the kid to school . will my right hon . friend confirm that our share of the £ 39 billion for council and social housing be come to Tipton and Wednesbury and Coseley , to the Black Country and to the west midland to build the home that our local family need ? it absolutely be . I be delighted to hear the official commitment today to back the midland rail hub . I thank the Chancellor and the Transport Secretary for listen to the , at time , persistent representation in support of this essential project . we inherit a set of engineering plan with no money behind they . now there be a chance to turn they into something real , and that be good news for Birmingham and for the economy of the west midland . at the centre of those work be king Norton station in my constituency . we need the work there to unblock the cross - city line . on a matter of literary heritage , Kings Norton be also the birthplace of Thomas the Tank Engine — the Reverend Awdry live a few yard down the road . would it not be a great tribute if spade could go in the ground for the 80th anniversary next year ? will the Chancellor and her official work with local representative so that we can understand which of those individual project be go to be start first and finally restore king Norton station to its former glory ? I once spend a day at Thomas the Tank Engine world . I hope that the train and the tram line that we be go to be invest in will be a little less talkative and a bit more productive . the reason I mention my hon . friend in my speech today be that he have persistently lobby for the midland rail hub , and we be very pleased as a Government to be able to make that commitment today , which will benefit his constituent and many other as well . today ' s spending review be a great big boost for the defence and life science sector in this country . my constituency of Stevenage be a national hub for both those sector . this morning , I visit the Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult with the Minister of State for Science , Research and Innovation , Lord Patrick Vallance . last week , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Defence visit MBDA to see the storm Shadow missile be fit out for Ukraine . today ' s extra investment will be hugely welcome in my town of Stevenage . young people want those new job . when can they expect to see the benefit of that new investment ? there be huge opportunity in Stevenage , both in life science and in the defence sector , to take advantage of the investment that we be put in — whether that be in research and development or lift defence spending to 2 . 6 % of gdp in the next two year . I know that business , work with their tireless local MP , will make sure that that investment get to Stevenage . a third of child in Bishop Auckland live in poverty , so I welcome today ' s spending review , which set out how they will benefit not just from the free breakfast club , but from the extension to free school meal , warm home , more access to sport and the art , and their parent get the pay rise that they deserve under this Labour Government . but many of those child live in deprive neighbourhood , which have see big cut to social infrastructure over the past 15 year , include the closure of swimming pool , youth club , sure Start centre , boxing gym and the like . I note with interest that , on page 36 , there be a reference to 350 deprive community across the UK receive Government investment . will the Chancellor say more about that , because there be no figure in the spending review . if she can not give a full answer today , perhaps I could engage with her office on this later . this will be a scheme operate from the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . we announce some of the neighbourhood that will benefit from that investment today . this be not something that neighbourhood will have to bid for ; this will go to the community that need it most . the Deputy Prime Minister will be set out in due course all the 350 neighbourhood that will benefit from this investment . under the Conservatives , London ' s housing crisis escalate to dangerous level , with one child in every classroom in temporary accommodation . I warmly welcome not only the £ 39 billion for the affordable home programme , but the 10 - year rent deal , the new low interest loan , and something that I have be push for — I can see that the Minister for Building Safety and Fire have just enter the Chamber — which be equal access to the building safety fund for housing association , so that money can go towards improve condition of home and not to remediation . can the Chancellor outline how this package will tackle London ' s housing crisis , include in my constituency , which be one of the most unequal part , not only of London , but of the country . I thank my hon . friend for that question . it be good to see the Minister in his place to hear it , too . it be really important that , as we invest in the social and affordable housing need both in our capital city and in the whole country , we be invest in the right place . that housing must have the potential not only to provide the home that people need , but to reduce that pressure on local authority and national budget , which , so often , be pick up the cost of previous government who fail to invest in social and affordable home . I , too , warmly welcome the investment in the midland rail hub , which will mean 150 extra train a week through Burton , and the investment in Rolls - Royce , which will produce small modular reactor and nuclear sub that will benefit my constituency and local job . the Chancellor also announce a huge package around transport . she will know that I have be push for improvement on the A50 / a500 and in the infrastructure around Branston bridge . can she say more about when we can expect an announcement on the road investment strategy ? it sound like it be a pretty good day to be an MP in Burton . we be pleased to be able to make those investment in the midland rail hub and in nuclear technology . there will also be additional housing investment that will go into Burton and other place across the country . the allocation have be make to the Department for Transport , and the Secretary of State will set out her plan in due course . we will also be set out more detail in the 10 - year national infrastructure plan next week . fourteen year of the Tories and 18 year of the SNP have leave many scottish high street in desperate need of investment , include those in my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement today of invest in new community fund , bring the total UK Government direct investment in scottish local growth funding to almost £ 1 . 7 billion . will my right hon . friend agree to come to Paisley to see why our high street deserve a slice of that very substantial pie . I thank my hon . friend for that kind invitation . I look forward to be with she in Paisley and Renfrewshire before too long . it be the case that 14 year of Conservative Government and an additional 18 year of SNP Government in Scotland , have leave many community on their back . the investment that we have announce — particularly with their multi - year nature — be about turn those community around , so that more people can have pride in the place in which they live . I welcome the Government ' s announcement of an additional £ 2 . 5 billion in Greater Manchester . this will have a real benefit for my constituency and the town of Heywood , which will get the tram for the first time . what can the Government do , together with the Greater Manchester combine authority , to make sure that we get shovel in the ground as quickly as possible ? I thank my hon . friend for her lobbying ; because of her effort , Heywood will now get that metro station . work together with the Mayor of Greater Manchester , we will ensure that the spade be in the ground quickly so that her constituent can benefit from the additional investment that this Government be put in . it be clear from my right hon . friend ' s statement that she understand Scotland and that she have leave no stone unturned in back Scotland ' s economy . despairingly , her ambition be not match by the SNP Government in Holyrood . will she join I in urge the SNP Government to end their ideological blockade on the defence industry and nuclear industry so that my constituent can finally access the skill , job and prosperity that this Labour Government be invest in ? in the statement today we be able to announce investment for Acorn in Aberdeenshire and for Great British Energy , headquarter in Scotland , as well as substantial investment in defence — £ 11 billion extra by the end of the spending review period — to keep our country and the continent of Europe safe . Scotland and Glasgow have a proud tradition in the defence sector , but our ambition be not be match by the SNP Government . this Labour Government be back defence across the whole of the UK , include Scotland . I thank the Chancellor for listen to I on behalf of Portsmouth resident with her commitment in today ' s review to invest in build British in our defence sector , back our sme , invest in our country ' s security , our Royal Navy base and our NHS , and invest in the education of young people and our public service . a really important issue for my constituent be housing . with the £ 39 billion affordable housing pot and local growth funding target to reach hundred of community , under Labour there be now a real chance of address the housing need in Portsmouth . how can I work with the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister to ensure that this ambitious investment be wholeheartedly embrace by my Lib Dem council , so that it be as ambitious for Portsmouth as we be , and so that we finally see action and much - need home for the people of Pompey ? I think the whole House would pay tribute to the people of Portsmouth and their commitment to our country ' s defence . on affordable housing , through the Planning and Infrastructure Bill and the planning reform we have already announce , we be enable the building of these home . through the £ 39 billon announce today , we be put in money so that we can build social and affordable home . it be disappointing that the liberal Democrats do not back our planning and infrastructure reform , because unless everyone back those , it will be very hard to get Britain build again and to build the 1 . 5 million home that people in Portsmouth and the rest of our country desperately need . I warmly welcome the Chancellor ' s statement and , like my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , in particular the historic £ 445 million investment into rail in Wales . I also echo my hon . friend ' s thank for the tireless representation of our Secretary of State for Wales and our Welsh Labour mps . for my constituency , the investment mean vital funding for Network North Wales to seamlessly connect with Northern Powerhouse Rail , bring we close to realise the ambitious vision of our UK Labour Government , our Welsh Labour Government , and our Labour metro mayor . do the Chancellor agree that it be only with Labour work together that we can truly deliver for the people of north Wales ? we finally have a Labour Government here and in Wales to work together for the people of Clwyd North and across Wales to make those investment , include the significant investment in transport that we have announce today . I pay tribute to all the Welsh Labour mp who have lobby I so extensively to get this investment into Welsh rail . I be leave with no doubt about what the priority be for the people of Wales : transport investment and investment into coal tip safety . I be pleased to have be able to set that out in the spending review . in the age of anger that our opponent seek to exploit , we need a responsibility revolution . this Government have take on that responsibility by take tough decision to stabilise the economy and carry out long - term reform . do my right hon . friend agree that it be her responsible approach , not cakeism 2 . 0 , Trussonomics or Reform ' s fantasy economic , that enable today ' s welcome investment ? the investment will benefit my constituent — in healthcare , the green transition , and the defence investment that will help GE Vernova employ hundred more people in my constituency . we have to make difficult decision last year to put the public finance on a firm footing after the appalling economic management of the Conservatives send interest rate soar and put pension in peril — something that be welcome by the current shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , and that be why he have the word " shadow " at the front of his title . economic responsibility be essential . I set out the envelope for public spending in the Budget last year , and we have allocate that money today — not a penny more , not a penny less . a Labour Government , a Labour Chancellor , and a Labour plan . we have half a million child get free school meal , huge investment into our national health service , job and opportunity close to home , and £ 39 billion for affordable housing . this be fantastic for my community , but do the Chancellor agree that people in Gateshead and Whickham may benefit the most from the change she make to the Green Book , and that it give community like mine huge opportunity for the future ? my hon . friend have be a big advocate of reform to the Green Book , and after set up the consultation in January , we be pleased to be able to announce change today to get more investment into place such as Gateshead and Whickham in the north of England . my hon . friend be also a big champion for free school meal . I be really pleased that in the spending review 500 , 000 more child will get free school meal , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to invest in Britain ' s future , tear up the old rulebook that hold back constituency like mine for too long , but my constituent need to feel the benefit now . we need well transport infrastructure , include the reopening of our train line and more job . can the Chancellor confirm that Blackpool North and Fleetwood will get the attention that the Conservatives refuse to pay it ? Blackpool will benefit from the affordable home programme , free school meal for child and the roll - out of breakfast club . it also stand to benefit from the increase in the local transport grant — a fourfold increase compare with the plan we inherit from the Conservatives . People in my constituency will hugely welcome today ' s statement — not just the investment in public service such as school and the NHS and in new home , but the commitment to investment in transport infrastructure . People in Dartford be sick and tired of live with the terrible congestion cause by the Dartford crossing as well as the collapse Galley Hill Road in Swanscombe . can the Chancellor reassure I that as a result of the spending review not only will family be well off , but Dartford will be help to get move ? in January I give the Government ' s back to the low Thames crossing . we have set out the allocation for the Department for Transport and the 10 - year infrastructure plan . the Secretary of State for Transport will set out more detail in due course . I thank the Chancellor for her statement and for what be a record - break settlement for the Welsh Government to invest in public service in Wales . on Wales , I understand that some Opposition Members might not be happy with the announcement , but my constituent who rely on the north Wales main line to get to work , as well as those of my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) , will be delighted . do the Chancellor agree that investment in rail be about so much more than train and track ; it be about connect people across Wales with opportunity and job ? I thank my hon . friend for make those representation to I and to the Secretary of State for Transport on the importance of well rail connection so that people in Bangor Aberconwy and across north Wales can well access good job and public service . that be why we have put in £ 445 million at the spending review . for the final question , I call Gregor Poynton . hear , hear . I thank everyone for stay . I warmly welcome the Chancellor ' s statement , which show that this Labour Government be invest in Scotland ' s renewal . I particularly welcome the funding allocation for the Acorn carbon capture and storage project , which will unlock billion of pound of private investment and create high - quality job in Scotland . may I ask the Chancellor how the project will create job in my constituency and support site such as Grangemouth to thrive ? after back Teesside and Merseyside for carbon capture and storage last year , we be really pleased today to be able to announce tranche 2 , with backing for both Acorn and Viking . we will crack on and get that investment to Aberdeenshire , as well as the investment that we be put into great British Energy . we know of the huge potential that Scotland have to contribute to those job and industry of the future in energy security , defence and so much more , and that be why we be back Scotland with this spending review . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during Question Time today , the Secretary of State for Wales — I have endeavour to contact she about this — accuse I of unintentionally mislead the House when I raise concern about the reclassification of the east - west Oxford to Cambridge rail line as an England and Wales project , thereby deny Wales its full share of consequential funding . she claim that the previous classification of England - only be merely a conservative publishing error and insist that all heavy rail project would now be classify in such a way — so as to deny funding to Wales . to my surprise , however , the 2025 statement of funding policy still list the Oxford to Cambridge line as England - only . that contradict the Secretary of State ' s assertion and raise question about the accuracy of her comment in the House . what step should I take when I have be accuse of mislead the House yet Treasury document suggest that it be the Secretary of State who have do so ? I thank the right hon . member for give notice of her intention to raise this point of order . the Chair be not responsible for the content of Members ’ speech . however , those on the Treasury Bench will have hear her point of order , and I be sure that the Secretary of State will seek to correct the record if necessary . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the whole House will be appal , as I be , by the grotesque and wanton violence that have afflict Ballymena in my constituency , and appal by the sexual assault of a 14 - year - old girl . there can be no excuse for the result violence . however , the Government must be aware of the underlie tension produce by uncontrolled , and often undocumented , immigration . in that regard , would it be in order to ask that the Government make a statement to the House on what they will do to constrain the flow of migrant who legitimately travel under freedom of movement from one EU country to another — in this case , into the Republic of Ireland — and then pass unchecked from the Republic of Ireland into Northern Ireland ? that have be a contributor — particularly in respect of Romas , it would seem — to the concentration and the result problem . none of that excuse violence , but it be a matter of concern to many . how can I obtain a statement from the Government on how they intend to address that gap in our ability to control who come and go from our own country ? I thank the hon . and learn Gentleman for his point of order . I have have no notice that the Government intend to make a statement . however , those on the Government Benches will have hear his comment , which be now on the record . he will also have an opportunity tomorrow during Business question to raise the matter again . Bill Presented Animal Shelters ( Licensing ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Richard Holden , support by Rebecca Harris , Mr Mark Francois , Dr Neil Hudson , Mr Peter Bedford , Andrew Rosindell , Sir Ashley Fox , Sir Julian Smith , Bradley Thomas , Sir Andrew Mitchell , Dan Carden and Marie Goldman , present a Bill to make provision for the licensing of animal shelter , and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 20 June , and to be print ( Bill 260 ) . Letter Boxes ( Positioning ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend building regulation to require letter box in new building and new front door to be position in accordance with British Standard EN 13724 : 2013 . the Government say that they want to raise standard and focus on delivery , so I have get a perfect Bill for they — the Letter Boxes ( positioning ) Bill . last Christmas I visit the Royal Mail delivery office in Huyton in my constituency . I watch our postie work flat out , and it really hit home how hard they work , whatever the weather and whatever the condition . I ask what I could do to help . they say , " sort out those low - level letter box . " they be worried that one of these day , one of they could get a life - change injury just from do their job . for example , lancaster postie Anthony Quinn lose the top of his finger after a dog lunge through a letter box and bite he . he be just do his job , deliver the post . south London postie Andrew Berge be attack through a letter box by a dog that lock on to his hand and would not let go . he suffer serious damage to his ring finger , and he be just do his job , deliver the post . and Wakefield postie Elaine White lose the top of her finger in a similar attack . the damage be so bad that doctor could not reattach it . that be permanent , life altering , but she be just do her job , deliver the post . during my visit to the delivery office , postie show I scar and injury from dog attack through letter box . member across the House will have hear countless story and first - hand experience from our campaigner about get dog bite while deliver leaflet to low - level letter box . around 1 , 000 of our postie have have their finger partly or fully bite off through a letter box in the past five year . it be clear to I that letter box have reach a new low , and it be time we in this House raise they . when a letterbox be down by someone ' s ankle , any dog can bite , draw blood , or sever a finger or two . and it be not just about dog attack ; low - level letter box force our postie to stoop repeatedly , day in , day out . we have all be there on our leaflet delivery , and as we walk down the path and see a low - level letter box , the heart sink — indeed , the only thing low than the letter box be the mood of anyone who have to use one . our postie have to do that every single day , dozen of time , and many of they get serious back problem and suffer back pain for year as a result of their job . Royal Mail record more than 18 , 000 back - relate injury in just one year . some of those postie be with we in the Gallery today — I thank they for join we , and for all that they do . their union , the Communication Workers Union , have campaign for this change since 1958 . why have it not happen yet ? a recent survey of CWU rep find that 93 % report issue with low - level letter box in new building , and 99 % say that follow the standard propose in this Bill — letter box be 70 cm from the ground — would make a real difference . this be not just about protect worker , though that be reason enough ; it be also about the cost of inaction . in 2022 , back pain alone lead to 154 , 000 lose working day at Royal Mail , cost it £ 16 million , and dog attack lead to NHS treatment , police investigation and court case . I thank the member who have co - sponsor the Bill . it be a change that be support by postie up and down the country and by Royal Mail . I also believe it be support across this House , because in the last Parliament the former Conservative Member for Chelmsford , Vicky Ford , bring forward a similar Bill , which have widespread support , and I pay tribute to she and to the work she do on the issue . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) , who be sit next to I . he be a former postie and CWU regional secretary . I know that this issue can unite we all , because when I ask a question on it some month ago in this Chamber , there be cry of " hear , hear " from across the House . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] that be rare . this should be a simple fix . the current british standard be that letter box height should be at least 70 cm off the ground . right now , that be advisory ; this Bill would make it mandatory . this be not about ask people to change their exist door or letter box . this Bill be just about low - level letter box in new building , both residential and commercial . this Labour Government will build 1 . 5 million new home during this Parliament , and I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement today at the spending review of £ 39 billion to help build new social and affordable housing . however , let we ensure that those home be build right so that postie do not go to work in fear of injury , and let we build they without burden our public service with the cost of those injury . as a Labour Government , we take our duty to look after work people seriously . the Bill will do just that . load of other country , such as Ireland , Portugal and Belgium , have already ban low - level letter box . why be we behind they ? let we catch up with our neighbour on this . let we raise the bar — or height , literally — on letter box . it will save pain , prevent injury and cut cost . it be the right thing to do for the people who deliver our post , be part of our community and look after we day in , day out — and we will never forget the role they play during the covid pandemic . our consideration for our postie ' health and safety at work should be first class . I therefore ask the House to give the Bill its stamp of approval and get it sign , seal and deliver . as a frequent leafleteer in Sussex Weald , I be particularly invest in this piece of legislation . question put and agree to . order , that Anneliese Midgley , Lee Barron , Charlie Dewhirst , Colum Eastwood , Emma Foody , Louise Haigh , Sally Jameson , Joe Morris , Sarah Owen , Laurence Turner , Chris Webb and Michael Wheeler present the Bill . Anneliese Midgley accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 259 ) . sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . on the day when the Chancellor have set out this Government ' s determination to deliver a decade of national renewal , I be proud to stand before this House to make good on our promise to deliver a sustainable aviation sector . if we be once again to be an outward , confident trading nation that be connect to the world and lead the way on innovation , we must run as fast as we can towards a greener , clean future for fly . the Bill before we today will enable we to do precisely that . we do not have time to waste . do the Secretary of State agree that this Bill have a missing half , which could cut aviation emission by demand management , and that at the very least , if there be to be public money spend set up this system , it should be raise from the most frequent flyer and private jet ? I think the hon . Lady and I fundamentally differ on the issue of demand management , because demand for air travel be only go one way , and it be therefore our moral responsibility , if we be go to have more people in the sky , to reduce the carbon emission associate with that . as I say , we have no time to waste . that be why , when it come to aviation , this Government have roll up their sleeve and get on with the job , put an end to the dither and delay of the past . in less than a year , we have approve the expansion of Luton airport and invite plan for a new runway at Heathrow , and I will be make a final decision on Gatwick expansion as soon as possible . we have invest in the future of aviation , not just with the help we have give to reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport or the work we be do to strengthen connectivity around Liverpool John Lennon , but also by put £ 1 billion towards aerospace technology . we have introduce the sustainable aviation fuel mandate and provide £ 63 million to the advanced fuel fund , help the industry prepare for a sustainable future . just last week , we kick - start the large redesign of UK airspace since the 1950 , pave the way for clean flight , few delay and more direct route . this be what govern for growth look like . I really welcome the Bill and the creation of a mechanism to increase the supply of sustainable aviation fuel . can I add that , as we look towards airspace modernisation , we will have not only clean and quick but quieter flight ? my hon . friend be completely right to highlight the benefit of crack on and deliver airspace modernisation . it could mean not only more direct flight and therefore less use of carbon , but noise benefit for community close to airport . we be determined to make rapid progress on this issue because we have an iron - clothe belief that our success as an island nation rest on our international connectivity . the flow of trade , export british expertise and the movement of people for business and leisure all depend on aviation continue to grow and thrive . we could put our head in the sand and pretend that people do not want to fly , that the sector do not support hundred of thousand of job , that people do not look forward to foreign holiday or family reunion and that air freight be not a significant part of our trade by value , but we would be on the wrong side of both reality and public aspiration . the truth be that demand for flight be only go in one direction . accord to the Civil Aviation Authority , passenger level be 7 % high in 2024 than in the previous year . if we do not respond and if we do not set aviation up for long - term success , we do not just make ourselves poor today , we kiss goodbye to the growth and opportunity this country need in the decade to come . I want a future where more passenger can take to the sky , not few . but like the rest of our economy , that must mean emit less carbon , not more . this Bill will help secure that future . it build on the fantastic work across government and industry , lead by my hon . friend the Aviation Minister , which see the SAF mandate come into effect early this year . as we run towards a future of green flight , we know that sustainable aviation fuel be one of the big lever we can pull . it emit 70 % less greenhouse gas on average than fossil fuel . it can be use in exist infrastructure and aircraft engine , and it be now back by a mandate that be rightly ambitious : 10 % SAF in the fuel mix by 2030 and 22 % by 2040 . I want as much as possible to be make in the UK . the mandate , which we welcome , call for only 22 % sustainable jet fuel usage by 2040 , while the Chancellor have say that she want a third runway in use at Heathrow by 2035 . that would mean more aviation - relate health hazard to my constituent . do the Minister agree that we should not pursue Heathrow expansion until we can turbocharge the SAF mandate and bring non - sustainable fuel usage down far ? the Government have be clear that we will permit airport expansion only when it be consistent with our legally bind climate change target . SAF be one way in which we can clean up aviation , but the work we be do on the development of new aircraft technology , alongside the work we be do on airspace modernisation , be all connect to how we bring those emission down . I point out to the hon . Lady that the expansion of Heathrow have already be model in relation to the sixth carbon budget . we have be clear that the mandate alone be not enough . create the demand for SAF but not the supply do not get we where we want to be . we have hear the industry ' s concern around risk and uncertainty for investment , and that be why we be act today . the Bill create a revenue certainty mechanism that will boost SAF production by give investor confidence to choose the UK . I declare an interest as a pilot . in this context , I speak to one of the would - be producer — I think it be call Zero — and its primary concern with respect to the strike price mechanism that the right hon . Lady talk about be how that will be set and what input producer will have . will she address that when she talk through the mechanism ? there be more detailed design work to do on all that , and we will work alongside industry to ensure that we have a workable proposition . the mechanism boost SAF production and give investor confidence in the UK by address one of the big barrier to investment : the lack of a clear , predictable market price for SAF . that start with a guarantee strike price agree between a Government - own counterparty and the SAF producer . if SAF be sell for under that price , the counterparty will pay the difference to the producer . if SAF be sell for above that price , the producer will pay the difference to the counterparty . the revenue certainty mechanism will be fund by industry , specifically through a levy on aviation fuel supplier . that make sense for two reason . first , it be the industry that will benefit from more and cheap SAF production , so it be only right that industry , and not the taxpayer , should fund it . secondly , place the levy higher up the supply chain spread cost across the sector and be the least burdensome option . it be important to note that the revenue certainty mechanism will not be indefinite . it will be target and time - limited , help to get first - of - a - kind UK project off the ground . the Bill ' s sunset clause mean that we can offer contract only for 10 year , unless it be extend via the affirmative procedure . we will have a firm grip on cost throughout . we will decide the number and duration of contract , limit support to a predetermine volume of SAF and negotiate acceptable strike price . there be no obligation on the Government to enter into a define number of contract or to agree contract at any cost . I know that some hon . member may be concern about the impact on passenger , so let I reassure they : none of this will limit people ' s ability to fly . we expect minimal change to fare , with an average ticket increase or decrease by up to £ 1 . 50 a year . I be pleased to say that this be a product of many month of consultation with the industry . airline be call for it , airport be call for it , SAF producer be call for it , environmental organisation be call for it , and the Government be therefore get on with deliver it . I be sure that we wish the Government well in what they be try to do . I gather that the International Air Transport Association highlight only last week that , at the moment , sustainable aviation fuel cost approximately five time as much as conventional jet fuel . will she explain how the measure in the Bill will bridge that gap to make it economical ? supply be constrain at the moment ; the UK have one commercial production facility , in Immingham . we need to build investor confidence to commercialise some of the sustainable aviation fuel demonstration project around the country . More supply and low price be good for the aviation sector and , ultimately , good for those who wish to fly . I think it be worth take a moment to reiterate what be at stake . when UK production of low - carbon fuel be up and run , it could support up to 15 , 000 green job , contribute £ 5 billion a year to our economy , and deliver clean and secure energy . what be more , fulfil the SAF mandate could save up to 2 . 7 megatonne of carbon dioxide equivalent a year by 2030 . seize those opportunity will ensure that we deliver on our bold plan for change and that the UK and our world - class aviation sector be lead the way in the race towards sustainable flight . this country can not be open for business , open to investment and open to growth yet have a closed mind when it come to international connectivity . the Bill be a clear signal that we will not accept false trade - off that pit aviation ' s growth against our commitment to net zero . we can and must do both . we have the opportunity of a lifetime and , I believe , a moral mission to future - proof aviation . when the sector succeed , it be not only a source of growth , through trade , business and tourism , but a source of joy , aspiration and opportunity . it be as vital today as it will be for future generation . their need to fly , explore the world and do business require we to act now . that be what the Bill do , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let I begin by set out an unambiguous truth : aviation be vital to the british economy . it be a cornerstone of our national infrastructure , our competitiveness and our connectivity . when it come to the impact of aviation on our economy , the figure speak for themselves . aviation contribute £ 52 billion to UK GDP , support over 960 , 000 job across the country . that include 341 , 000 people work directly in aviation — from air traffic controller to aerospace engineer — 350 , 000 job in the supply chain , and another 269 , 000 support through consumer spending . aviation also deliver nearly £ 8 . 7 billion in tax revenue , and aerospace manufacturing add a furth £ 9 billion directly to GDP , plus over £ 10 billion more when include its supply chain . some 197 million passenger and 2 million tonne of freight move through our airport each year . the economic case be therefore unanswerable . in short , we must all support this thrive industry with clear benefit to the country . the conservative party have always recognise the strategic importance of aviation , but , unlike the current Government , we understand the damage that can be do with poor policy choice — I regret to say that we have see plenty of that from the Labour Government over the past year . alongside their national insurance job tax , which be put pressure on business and threaten to leave work people £ 3 , 500 a year bad off , Labour ' s decision to hike air passenger duty threaten the vitality of this thrive industry . the Office for Budget Responsibility confirm that rise plan by the Chancellor of the Exchequer will raise an extra £ 555 million in taxis over five year , push up the cost for business and passenger alike . in a speech that will have a lot of common ground with the Secretary of State ' s speech , I regret to say that Labour ' s handling of its profess desire to expand aviation raise more question than answer . the decision to approve a second terminal at Luton airport , which we support , will be judicially review . the proposal for a second runway at Gatwick have be kick down the road for surprising reason , to say the least , and the suppose support for a third runway at Heathrow be no more credible . the Chancellor have promise that the latter proposal will be operational by 2035 , with spade in the ground in this Parliament , but that ambition look very far - fetched , and there be substantial logistical and financial barrier to its construction . so far , the Government have provide no solution on those point , so we will watch development in the next few week with considerable interest . it be against that backdrop that we come to the Bill before we . when we enter opposition , we make it clear that we would not oppose the Government just for the sake of it . we make it clear that where the Government ' s choice would benefit the country or the economy , we would welcome they . that be why we will not seek to divide the House on this legislation on Second Reading . this Bill be a logical follow - on from the statutory instrument pass in September last year that establish the SAF mandate , the first stage of which come into effect in January . have mandate that airline will be require to use a specified percentage of SAF — 2 % this year , rise to 10 % in 2030 and 22 % in 2040 — it be logical to take step to ensure adequate level of locally produce fuel . while the mandate require the consumption of SAF , it be a new technology , and its production carry a high risk for investor . encourage the development of the plant require to produce this fuel be the purpose of this Bill and , to a very large degree , it be a continuation of the policy of the previous Government . in 2023 , it be the last government who commit to an industry - fund revenue certainty mechanism to support UK - base SAF production . in early 2024 we publish the detail , with plan for a guarantee strike price model to give price certainty to SAF producer . I hear the Minister say , " you didn ' t do it ! " he be completely correct , because unfortunately there be something call a general election that follow shortly after . as the Secretary of State have outline , under this model , producer will be top up when the market price fall below a guarantee strike price ; when the market price rise above , they will pay it back . the system mirror the successful contract for difference model in offshore wind , and the economic benefit could be considerable . a cost - benefit analysis produce by the Department for Transport before the general election suggest that the SAF industry could add more than £ 1 . 8 billion to the economy and create more than 10 , 000 job in the country , but , more fundamentally , SAF be a product of what we know to work . as the Secretary of State say in her speech , it can be blend with conventional Jet A - 1 , use in exist aircraft and refuel at exist airport . the capability exist . the challenge be not scientific ; it be economic . that be why the concept of a revenue certainty mechanism be one of the six pillar in the previous Government ' s jet zero strategy , and , as the Secretary of State outline , the introduction of a revenue certainty mechanism have wide support in the aviation industry . let I be clear : while we will not oppose the legislation this evening , we will carefully scrutinise it as it progress through the House . in that spirit , I will put some question to the Minister , which I hope he will address in his sum up . the first be about passenger . in the press release announce the Bill , the Government say that the revenue certainty mechanism would keep ticket price change minimal : " keep fluctuation to £ 1 . 50 a year on average . " the Secretary of State say the same in her speech . perhaps in his speech the Minister could outline what this figure be base on . do the Government stand by it ? be it a commitment , or a rough estimate ? the second question be about what type of SAF the Government favour and how it will be produce . while the SAF mandate permit the production and use of hydroprocessed ester and fatty acid SAF in the early year of the mandate , and also contain a small but increase requirement for power - to - liquid SAF in later year , the bulk of the SAF to be develop and use under the term of the mandate be second generation SAF , which be to be make from municipal waste , non - edible crop and woody biomass . the UK be a small island , with insufficient spare land to enjoy self - sufficient food security or to grow new forest at scale . do the Minister think we will be self - sufficient ? if not , what proportion of the ingredient necessary for make second generation SAF do the Minister think we will need to import ? relatedly , the HEFA cap come into force incrementally from 2027 , despite there currently be no domestic production of second generation SAF in the UK and low level of second generation SAF produce globally , remove the opportunity to source mandate volume through import . this risk make the cost of hit SAF mandate target very high indeed , because supplier will soon be force to buy out of their mandate obligation — a significant cost that will be pass on to the airline and , ultimately , to passenger without deliver any decarbonisation benefit at all . will the Government consider revise the timeline for phase out HEFA SAF to bring they more in line with the timescale for domestic second generation SAF production , in order to minimise the cost for passenger ? the next area of interest be plan . the plant in which the Government be seek to encourage investment will be large , and — as the Minister no doubt know — large development tend to attract a lot of local opposition , often lead to planning inquiry , judicial review , vast expense and year of delay before any construction work begin . if this do not change , the revenue certainty mechanism may not be sufficient to attract investor , so what will the Government do to minimise delay in the planning process ? I turn now to timescale . when will the first contract be award under the RCM ? will there be a timetable for reach full mandate compliance ? as my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) — who be no long in his place — touch on , the issue of the strike price be critical to the success of the proposal . what criterion will be use to set the strike price ? will the methodology be publish , and will there be regular review ? finally , will the Government commit to regular reporting to Parliament on industry take - up , production capacity and cost trajectory , to ensure that they remain accountable for the Bill over time ? the importance of this Bill be clear . back UK production of sustainable aviation fuel be necessary if we be to meet our net zero goal without undermine the competitiveness of the aviation sector . however , let I be clear : as the Bill move through the House , we will continue to look closely at the detail and press for change where necessary , where improvement can be make to ensure that the scheme deliver on its promise . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I start by thank the Secretary of State for Transport for her speech . I also thank she and the Aviation Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , for come to speak to the Transport Committee early this year about aviation and , of course , wide matter . I welcome the introduction of the Bill , and I be pleased to hear the remark of the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) . the Bill will play an important role in our work to decarbonise our aviation sector . some 7 % of domestic greenhouse gas emission come from domestic and international flight , and it be estimate that this figure will increase to 11 % by 2030 and 16 % by 2035 . we all know the huge challenge involve in decarbonise aviation , and this Bill be a much - need step towards address they . I be glad that the Government be take action , and I know that many in the industry want to ensure that the Bill be operational as soon as possible . as I be sure the Transport Secretary will appreciate , I have a few question about the Bill , which I be sure will also be raise at later stage of its progress . however , I start by say that it be rare to find a Bill on which there be so much agreement ; every major airline I have meet have mention its support for SAF , and there be widespread agreement that we need a price certainty mechanism . that be a sign that the Government have be pragmatic , work with business and — in the case of SAF — work to ensure that we have domestic capacity here in the UK . I be glad that the Bill will start to move we away from our dependency on import fossil fuel , particularly for aviation . this House may forget that our reliance on foreign fossil fuel mean that in 2022 , we have to spend more than £ 35 billion bail out our energy market . that reliance leave we reliant on the whim of autocratic regime across the world . we need to move away from that costly model and , in turn , bring investment into our region , growth to our economy and much - need tax revenue to our Treasury . I be glad that the UK Government be work to make sure that we continue to lead on decarbonisation and to reduce our carbon emission in line with the Paris agreement . I want to touch on the nature of the SAF we will be use . first and second generation saf be make from waste — the first from used cooking oil predominantly , and the second from waste such as household black bin bag waste . where do the Government see that waste come from in the future ? how do that tie in with our effort to reduce our residual waste , particularly black bin bag waste , and wide effort to reduce the non - recyclable waste that we produce ? be a large part of our household waste not already go to waste - to - energy plant , provide electricity that we depend on ? there be a lot of support for SAF in America and , as with ethanol , it offer a huge chance for large - scale agricultural business to profit from the sale of their waste and their oil . ethanol be often produce in the same plant as SAF . in seek to secure UK domestic production of SAF , what could the challenge of the US - UK trade agreement mean for our biofuel industry and its ability to transition to produce SAF ? have the Department model the economic and environmental impact of provide resource for second generation SAF ? what be the timescale to bring on third generation SAF ? one issue that have be raise with I be whether company look at produce SAF will be able to enter negotiation with the Government before the Bill reach the statute book . I understand that that have be the case for the mechanism for renewable energy project , where negotiation begin early to ensure that the investment be lock in . we need to see change in aviation to meet our ambitious climate goal . now that aviation and shipping be include in our carbon budget , those change be even more important , and I hope that the Government will also look beyond SAF when think about decarbonise aviation . SAF be not and will not be the silver bullet solution to the sector ' s responsibility to this country ' s decarbonisation strategy . my hon . friend , like I , represent a west London constituency . Brentford and Isleworth be very close to my constituency of Ealing Southall . she will know that while our constituent support the work towards a more sustainable air industry , they also want to see work to reduce the noise we hear in west London from the airline industry . do she agree that the airline industry must also look at new , quieter plane and airspace modernisation for those community ? my hon . friend and neighbour be absolutely right , and I know that the plane and engine manufacturer be continue to work — as they have do for decade , to be fair — on quieter and less polluting aircraft . sometimes there be a tension between those two . airspace modernisation will not make a lot of difference to my constituency in term of land aircraft , but overall airspace modernisation will play a part in reduce emission and flight time for passenger . as I have say , SAF be not and will not be the silver - bullet solution to the problem of aviation ' s responsibility for decarbonisation . the Climate Change Committee warn Parliament in 2023 that rely on SAF alone be " high risk " . for example , Heathrow airport be already the single great source of carbon emission in the UK , and the current plan for expansion would add an extra 8 to 9 megatonne of carbon dioxide a year . if the government do expand Heathrow , other airport across the UK will have to make cut to ensure that aviation do not breach its carbon target . furthermore , continue increase in aviation emission will have to be offset against significant cut in emission in other sector . I should like to hear from the Transport Secretary what the Government be do to address that particular challenge . when the Transport Committee consider SAF during the last Parliament , we find that it have " significant potential " , and I know that there be support throughout the House for we to reduce carbon and other greenhouse gas emission from aviation . as Chair of the Committee , I also know how widespread support across the sector be for decarbonisation , and that many private company be already way ahead in prepare for the future . this country need to stay ahead of the game internationally , and I be glad that by introduce the Bill the Government be show their commitment , invest in UK industry , and show that the UK can be a leader on sustainability . I thank the Secretary of State for her speech , and congratulate the Aviation Minister on the Bill . the challenge face the aviation sector — as with our entire economy — be decarbonisation . reach net zero by 2050 be essential , and give the scale of the scientific and technical challenge , it be clear that decarbonise aviation will not be easy . sustainable aviation fuel have an important role to play in this effort . we consequently welcome the establishment of a SAF revenue certainty mechanism , which have long be call for by many in the aviation industry and which , as we have hear , be vital to ensure that the SAF mandate be both feasible and achievable for airline . provide SAF producer with a guarantee level of revenue will be key to unlock investment in the sector — which , I think , answer some of the question pose by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) . it will help to stimulate private capital at this early stage , and will support the UK ' s ambition to become a global leader in SAF development and production . the growth of the industry also have the potential to generate job and economic activity across the country . however , while my party support the Bill , there remain important question , regard in particular the scrutiny of the mechanism , international alignment , and the wide strategy for aviation decarbonisation . the Bill set out the broad principle for the revenue mechanism , but leave much of the detail to secondary legislation and ministerial discretion . that is , to a degree , understandable — the early stage of SAF technology and the uncertainty in market development mean that flexibility be crucial and necessary — but the Government must ensure that Parliament have an adequate opportunity to scrutinise the development of the mechanism , and the SAF sector more broadly . give the importance of SAF to achieve net zero in aviation , it be vital that the House be update regularly on progress in the industry , and on whether any adjustment to the mechanism be necessary . that be especially important in the light of previous Government promise to kick - start the domestic SAF industry — promise that have yet to materialise . in 2022 the Conservatives promise to have five commercial SAF plant up and run by 2025 , but , as so often , they fail to deliver . I will therefore be push in Committee for the Bill to increase the level of ongoing scrutiny . it be also crucial for the UK to work collaboratively with international partner on net - zero aviation technology . currently , the criterion for both what qualify as SAF and what level of different technology should be use differ between the UK and the EU , with each jurisdiction prioritise different fuel type at different time . give the inherently international nature of the aviation sector , close regulatory alignment with the EU and other key partner be essential to foster growth in the industry and ensure that there be sufficient level of SAF production internationally to support the transition . the Government must therefore work more closely with the EU and other to ensure that our framework dovetail . finally , while we welcome this Bill , it be important to acknowledge that SAF alone will not be enough to decarbonise aviation , as the Chair of the Transport Committee make clear . although SAF can significantly reduce the carbon intensity of air travel , flight use SAF will not be carbon neutral , so many of the necessary emission reduction to reach net zero will need to come from other area . by the Government ' s own estimate , SAF could cut emission by 6 . 3 million tonne of co2 equivalent by 2040 . that be not insignificant , but give the project growth in passenger number , it would represent only a 0 . 8 % reduction in overall aviation emission compare with today . while the Lib Dems support the Bill , we continue to urge the Government to take more ambitious action to decarbonise the aviation industry . with plan for airport expansion still on the table , the Government must clearly articulate how net zero aviation will be achieve by 2050 . I thank the Secretary of State and the Aviation Minister for their engagement while bring forward this legislation . this Bill be vital not only to meet our national climate commitment , but to ensure strong regional economic growth , such as in my constituency of North Somerset , where Bristol airport , a beacon in the UK ' s transition to sustainable aviation , be locate . Bristol airport have long demonstrate real leadership in this space . in March 2021 , it become BP ' s first UK customer to receive a supply of sustainable aviation fuel . in March 2024 , nearly a year before the Government ' s mandate , Jet2 begin operate flight from Bristol airport use a blend of sustainable aviation fuel , reduce the emission that these flight generate by an astounding 70 % . in recognition of the airport ' s leadership in this area , in December this Government make the very wise decision to appoint it to the jet zero taskforce , where it will be able to share its year of experience and expertise with the group . the leadership and vision show by institution such as Bristol airport be not just laudable , but necessary , if we be to reach net zero by 2050 . aviation have be a domestic economic success story in recent decade . it now contribute £ 40 billion to the UK economy annually , include £ 20 billion in export , and support over half a million job across the country . with over 60 % of the member of this House have 500 or more constituent who work in aerospace , aviation or the wide supply chain , I will not be alone in recognise how vital it be for the economic future of our country to ensure that this industry remain a success . however , the ugly truth be that the sector account for around 7 % of the UK ' s total emission , and if we be to decarbonise the aviation industry while ensure that fly remain affordable and accessible , it be to innovation such as sustainable aviation fuel and hydrogen in aviation that we must turn . as the sustainable aviation fuel mandate begin to ramp up demand in the year to come , domestic production will sadly continue to lag behind , so this Bill ' s revenue certainty mechanism be essential . learn from the success that contract for difference have lead to for renewable , the revenue certainty mechanism will unlock the UK ' s production by provide certainty for investor , and could see up to 60 , 000 skilled and well - pay job create by 2050 . my constituent in North Somerset will welcome the news that the Government continue to balance the need to support regional economic growth with meet our net zero commitment , and I look forward to see the local job and clean sky that this Bill will deliver in the year to come . the UK have a real opportunity to lead the world in the production of sustainable aviation fuel , and this Bill aim to provide the investment certainty need to scale up domestic saf production and achieve just that . my constituency be locate a stone ' s throw from London Luton airport . it be a rapidly expand regional airport , and that expansion will bring with it huge economic benefit , include job for thousand of my constituent and well connection for business and leisure . indeed , airport expansion will help to bring million of people to the Universal UK theme park — which I have to mention every time I stand up — and play a key role in drive local economic growth . but just as it be important to support the growth of airport such as Luton , it be important that expansion happen as sustainably as possible to ensure that we get as many of the benefit , and as few of the harm , as possible . this be the subject of a current Environmental Audit Committee inquiry , which I be pleased to secure , investigate how the Government can deliver airport expansion while meet their legally bind climate target . some , such as the Climate Change Committee , say that it be not possible , and the Government need to square that circle . with around 7 % of greenhouse gas derive from aviation in the UK , we should not underestimate the challenge , but it be clear to I that sustainable aviation fuel be an important piece of the jigsaw . in my constituency of Mid Bedfordshire , Cranfield University and local industry be already work at the cutting edge of develop new technology in this area . I have hear from they and other expert about the potential of British - make sustainable aviation fuel . I have even learn about second - generation SAF — not something that I think I would get into this time last year — which turn the waste we all put in our black bin every week into the fuel that power we to adventure abroad . that be a remarkable thing , and I be glad to have learn about it since come into the House . if we get sustainable aviation fuel right , we can create and support thousand of highly skilled job in place such as Cranfield . do more to stimulate the development of sustainable aviation fuel be an obvious route to economic growth , so will the Minister reflect on our global market position , explain how the mechanism compare with other approach , and give an assurance that the measure in the Bill will be enough to avoid the UK aviation industry need to import SAF from abroad ? it would be a huge miss opportunity to later find that this mechanism and related policy have not be ambitious enough , leave foreign country to benefit from domestic mandate . one thing that strike I immediately as worthy of more thought — the Minister may wish to comment — be black bin waste . take waste that be head to landfill and instead use it to power we into the sky would seem to be a simple way forward , although whether there be enough of it be another matter . I declare my interest as a Central Bedfordshire councillor , but will the Minister consider the merit of include , in this Bill or elsewhere , a requirement for the Secretary of State to provide local authority with guidance on how they can take advantage of this opportunity to help in the national effort to scale up production ? unless it be financially prohibitive for they to do so , would it not be sensible and pragmatic to let they use our household waste in this way , rather than let it head to landfill or local incinerator ? finally , I have a few question for the Minister on the cost of aviation travel . as we all know , time be tight for many of our constituent . UK air passenger duty be the world ' s high tax levy on airline passenger , and follow the autumn Budget , the OBR forecast that it will increase 9 % a year on average to a whopping £ 6 . 5 billion in 2029 - 30 . on top of that , it be estimate that the impact of the Bill through the levy and administration cost will raise the cost of a ticket to travel . I know minister say that it be a modest increase , but that be why some may prefer the Government to use an alternative funding mechanism , such as the industry ' s contribution to the UK emission trading scheme . I be not say that the Government should take that approach , but it would be worthwhile for they to explain why they have take the approach they have . reflect on the fact that the cost of the Bill come on top of the increase to air passenger duty in the autumn Budget , will the Minister provide an assurance that the Bill will not clobber our hard - work constituent with yet high price when they jet off on their family holiday ? I refer the House to my business interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as a proud advocate of UK aviation , I be pleased to speak in support of the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill , and I add my thank to the Aviation Minister for his determination in support of UK aviation and to the Secretary of State for her leadership . by back industry with a revenue certainty mechanism , the Bill will turbocharge the production of UK SAF , reduce reliance on import and generate job up and down the country . as one of the most carbon - intensive and hard - to - decarbonise form of transport , aviation be vital to get right . alternative and sustainable aviation fuel will help we to safeguard the future of our planet , because without a decarbonised aviation sector , there will be no net zero . decarbonising will ensure that future generation can enjoy the opportunity that air travel bring without compromise the health of our planet . it will ensure that our regional economy continue to benefit from the growth that the aviation sector can offer , such as the whopping 6 , 000 job that East Midlands airport support . in Derby , we be already make bold stride towards our net zero future . I be proud that Rolls - Royce move quickly to confirm the compatibility of its long - haul aircraft engine , in both the wide body and business jet sector , with 100 % SAF usage . the Derby factory will continue to play a significant role in shape the future of aviation decarbonisation for year to come . we recognise that decarbonisation will not be without its challenge . sustainable aviation fuel offer a practical and innovative solution to those challenge , with SAF make from waste emit a staggering 89 % less carbon than burn conventional jet fuel . this be what the SAF Bill recognise . it be a bold and necessary step forwards to secure a sustainable net zero future for aviation . I be proud to support it . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the future of aviation , travel and aerospace , I very much welcome this step to push the aviation industry into a sustainable future . I encourage member to join the APPG and come along to our meeting if they want to find out more about sustainability and the future of aviation . I work in the aviation industry for 16 year before be elect to this place , and I study aeronautical engineering for four year before that , so it would have be remiss of I not to come to the Chamber today to share with hon . member my expertise on the subject , but I will try not bore they . I welcome the support for future technology and the investment previously announce by the Government . we have massive and historical expertise in aviation here in Great Britain and Northern Ireland and we really must grasp the opportunity to develop those skill and that technology far . it be an incredible opportunity for UK plc and we need to grasp it . I want to pick up on a comment by the Secretary of State in her opening speech about airspace modernisation , because it be relevant to the discussion . we must grasp the opportunity of airspace modernisation , which have the potential , as she mention , to deliver short , more direct and more efficient flight route . but as mp , we must engage with the process . we must understand and learn about how that be happen around we . it be inevitable , but we must get the good for our community . we must understand and engage with that process as it go along . it be an incredible opportunity . over the past few month , the APPG have be hear about the technology that we have today . of particular interest be ZeroAvia , which be already fly a hydrogen - electric , zero - emission aircraft in the UK — it have a hydrogen fuel cell with electrical propulsion , which offer completely zero - emission flight . as my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) mention , this be only a stepping stone to the truly zero - emission flight that we really need to capture . if hon . member will forgive I for bore they slightly , the Breguet range equation that I learn about for my degree be the reason why an Airbus a380 will take off from London at 580 tonne and land in Sydney at around 340 tonne . the burning of fuel throughout the journey mean that it be able to maintain the range and maintain the flight level that the burning of the fuel and the reduction in the weight require . that be one reason why liquid fuel will almost always be require for very long - haul flight , no matter how far we progress with hydrogen and electrical power plant for short and medium - haul flight . that amplify the need not just for the current second - generation SAF production , but for look at alternative fuel source such as algae - derive SAF . other have correctly make the point about the reduction in residual waste , which be the current fuel source for a lot of biodiesel for the development of SAF . as those source decrease and the cost potentially increase , we need to look at truly zero - carbon source of SAF . I will not bore hon . member more . in closing , I will just echo the word of my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon and of my party and encourage the Minister to go far and fast to achieve truly zero - carbon and low - noise aviation technology so that we can continue to enjoy the incredible freedom and opportunity in both economic activity — job , skill and trade — and the broaden horizon that aviation have offer we for more than a century . long may it continue . order . I will now announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the draft Contracts for difference ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2025 . the Ayes be 350 and the Noes be 176 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] since enter this place almost a year ago , I have be proud to be a part of the campaign lead by my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) to reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport and unleash the economic potential of the surround land as a hub for sustainable aviation . our airport be a source of pride for all of we in Doncaster and South Yorkshire . we all eagerly anticipate the first flight for holidaymaker , but also — perhaps more importantly — we be look forward to the high - skill , high - wage job that the airport will bring , and not just for people in Doncaster and South Yorkshire today , but for young people for generation to come . that be why my right hon . friend the Members for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) and for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough ( John Healey ) , my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) and I , along with Mayor Ros Jones and Mayor Oliver Coppard , and indeed the whole of South Yorkshire , be delighted that this Labour Government back £ 30 million of devolve funding into our airport . I thank the Secretary of State for Transport and the Minister with responsibility for aviation for their support in our airport , our area and our potential . a government who prioritise growth must ensure that it be place base and feel in every corner of the country . I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for give way and for what she have say today . do she agree that there be real potential for farmer to contribute by support feed stock from winter crop , create a circular environmental economy that help the local economy to grow far with new kind of job , include for people who live in rural area ? I absolutely agree . the Bill be not just about the small , narrow element of sustainable aviation ; it be about what every industry across the country can do in the shared endeavour to make our aviation sustainable . if this government ' s growth agenda be to be a success , it must be feel in every corner of the country , include Doncaster and South Yorkshire , and I be pleased that with our airport investment and the backing from the Prime Minister — reiterate just today by the Chancellor — this Government have prove that they will do just that . as the Secretary of State say , low - carbon fuel could support up to 15 , 000 job and contribute £ 5 billion to the economy by 2050 . the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill be a promising boost to our ambition in Doncaster to create a sustainable aviation hub link to our airport , prove , despite what some on the Opposition Benches may say , that the green agenda and the sustainability agenda be firmly weave into — and be , in fact , essential to — the regeneration of area that have often be forget , such as mine , and to the industry of the future , good job for young people and the security of the nation . the Bill ' s revenue certainty mechanism will widen opportunity for innovator , entrepreneur and producer of fuel , propel our aviation industry to world - class level and help we to become world leader in an emerge market that will benefit our economy , our industry and our climate . perhaps most importantly , this critical infrastructure be sorely need in Doncaster , and indeed across the country , to bring about the high - skill , high - wage job for my constituent and for young people across South Yorkshire . I know that our airport will champion the Government ' s aviation fuel ambition , as will I . the SNP welcome the Bill , which will support the expand use of sustainable aviation fuel . we view that as an important action among the range of action that be need to meet our legal and — most importantly — moral obligation to reduce carbon and support global effort to tackle climate change . my constituency have already play an important role in the use of SAF , with RAF Lossiemouth be the first Air Force base to use a SAF fuel blend for routine operation , for both the Poseidon submarine hunter and the Typhoon squadron operate with a SAF mix . the RAF have also conduct demonstrator flight with 100 % SAF - fuel aircraft , and refuel jet in the air with SAF . indeed , Group Captain Sarah Brewin , the station commander at RAF Lossiemouth , have state : " the use of sustainable aviation fuel represent a significant milestone in the RAF ' s journey towards help mitigate against climate change . by integrate sustainable practice into our operation , we be not only enhance our ability to protect the nation and deliver excellence on operation , but also contribute to a more sustainable future for generation to come . " I welcome the fact that the RAF have some ambitious target to reduce its aviation carbon emission . inverness airport , publicly own by Highlands and Islands Airports Ltd and responsible to the Scottish Government , have offer SAF to operator since 2023 — a vital piece of work towards the Scottish Government ' s deliberately ambitious goal of create the world ' s first net zero aviation region by 2040 . offshore supply flight be one of the most promising part of our aviation sector for SAF potential . with Scotland have the lion ' s share of these flight from Aberdeen airport , it be vital that we see investment in SAF production in Scotland . Aberdeen airport , operate by AGS Airports , have supply SAF since 2022 , help offshore industry to reduce their emission . in 2021 , one of the first fully - saf helicopter flight in the UK take off from Aberdeen airport . BP be work with Bristow Helicopters to ensure that flight to BP platform have use a SAF blend for more than two and a half year . Scotland have an immense saf production potential . the Bill alone be insufficient to see we reach that potential , but it be an important part of that . Scotland ' s SAF progress have be hold back by the inaction of successive UK government on fund the scottish carbon capture , usage and storage cluster . the CCUS cluster be , in turn , integral to the investment in SAF production at Grangemouth . industry body Sustainable Aviation find that a UK SAF industry could deliver £ 2 . 9 billion annually to the UK economy , and create more than 20 , 000 job . it be vital that , with long - overdue funding finally confirm today — something that the SNP have campaign on for over a decade — the full detail be rapidly make clear and that pace be far inject into the process if that overdue cash be to be convert to construction and processing . my SNP colleague and Transport Secretary in the Scottish Government have put in place an expert work group on sustainable aviation fuel to exploit the potential for the scottish economy . I have cover our broad welcome for the Bill , but there be one area that the Government must address , which be ensure that feedstock be come from sustainable source . we welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment on further design work in the process and we will see that come through in the passage of the Bill . however , the Government must set out how they plan to manage the sourcing of sustainable aviation fuel feedstock , so that the waste hierarchy be adhere to , and that exist business be not damage by the introduction of the revenue certainty mechanism . the most obvious illustration of this be the potential use of high - quality wood as one potential feedstock for SAF production . some member , but I suspect not all , will be aware that current demand for wood will outstrip supply by 2035 . it will be obvious to everyone that it take more than 10 year to grow a forest , so there be a real and well - articulate concern from organisation such as the Wood Panel Industry Federation and the many sawmill operator throughout the UK . the UK wood panel industry currently supply 65 % of the UK ' s demand for wood panel product , utilise 25 % of the annual roundwood harvest basket and 25 % of the annual waste wood basket . fully 10 % of the UK economy utilise wood panel product and , again , it will not be lose on the Government that , in order to achieve a 1 . 5 million new home target — something the SNP welcome , give our own substantial success in social and affordable housing build in Scotland — protect and grow wood supply will be absolutely vital . the eligibility criterion for the SAF mandate stipulate that feedstock material must be waste that can not be prevent , reuse or recycle in accordance with the waste hierarchy . while the mandate acknowledge the waste hierarchy , which in principle would prioritise the use of waste wood for recycle before energy recovery , it be not clear how it will be monitor and enforce , leave supply of waste wood vulnerable to be use in SAF , against the eligibility criterion . there be a risk that the introduction of a revenue certainty mechanism will incentivise producer wish to use this essential raw material for SAF production . there will be time during the passage of the Bill for Ministers to mitigate this risk and address this issue across the Departments involve , of which there be several . I particularly hope that the Deputy Prime Minister ' s responsibility for housing will help to focus ministerial and wide departmental mind on ensure that the final iteration of the Bill support sustainable SAF feedstock . there be many good way to manufacture SAF , and there be some bad one . let we get the mix right in this Bill . I welcome this tremendous legislation , which come not a minute too soon after the previous Government self - admittedly sit on their hand . the Bill will enable the essential move to the production of british sustainable aviation fuel , and I put on the record my thank to the ministerial team and official for bring the Bill forward and for their answer to my extensive write question . unless it be the will of the House to cry for the end of aviation as a practice , it be imperative that we back the sustainable use of biofuel , municipal waste , cover crop , ethanol , and even carbon dioxide straight out of the atmosphere , for aviation fuel . the mandate provide a modest progression for the aviation industry towards incorporate this fuel into its mix . we have genuinely world - lead research and development on Teesside , such as through Project Speedbird and Lighthouse Green Fuels . the green shoot of industry there must be support by Government to enable their outcome . both airline and airport recognise the environmental and economic imperative of build a domestic saf market . they understand that rely on import to meet the mandate increase cost and introduce risk to our energy security , aviation resilience and national competitiveness , and there be the geopolitical risk of expose ourselves to a cheap chinese market . we shamefully see the previous Government be willing to do that , as expose by the hundred of job now on the line at Alexander Dennis in my constituency due to aggressive state - subsidise chinese industrial practice capture an incrementally increase share of the british bus manufacturing market . it be also in no small part thank to the SNP Government recently buy four time as many chinese bus as bus from Scotland , but I digress . there be credible investment interest from traditional jet fuel producer and aviation operator , which have show their willingness to put capital behind UK SAF project . that investment be wait for the RCM to be put in place , for private law contract with manufacturer to be agree , and for the industry to have complete certainty in invest in what be a nascent and uncertain technology . the Bill must pass through the House as quickly as possible . one of the place that can not afford to wait for investment be Grangemouth . the closure of the Grangemouth refinery have mark the end of over a century of oil refining on Falkirk ' s doorstep , and job in the wide supply chain be at risk daily due to the loss of the economic anchor that the refinery provide the community . petroineo ' conversion of the refinery into an import terminal compound the concern within the community that we will be reliant on cheap chinese import instead of grow our own saf . Grangemouth have the infrastructure , skill , logistic and the will to be a cornerstone of our domestic SAF industry and strategy in Scotland and across the United Kingdom , and it already have a commitment from the Government of £ 200 million from the national wealth fund . organisation such as Scottish Enterprise and the team around Project Willow be already assess investable proposal centre on SAF in Grangemouth . however , the date for commencement of operation suggest in the report be still far too remote from the practical reality of worker who need to feed their kid and pay their mortgage . with strategic support and the wise and expedient deployment of the £ 200 million dedicate by this UK Labour Government to Grangemouth , I firmly believe that we can rapidly transition Grangemouth from aviation fuel to SAF , serve as a model of industrial renewal . there be implication for fuel security in Scotland , for job in my constituency and the cost of heating and industrial fuel across the country . we can not allow this to become another miss opportunity . for Grangemouth to have a chance of succeed , we need acceleration . with that in mind , I would like the Minister to answer the follow question . consider that industry be raise concern that we may have to wait up to nine month between the commencement of this legislation in quarter 4 of 2026 and the first private law contract be confirm , what work can be do prior to the introduction of this legislation to bring the first of the contract into effect as soon as humanly possible ? how do the Bill intersect with Project Willow proposal for SAF at Grangemouth ? do the Minister understand the need to back and deliver that at pace ? would he like to touch on how the Project Willow report recommend delay the HEFA cap ? do he consider the use of waste feedstock for sustainable aviation fuel to be dirty , clean or the same as waste incineration ? what conversation have he have with colleague at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs regard the waste hierarchy implication ? in summary , we need the RCM rapidly , and we need to develop the industry at scale , and affordably . I hope that we can genuinely back british SAF , safeguard fuel security , protect skilled job and anchor the energy transition in community such as Grangemouth , Teesside and all across the United Kingdom . I rise to speak in this important debate as we address the challenge of modernise fuel source and reduce our dependency on fossil fuel . I declare my interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the wood panel industry . the transition to net zero in aviation be not just a climate imperative but an industrial opportunity . I commend the Government for bring forward the Bill , which aim to provide long - term certainty for investor in the UK ' s grow sustainable aviation fuel sector . however , in our effort to decarbonise aviation , we must be careful not inadvertently to harm other strategically important industry that also contribute to our economic growth and environmental goal . the UK wood panel industry be one such sector . it generate more than £ 1 . 1 billion in gross value add and support more than 10 , 000 job across the UK , many in high - skilled manufacturing role in Wales , the north of England and Scotland , include my home of Ayrshire and beyond . those be well - pay , productive and future - face job . the sector be one of the UK ' s large industrial recycler of post - consumer waste wood . it take what would otherwise be discard and turn it into essential material for furniture , interior design and — crucially — the home we be build , yet there be genuine concern that the SAF revenue certainty mechanism could distort market by incentivise the diversion of recyclable wood and forestry product to fuel production . we have see that before with the renewable heat incentive , where subsidy inflate virgin wood price and squeeze out establish manufacturer . we can not afford to repeat that mistake . I be pleased to hear that minister have meet industry representative , listen to their concern and respond positively . I would like to invite my hon . friend the aviation Minister to come and speak to the APPG so that he can hear from the industry at first hand . the SAF mandate rightly reference the waste hierarchy , prioritise reuse and recycling before energy recovery . however , the enforcement mechanism remain unclear . if high - quality waste wood be draw into SAF production , price will rise , availability will fall and our domestic supply chain will suffer . let I be clear that I support the ambition of SAF . I also support the Government ' s ambition to build 1 . 5 million new home , but that will not be possible without affordable , sustainable construction material , include wood panel . I urge Ministers to maintain the current safeguard in the SAF mandate , uphold the exclusion of virgin and recyclable wood from eligibility , ensure robust enforcement of the waste hierarchy so that only truly non - recyclable wood can be use , and put in place transparency mechanism so that we can track what feedstock be be use . if we get the balance right , we can deliver clean sky and affordable home , and we can decarbonise aviation without decimate domestic manufacturing . let we make SAF sustainable in every sense : environmentally , economically and industrially . I thank the Minister for all his engagement on the subject . I be definitely not an expert on sustainable aviation fuel — it be nice to be in a debate where we can learn so much — but I will focus on what it could mean for my area of Norfolk and the east of England . as we have hear , the Bill have the power to support a sustainable aviation industry that will reduce carbon emission , protect highly skilled job and drive green growth . Norwich airport in my constituency have be a user of sustainable aviation fuel since 2023 . SaxonAir , a local flight operator , report that it use nearly 3 , 000 litre of sustainable aviation fuel for a single aircraft alone in 2024 . that usage show we what a substantial reduction in carbon emission can be make compare with regular jet fuel , but much more need to be do . recently , Norwich airport , Suffolk and Norfolk county council and SaxonAir launch Aviation East : a vision to make East Anglia an innovation hub for sustainable aviation . sustainable aviation fuel be reference as one of the vital building block for that mission , but that and what we be discuss today be part of a much broad landscape of innovation and decarbonisation in aviation . the east of England be already see amazing work to revolutionise the way we travel , result in fast , clean transport solution such as electric aircraft and drone taxi . in fact , as the Minister say recently , we could have fly taxi in the Norfolk sky by 2028 — the Jetsons be come to Norwich , and the Minister will be come too , to go in an electric plane . alongside this important Bill , I welcome action that the Government be take to decarbonise aviation through airspace modernisation , low and zero - emission aircraft , and carbon pricing . I welcome the £ 1 billion of funding for the Aerospace Technology Institute , and the work that the Civil Aviation Authority be do in the regulatory environment for zero emission aircraft . the potential in our region , the east of England , be huge , include for our local economy and — importantly — our young people . young people grow up in Norfolk and Norwich , as I do , want lot of different opportunity , but too often those opportunity be not there , and especially not on their own doorstep . I know we can deliver many more job and apprenticeship , include at the International Aviation Academy in Norwich , which count KLM as one of its partner . I be also on a mission to work with local stakeholder , so that that academy be work at full capacity , open up opportunity to local people both now and for future generation . deliver the vision of Aviation East , and the measure in the Bill , feed clearly into the Government ' s growth mission , by deliver highly skilled , sustainable , world - lead engineering job . however , all fledgling innovation need protection , and sustainable aviation fuel be no different if it be to grow into an industry that could transform air travel for the well . I welcome the sustainable aviation fuel mandate that come into force this year and require the blending of SAF into the UK - wide aviation fuel mix . I support that goal , but I recognise that it be achievable only when supplier be protect and support , by ensure that a price be guarantee , regardless of market force . I recently meet member of the East Anglian air ambulance , and I pay tribute to the amazing work they do , base out of Norwich airport . they tell I that they use a mix of SAF , but that it be expensive and perhaps they could use a bit more if the price come down . if the Government want to encourage innovation and drive growth in region such as the east of England , provide a backstop price be the signal that show investor we be serious about good green growth . with the Bill support sustainable aviation fuel producer , regional innovation hub such as Norwich airport will only benefit , help to increase their contribution to the UK ' s sustainable aviation industry , reduce carbon emission , tackle climate change , and drive green growth . I fully back the Bill . my contribution come from a slightly different angle compare with that of other hon . member , but from the outset let I be clear : I welcome the Government ' s plan for sustainable aviation fuel , and I thank my hon . friend the Minister for his generous time discuss the matter . we can , however , hold different feeling at the same time , and while I approve of the plan , I feel a lot of anger and frustration at what have happen to my constituency . a joint venture of private capital through Sir Jim Ratcliffe ' s INEOS and the chinese state , call Petroineos , have close the Grangemouth refinery . hundred of worker on site , and thousand in the wide supply chain , be to lose their job . Scotland no long refine our oil and fuel , and national security have be weaken as a result . everyone be aware that the previous Conservative Government do not want to know about that issue , and the current SNP Government try their very good to conceal their knowledge of the closure year ago . so while my Government have commit £ 200 million from the national wealth fund for new industry to come at some point down the line , that frankly be not enough . at Grangemouth we have see another unjust transition . four decade ago , it be the miner who be cast aside ; now it be refinery worker . I understand why oil and gas worker in the north - east of Scotland be anxious , and they have every right to be . the last four decade of privatisation have also highlight the danger of private capital and foreign Government ownership of our vital industry . at Grangemouth , conversion from a traditional oil refinery to a plant that would create sustainable aviation fuel be a viable alternative to closure and would have mean a truly just transition for worker and my local community . it would also have help the Government meet our ambitious SAF mandate and support the UK aviation industry . yet conversion be not deem profitable enough for Petroineos , and the Scottish and UK Governments both meekly accept the company call the shot , with minimal pushback , in an example of working - class community be let down by the collective political class . only yesterday , in question to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , I ask what ownership stake the Government would take in future industry at Grangemouth . I be still wait on a coherent answer . let I be clear : if there be no Government ownership stake take and we surrender all the new , greener industry , such as SAF , to private capital , the Government will have learn no lesson at all from the past four decade and we will never free ourselves from be at the mercy of those who put corporate profit ahead of our country ' s need . early today , the Chancellor say that she and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be not ready to let a working - class community in Scunthorpe go to the wall . that be why they intervene to save steel there and that be absolutely the correct decision . however , the Chancellor and the Secretary of State should have treat the refinery worker of Grangemouth in the same way as they do the steelworker of Scunthorpe . I urge the Government to take responsibility and to take ownership of vital industry in our national interest . I take this opportunity to wish everybody across the House a happy Carers Week . it be a pleasure to speak on Second reading of the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill . I know that many member think that I make my speech up as I go along , but I want they to know that I write this in advance and I do not wing it . member will also be happy to know that that be my last joke in this speech . I will just say quickly to the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) that he should never apologise for use an equation in a speech . as member across the House will be aware , although I do not have an airport in my constituency , Harlow start at the very end of the runway at stansted airport , and thousand of its resident work at the airport in a variety of role . I briefly pay tribute to the work of stansted airport college in invest in train the local workforce . as the Minister be aware , stanste be part of Manchester Airports Group , which be focus on the development of SAF . like this Government , the group recognise that SAF be the future . I will also briefly give a plug for the Harlow Group , which be involve in machine vital aircraft component , and so be in line with the airport on that . as member will recognise , the UK have a world - class aviation sector and a proud history in the field , from r . J . Mitchell to Morien Morgan . I be proud that this Labour Government be promote growth , as well as decarbonisation , in the sector . SAF will help we deliver our clean energy mission and our growth mission , allow the UK to be a world leader in the field once more . compare with fossil jet fuel , SAF will reduce gas emission by around 70 % , and we can all welcome that . the Bill will introduce a revenue certainty mechanism to provide a price guarantee for SAF producer . the Government believe that that will increase investor confidence in SAF production , and have speak in depth about the issue with stansted airport , it be clear that that be the stumble block for great SAF production and use . in conclusion , I welcome the Bill and the Government ' s ongoing commitment to decarbonisation and tackle climate change . I also welcome their commitment to be a world leader in the field . I thank my hon . friend for give way right at the end . just like he , I welcome the announcement . as we hear from across the aviation sector , there be much to be champion in the transition to sustainable aviation fuel that will be enable by the Bill . although Collins Aerospace in my constituency do not produce SAF , it do develop the component and system that mean that 100 % SAF flight be a reality . do my hon . friend agree that that back both the green transition and the industrial future for place such as our region and Wolverhampton and Willenhall ? I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . she manage to get in just before my last word , so I shall have to make up a new conclusion . I absolutely agree with her point . the point I be go to make in my conclusion be that this Bill be really important for climate change and meet our decarbonisation target . we all know about the impact of climate change on the planet that we live on , and we only have one planet so we have to get this right . she be right to say that there be also a massive economic advantage to this . I be really proud to mention two aviation pioneer from the United Kingdom early , and I think this country should be ambitious . we should once again be at the front of the queue when it come to aviation technology and aviation pioneer . SAF be a huge part of that . this be not just about climate change ; it be also about job and opportunity , and I be really excited that this will mean more job and opportunity for my constituency of Harlow as well as for Wolverhampton . I be delighted to support the Bill today , and I look forward to hear many more contribution . I also look forward to this Government continue with their fly start . it have be say by the Secretary of State and echo across the Chamber that the UK have a world - class aviation sector that be key to growth in our economy . I welcome the introduction of the Bill as it will provide certainty for producer of sustainable aviation fuel , allow the sector to grow and invest . we all know the benefit that airport have for our community , which be why my hon . friend the Members for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) and for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) will welcome the Chancellor ' s investment in Doncaster Sheffield . when we think about airport , we may automatically think about Heathrow , Gatwick , Luton , Birmingham and Manchester . however , as East Midlands airport be in my constituency of North West Leicestershire , it will be no surprise to anyone here that that be the airport I automatically think about . the airport provide huge benefit to my local economy , as well as make an important contribution to the wide UK economy . as the second large air freight terminal in the UK , East Midlands serve as the hub for DHL , UPS , FedEx and Royal Mail . this growth be back by investment in the nearby east midland rail hub , which transport our good from port to port . in addition , the airport serve as a base for RVL , a specialist airline that provide support to the Environment Agency and the Maritime and Coastguard Agency . the transition to sustainable aviation fuel be go to be key if those organisation be to grasp the nettle on net zero . my airport also serve million of passenger every year , with the like of Jet2 , easyjet and Tui operate out of it , support my constituent and those from those across the midland to take a well - deserved holiday . have meet representative of Jet2 recently , I know that there be huge support for the introduction of the revenue certainty mechanism , and it will be interesting to hear more about the transitional arrangement to ensure that airline such as Jet2 have the fuel they need to decarbonise and meet the mandate mix over the short term , as well as to see the SAF industry develop for the future . as East Midlands airport ' s thrive cargo facility extend to meet the demand of exporter from across the UK , cut greenhouse gas emission via sustainable aviation fuel will not only have significant benefit for net zero , but will put an estimate £ 5 billion a year back into our economy by 2050 . it will also create additional job , secure a long - term sustainable future for the industry . it also put forward a clear commitment to job at the airport , which will benefit my constituent and those of neighbour mp in the east midland . I would welcome assurance from the Minister that North West Leicestershire will see the full strength of these training and work opportunity when they come about , because we have a lot to offer . I know that the measure in this Bill , alongside the work announce to modernise airspace , will be welcome by the sector . may I take this opportunity to invite the Minister to the 60th birthday party of East Midlands airport on 21 July ? I notice that that be an exclusive invitation just to the Minister . like my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) say , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) should never be ashamed of be a geek of any kind . I definitely do not have his knowledge of formula or anything like that , but I certainly be a self - profess aviation geek who have spend probably far too long sit at the end of runway watch plane land for hour on end . when I be in high school , I use to cycle with one of my friend who live close to the end of Edinburgh airport runway to just sit and watch aircraft come in — to the point that one time , the police come along and ask why these two 14 - year - old be sit at the end of the runway watch aircraft land . I can assure everyone that nothing untoward or illegal be happen — we be just be that sad and geeky . I think that be the problem the police have ; they do not believe that that be what two 14 - year - old be intend to do . I would challenge the hon . member ' s commitment to aviation spot if , during university , he do not take a date to the final approach at Heathrow airport and have she observe the flight come in for a good two hour . he may be a geek , but he be not quite there yet . it would rather depend on whether the date end up marry he , wouldn ' t it ? I thank the hon . member for that intervention . I will not ask for a second intervention on how that relationship progress . aviation be a critical part of our national story and our economy , as other have say . as an island nation , we rely on the maritime and aviation sector to get good and people in and out of our country , so it be clear that aviation must continue to play a role in our future . in Scotland and in my constituency , that include the movement of product like salmon and whisky , as well as tourist , to and from Dunfermline and the rest of Scotland . however , with aviation expect to become the large transport sector emitter of carbon by 2040 , it be clear that a range of transformational , long - term change be need in the sector to make it sustainable . I recently have the privilege of host a sustainable aviation technology showcase in Parliament with company such as Airbus , Boeing , easyjet , International Airlines Group and other , include some of the one that have be mention . there I see technological solution range from radical change to aircraft design to hydrogen - power aircraft , as well as a number of SAF producer . I have also hear from Edinburgh airport , one of the large employer in my constituency , of the importance of airspace reorganisation and regulatory change , all of which will have a role in modernise aviation and reduce the environmental impact . I know that the Minister have be relentless in pursue all these avenue to improve aviation in the UK , and we should thank he , his official and the ministerial team for that work and commitment . for all those people from different part of the aviation ecosystem , the issue of SAF have be prime . on take office , this Government take action much fast than many expect with the introduction of the SAF mandate . it obligate company supply fuel to airline operate out of the UK to either incrementally increase the amount of SAF in use or pay a buy - out fee . that mandate start at 2 % and will rise to 10 % in 2030 and to 22 % in 2040 . that be the kind of direction and steer that the industry need , but it will mean nothing if we do not produce SAF in the UK and invest now in the much long - term plan for third generation SAF to make that a reality here and to make the UK a world leader in this technology , as well as play a part in the future of our fledgling hydrogen sector . develop a strong SAF industry be a major industrial opportunity for the UK , as other have say . the UK can lead the SAF industry with job creation and innovation . at the event I mention , Airbus tell I that it be commit to enable 100 % SAF capability across its aircraft production by 2030 . accord to the back british SAF campaign , there be potential for over 10 , 000 job in the UK by 2030 and 60 , 000 job by 2050 , a number of which would be in Scotland and in my constituency , as well as in the constituency of other member across the country . in due course , I hope that some of that might include investment in different part of the SAF infrastructure in Fife , with proximity to Edinburgh airport and excellent sea , road and rail link . for these and other reason , I be delighted to see the Bill come forward . it clearly set out the revenue certainty mechanism and the framework for set a strike price that will support business and investment case to make SAF a reality in the UK . it also establish the route for funding via a levy on supplier , along with enforcement and oversight . I hope the Minister might respond in his summing up to a few specific point , some of which have be mention by colleague . under clause 1 , what process do he intend to use to shape precise price point for producer and to calculate the market reference price ? clause 11 , on financial penalty , contain provision to amend amount in the light of inflation . be those the only circumstance in which penalty amount can change ? under clause 14 , what oversight do he envisage if financial assistance be require to ensure value for money ? clear and stable policy framework like this SAF Bill will be essential to unlock private investment , accelerate SAF supply chain and position the UK as a global leader in the net zero transition , but the pace at which the legislation be introduce will be key , so will the Minister consider what step he can take to accelerate the creation of a successful SAF industry here in the UK ? as my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) ask early , will the Minister begin work to create strike price contract so that they be ready as quickly as possible when the legislation be pass ? will he consider move the start date for the revenue mechanism forward to allow project to get start as quickly as possible ? the Bill will be a significant part of the future of british aviation , british industry and british growth . I look forward to see its progress through the House . I welcome the Bill , particularly the introduction of the revenue certainty mechanism , which be not only a sensible intervention but a timely one . it give investor clarity , it give producer confidence and it give community such as mine a sense that this transition will bring job rather than take they away . I thank Ministers for listen not only to the sector but to those of we who represent Teesside . in our region , we have a number of producer with an interest in scale up SAF production — principally Alfanar , which have already invest £ 2 . 5 billion in our region and want to go much far by build a brand - new plant that will create 2 , 300 construction job and 300 permanent job . Alfanar be not alone , however ; we also have iogen , Willis , Nova Pangaea , Abundia , Arcadia and many active producer or other look to scale up — serious player with serious plan . I speak to one early this week ; it say that the Bill be exactly what the industry be look for . may I put just a couple of question to the Minister ? what those producer need now be confidence that enable work for final investment decision can begin , ideally before the Bill complete its full legislative journey . of course , there be a precedent for that in the Energy Act 2023 . what engagement will the Minister have with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero on the carbon capture track project . I know that a number of the producer be keen to benefit from track 1 expansion , so produce those two thing in train seem like a sensible thing to do , and I hope that there be cross - departmental engagement . ultimately , I thank the government and urge they to move at pace to deliver the job that we want for the industry in our region . I want to ensure that young people watch from working - class community across Teesside know that these be not abstract opportunity that be distant from they , but opportunity for they that they can get into — like our expansion in skill training . this sector can be transformative for the Tees valley region — not only for Middlesbrough but for Redcar and Cleveland , Stockton , Darlington and Hartlepool . our area suffer industrial decline for many decade , but now we be see new life and new industry . finally , Teesside be take off . I call Chris McDonald for the final Back - Bench contribution . we hear early from my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) how proud the people of Doncaster be of their airport , but I challenge she to a " pride in your local airport " competition , because nowhere be more proud of its local airport than Teesside — to the extent that whether politician promise the continuation of flight from Teesside to Alicante be the most important issue in local politic . quite right , too , because work people in Teesside save all year round for their seven day in the sun , and that be important to I and to everybody else who live there . People who say that we need to reduce flight and the opportunity for work people to go on holiday be not live in the real world — they be certainly not talk to the people I talk to and live with . I support the right of my hon . friend ' s Stockton North constituent to go on holiday to Alicante . equally , in my Ealing , Southall constituency , 53 % of people — include I — be bear in a different country . do he agree that they have the right to go home and visit family and friend , so it be important that we accept the reality of air travel and focus our time and energy on realistic plan , such as the one before we , to invest in sustainable air fuel ? I could not agree more . as my hon . friend the Member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) say , we be indeed an island nation , if anyone have not spot that , and the quick way to get about be to go by air . what everyone want be to wake up on a morning in Stockton and then be sit on a beach in Benidorm by lunch time , and of course they can do that at Teesside airport . the people of Teesside know that our future be about decarbonise . this government have invest £ 4 billion in carbon capture and storage . we have the large offshore wind monopile factory in our area , and we be produce green hydrogen in Billingham in my constituency — in fact , Billingham produce 50 % of the UK ' s hydrogen , and Billingham and Teesside more generally be set to become Europe ' s main centre for sustainable aviation fuel . I be sure that sustainable aviation fuel will be produce in Grangemouth , Humberside , the north - west and south Wales , but the market be enormous and , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) , Teesside and Billingham in my constituency be well place in the whole of Europe to deal with this . the big threat to that at the moment be not the fantastic plan of this Government , but the ideological adherence of member of Reform to anti - net zero . as usual , I find myself in this House stand up for new job for industrial community in my area , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland . where be the Reform member ? they be not here — they be never here . as well as the welcome development that my hon . friend allude to in the Tees , this be about the wide north - east . in my constituency , Wastefront have a £ 100 million investment and be create 100 good job on the River Wear . do he agree that job be be make in the wide north - east through this Government ' s policy and that they be under threat from the policy of opposition party that he mention ? I agree . whether it be in Sunderland or , as I mention , the north - west and down in south Wales , we will see job in the supply chain throughout all this work . it will also benefit Heathrow and our other major airport hub . I think it might be useful to make a few comment about why I believe SAF be the solution . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) give a great description of why the flight range equation essentially drive we in the direction of sustainable aviation fuel . electrification certainly would be possible for short - haul flight , but the hydrogen simply do not have the density . as I think the hon . Gentleman also say , infrastructure be important — we hear that from the Secretary of State in her opening statement — because plane take off from one place , but they land somewhere else , and they need to be able to refuel there too . sustainable aviation fuel be certainly the right approach , but a couple of member raise concern in the debate about the raw material for feedstock — my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) raise that issue . the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) say that he have learn about second - generation sustainable aviation fuel ; it be probably just as well that he be not in his place , because I might blow his mind when I talk about third - generation and fourth - generation sustainable aviation fuel . essentially , there be concern about the raw material and municipal waste . although the amount of waste per person will decline , a lot of it be put into energy from waste plant , and the new investment be really about future generation of SAF . we have hear about biomass . if that biomass be not from a feedstock , perhaps that verge into the second generation , but it be third - generation and fourth - generation sustainable aviation fuel that will enable we to scale up this industry . that will open it up to the direct combination of carbon dioxide and hydrogen use green electricity , which will enable we to scale it up . an abundant supply of those raw material be need , which be why I be so confident that we will see the industry spread around the whole of the UK . why do I say Billingham will become the UK and european centre for this work ? there be a justification . teesside already produce 50 % of the UK ' s hydrogen , and the chemical cluster there be well - know for produce pharmaceutical for fertiliser and various other chemical . we produce synthetic petrol in Billingham in the 1930 , and we produce synthetic jet fuel there in the 1940 for the Royal Air Force during the second world war . I say that not to imply in some way that we still have the skillset — many of those people be quite rightly enjoy their retirement , or have perhaps move on from that — but to demonstrate to the House that there be not a big technological risk associate with this technology . third - generation SAF will rely on the Fischer - Tropsch process , which have be around for 100 year . in fact , when I talk to investor in the industry and ask they what the big risk be , they highlight economic risk — with which the Government be get to grip right now through this legislation — and political risk , which be about the consistency of Government policy . as I mention early , the big threat to these job and to this industry be the ideology of the Reform party . as we see the job and investment , I be confident that people in my local community will vote for job and investment in the future as well . as such , I warmly welcome this legislation . I very much look forward to the day when I can welcome right hon . and hon . member to Teesside international airport , and enjoy a drink with they in the bar before we jet off to Alicante for our holiday . I call the shadow Minister . before I begin , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , with respect to a donation from P1 Fuels . although it do not make aviation fuel , it be in the synthetic business , and — as the Minister well know — I run a classic Land Rover on that fuel last summer to prove the point that this stuff work . the test that net zero must meet be that all our constituent must still be able to do everything they do today — be it fly on holiday , drive , or get a ferry or anything else that run on a liquid hydrocarbon — and that business must still be able to move good around the world and trade at the same price as today , or for an equivalent price , just green . in that , technology be our friend , as be the innovation we see — particularly on these shore , but also innovation that be happen abroad . as my hon . friend the Member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , the shadow Secretary of State , say early in the debate , the opposition do not seek to divide the House on Second Reading . this Bill be an extension of the previous Government ' s agenda in this regard , and we fully recognise the need to replace fossil fuel over time and , in this instance , to replace aviation fuel with a clean , green alternative . however , there will be key question that the House should look at as this Bill go through Committee and its later stage , which do need answer . we have hear some of those question throughout this afternoon ' s debate . we have have a good and wide - range debate , with very little deviation from the core consensus that sit underneath the Bill . on the Conservative Benches , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) make the important point that aviation will be critical to get the tourist into the new Universal theme park in Bedfordshire when it eventually open . he also focus on the important role that Cranfield University and industry in his constituency be play — they be provide part of the solution to the problem that this Bill seek to support and deliver . equally , he ask the legitimate question of how the United Kingdom mechanism and mandate compare with those overseas , which I hope the Minister will reflect on in his wind - up speech . on the Government Benches , the chairman of the Transport Select Committee , the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , speak well and in an informed way on this subject . she and I both serve on the Transport Committee in the previous Parliament , and we both work on the inquiry and report on the fuel of the future that the Committee produce during that Parliament . she rightly make good point about the supply of waste for SAF technology and the trade - off with energy from waste facility , for example . there will have to be some conversation within Government , particularly with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , about the way in which so many council , include my own in Buckinghamshire , now send all general waste to an energy from waste facility . those incinerator and facility have be finance through multi - decade deal , and if we be to get that waste into SAF production , some of those deal will inevitably have to be undo or renegotiate . who will bear the cost of that ? the hon . Lady equally raise an important point about bioethanol — I do not know whether it be just shadow Ministers who receive an email from Vivergo Fuels this week , or whether it be all member of the House . that email give a pretty stark warning , particularly about the impact of the US trade deal that the Government have do on the bioethanol space . essentially , it warn that that deal could completely undermine the UK bioethanol industry . that be a serious concern that the Department for Transport and the Department for Business and Trade will have to work out if we be to have domestic bioethanol production , as much for sustainable aviation fuel as for petrol . we largely all fill up — unless we have classic car — with E10 at the pump . E5 be still 5 % bioethanol . as this Bill pass through the House and as the petrol debate for road car move on , that serious question will have to be answer . when we get a warning from industry as stark as the one from Vivergo Fuels , it need to be address . the hon . member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) mention the role of hydrogen in the mix , and I look forward to debate that with he when he have a debate on this issue in Westminster Hall next week , I think . he be absolutely right that there be other technology and other fuel out there . the hon . member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) correctly point out that there can be no net zero without many of the element of this Bill . the hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) speak passionately about Doncaster airport and the sustainable future that the Bill will help bring about . the hon . member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) speak in support of the Bill , and the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) speak in an informed way about SAF production , which form such an important part of the Bill . the hon . member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) rightly speak of the innovative landscape , although the drone taxi do worry I a little bit — I be not sure we have completely get good be deliver properly by drone yet , so we should do that before we start put people in they . equally , she rightly speak about the world - lead engineering job that will be create . the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) slightly break the consensus , but he be entirely right to speak up for his constituent and his constituency interest so passionately . I think there be a legitimate debate about the refinery that we have lose , the refinery that we still have and how this debate intersect with they . I will not dwell too much on the pun of the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I think he be a teacher before he enter this House , but perhaps he also write for Bobby Davro , give some of the pun he come up with . for the benefit of young member , Bobby Davro be a comedian . the hon . Gentleman show my age , and no doubt his own , with that sedentary interjection . the hon . member for Harlow be right to focus on the skill agenda that underpin this legislation , on which I do not think we have hear so much from the Government . likewise , the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) rightly point out the live experience of Jet2 and the impact on cargo . we have hear a lot in this debate about move people around the country and the world use aviation , but not so much about cargo , which be an equally important part of our role as a global trading nation . the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , put aside his little geek - off with the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) , be right to focus on that agenda of move good as well as people . we also hear from Teesside , with the hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) and the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) . in fact , I be a little worried . this morning I be in Westminster Hall with the hon . member for Stockton North , for a debate on the space industry , in which I agree with every word he say , and I be a bit nervous to say that I agree with he this afternoon , too . that do not often happen in this House , but he be absolutely right that all our constituent work hard and save hard . they want that family holiday or that weekend away or whatever it be every single year , and it would be a gross dereliction of duty for any of we to lumber they with high airfare or to try to make their holiday more expensive . that be not what any of they send any of we here to do ; they want we to ensure that they can still live their life in the way they wish . briefly , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam warn we that he might be boring but , uncharacteristically for a liberal Democrat , he actually be not . [ laughter . ] I very much enjoy his speech and the knowledge that he bring from his 16 year of work in the aviation sector . the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) be equally right to focus on another matter that a few member have raise in the debate : the use of SAF by our armed force , particular the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy . the use of technology , from fuel derive from waste and feedstock to pure synthetic , be where I think much of the debate will go in the come year . in fact , the technology to enable we to move on from those feedstock and waste - derive fuel already exist . in 2021 the RAF fly a plane not on a blend of SAF , but on 100 % synthetic fuel make right here in the United Kingdom by a company call Zero Petroleum , which be mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) . let I now turn to a part of the agenda on which I think we will need to have a conversation when the Bill go into Committee . the Bill give no detail on the approach to be take regard the specific of the contracting between the producer and the counterparty , the Government contractor for the strike price . in the background material , especially that which can be find in the Government ' s response to the consultation on the SAF revenue certainty mechanism , the ambition be largely there , and we be not critical of the ambition that sit within that document , but it might be beneficial to be sure that the contracting will follow those ambition . give that the SAF mandate already in force include a ringfence mandate for an electro - sustainable aviation fuel quota , it be critical that esaf project be support equally within the revenue certainty mechanism . it be important both to develop a UK market for SAF and esaf , and local production as create by the Bill and the mandate , and to support and encourage the use of home - grow technology for the manufacture of SAF and esaf , as that not only retain revenue within the United Kingdom but leverage a huge amount of revenue for future export through technology licensing . sadly , a great many project support by grant from the Advanced Fuels Fund be use foreign technology . perhaps I could suggest that the Government reflect , ahead of the Committee stage , on the possibility of add another ambition to those that they have already set out : namely , to reward or incentivise the use of UK technology in project support by the revenue support mechanism . the House may be surprised to know that , despite the various programme of UK Government support for SAF and eSAF , AFF grant , SAF mandate and the SAF revenue certainty mechanism , no UK Government body be mandate to support the development of the core technology of fuel synthesis . we have a great tradition of research and development in this country . company such as Zero Petroleum have be fund entirely by private capital — which be largely a good thing — and also through some of their RAF and Ministry of Defence contract , for different reason . notably , however , the Aerospace Technology Institute be the Government - fund body that should be support SAF and esaf manufacturing technology . it support everything else , include hydrogen and electric aircraft , but , bizarrely , it be not permit to fund SAF and esaf technology programme . that be a huge misalignment in the strategy , which I hope the Minister can address . I have a few key question for the Minister , and he be show great enthusiasm about answer they . we will be spend three day in Committee , so there will be many more to come . only three ? we can negotiate more , I be sure . [ interruption . ] the less we hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s date at Heathrow , the well . be the Government able to outline their level of certainty about the cost to taxpayer ? be there confidence that the levy impose on fuel supplier will not lead to significant rise in ticket price ? in other word , what will ensure that the £ 1 . 50 variance in either direction be not a hope , not a dream and not a good - case scenario , but a reality about air fare ? it would also be helpful if detail could be provide about the expect cost of import SAF in comparison with the cost of produce it in the United Kingdom . if we be impose cost on passenger through levy , be it expect that SAF can be produce more cheaply in other region , or be the policy focus primarily on energy security ? as I have say , our view be that we should make the fuel right here in the United Kingdom use our technology , but in order to get the right price from our technology in the UK , it be important that we understand the market overseas . can the Minister outline what proportion of the SAF use in the UK be expect to be produce domestically in the first instance ? what would constitute success in the first iteration ? the Government have suggest that finance a plant cost between £ 600 million and £ 2 billion . from a regulatory perspective , what can be do to ensure that plant fall towards the low end of that cost range ? there be many question to be answer in get the Bill right . we want to get it right , and we want to see sustainable aviation fuel use in our aircraft . we will not divide the House today , but the test , as always , be this : have the Government get it right ? I thank nearly all member — no , all member — for their consideration of the draft Bill and for their valuable contribution to this debate . I be grateful to the Opposition for their question and scrutiny , and we will make sure as a House that we get this right for our nation . I fully concur with the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , that the liberal Democrats have not be boring today , and I be grateful for their support in this matter . have work with the Liberal Democrats in the past , I know that they be always with you in the room until the fight break out , so let we see how we get on over the next period . will the Minister congratulate innovator such as my constituent James Hygate , who be recently award an OBE for his work on green fuel ? over genteel tea and cake — as the House can imagine , this happen all the time in Cheltenham — he tell I of his plan to turn human faece into SAF . he be an innovator at the leading edge , and he say that the Minister might be able to work with his friend in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to solve some of the problem that we have with sewage in our river , by take it out at source . be the Minister consider that as part of this legislation ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution and join he in thank James Hygate OBE for his work in this area . on the serious point about waste , I sit on the small ministerial group for the circular economy . it be a big part of what this government be try to do , and we will see how that work progress . the UK stand at the forefront of global effort to decarbonise aviation . when this government come into power , we act immediately by lay the statutory instrument for the SAF mandate , which have be in place since 1 January . we have establish the UK airspace design service , a programme of work that will modernise the airspace above we by decarbonise and support clean flight with few delay . we be now the first legislature on the planet to introduce a revenue certainty mechanism , and the world be look to we . I hope that this House can get behind we . we can not help but be excited about the Bill because of its potential to deliver . the Minister be a good friend of we in Northern Ireland , and a good friend of all of we in this Chamber and across this great nation . there be innovative people in Northern Ireland who have the technology , and they wish to play their part . be it the Minister ' s intention to ensure that everyone across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have the opportunity to feed into SAF and to gain the benefit from it ? I be always delighted to answer question from the hon . Gentleman , who represent a place that I love dearly . I have responsibility for maritime travel , and we see Artemis Technologies decarbonise our maritime sector . we have refinery in Belfast . I speak to a major chief executive whose family emigrate to Canada from Belfast and who be very fond of the city . we expect he to talk to his company about apply for the contract when we eventually let they do so , and that will be key . I have a lot of question to get through . the £ 1 . 50 that the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) mention could be £ 1 . 50 more or £ 1 . 50 less , but I be happy to hand over £ 1 . 50 to he now , if he wish . that be not go to have an impact on people ' s ability to fly to destination , as he rightly say . I think people fly for their annual holiday be key to the british way of life , and I do not want to damage that whatsoever . that analysis come from Department for Transport business team itself . many of the question be about go fast . I must gently point out that we be promise four plant by 2025 by the last government , but I be not go to get into that . we could not go any fast — this be still the first Session — and we have to introduce the mandate and we be now introduce part 2 , which be the RCM . so I would say we be go at as fast a pace as humanly possible . we be neutral on when the contract be bid for , so I say to those worry about waste or HEFA stream that these contract change over time , and we will see what bid come in . the hon . member for Orpington also mention large plant , and he will have see member — mainly those Government Members behind I — from our industrial north , south Wales and other place queue up to get advanced , high - manufacture facility with well - pay , trade - unionise job . as we advance this , we be work with the industry on the strike price . the Chair of the Transport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , say this be not a silver bullet , and it be not , but it be part of the package — airspace modernisation , sustainable aviation fuel , carbon pricing , carbon capture technology and zero emission flight — that this Government be pursue to decarbonise aviation in our country , and we be invest £ 1 billion in the Aerospace Technology Institute to do that . my hon . Friend also mention Heathrow , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , who have show great leadership in this space — along with other member , official and the industry — have point out that the expansion of Heathrow be account for in the sixth carbon budget . I thank the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for his thank to I for get on with what be part of a package of decarbonisation , as he rightly point out . my hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) be a doughty champion for Bristol airport — he mention it every time I meet he in the Tea Room — and a champion for hydrogen . I look forward to visit his airport and to reply to his Westminster Hall debate on Tuesday . the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) take any opportunity he have to plug the universal theme park . he speak about his support for Luton airport , and how it will be a gateway for regeneration in his area . on how the approach differ from those of other market , we be the first one to do it . if we get this do in the next few week , we will be the only legislature on the planet to have do so , and the world be look to we to move this forward . come to my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , there be a bit of an arm race between member , if they do not mind my saying so , about who love their airport the most — Teesside , Norwich , East Midlands and on it go . I think we should have an independent competition for who love their airport — rise — I think the hon . member represent Teesside be about to intervene on I . do the Minister agree with I that Teesside International airport be a real gem in our region , and it be absolutely critical that it return to profitability as soon as possible ? how could I not agree with my hon . friend . we be proud of our airport — I be proud of mine in my constituency — which provide job and service . as everybody have say , they have a great history and provide great innovation , and we should celebrate they . stoke - on - Trent do not have an airport , but we do use Manchester airport quite a lot , so while the Minister be sit next to the Transport Secretary on the Front Bench , could he put in a word for a direct train link from Stoke to Manchester airport , so we can all enjoy his airport as much as he do ? personally , I disagree with my hon . friend , because I think Stoke have a great airport — it be in my constituency , and it be call Manchester airport . I can assure the House that I be not go to take any lesson on date night from the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) . [ laughter . ] but it be great to hear his expertise in this area . we do value that expertise in the House and I hope he make the Public Bill Committee . he mention ZeroAvia , which I work with in opposition and in government , and how well it be do with zero emission flight . he may have to run that equation past I again — I do not pick it up the first time . what a doughty champion for Doncaster Sheffield airport my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) be . it be great to hear the Chancellor mention it in her statement today . I be glad that the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , the transport spokesman for the SNP , welcome the Bill . it be really good to see how the military and our armed service be get in on the decarbonisation agenda . the RAF Lossiemouth , in his patch , be show good practice . my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) talk with passion about Grangemouth near his constituency . in direct answer to his question , we have no plan to review the HEFA cap . this be about security in a fragile geopolitical situation and also about competitiveness . I remind he and my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) that the Government be consider EY ' s report and recommendation regard the refinery . the national wealth fund stand ready , and we encourage investor to come forward and secure the long - term future at Grangemouth . my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) be right . this industry produce well - pay , unionised job often in industrial area that have be deindustrialise . I thank she for her work chair the APPG for the wood panel industry , and I be happy to accept her offer to speak to it . my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) be another doughty campaigner for Norwich airport and its sustainable aviation hub . she be push that so hard . I be glad to meet she recently and I hope to visit Norwich in the near future . she talk about the job and apprenticeship that go with it . my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth — I will refine my remark on Jim Ratcliffe ; as a Manchester City fan , I have well be careful that I do not say anything out of turn — be right to talk about deindustrialisation . I see that in east Manchester grow up in the ' 70 , with the chemical and the mining industry . we be only now get over that in part of our great city . I just remind he that if we do this right , we be look at 15 , 000 job and £ 5 billion to the economy by 2050 . I once try a joke in the House and Mr Speaker say , " Don ' t give up the day job . " I remind my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) of that advice . at every opportunity , he raise the work he do with stansted airport . he end his speech really strongly , say that the country should be ambitious in this field . I completely concur . my hon . friend the Member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) talk about her love affair with East Midlands airport and how important it be to freight . I have have roundtable with the freight industry on how we grow our freight industry in the UK . if I can get to her airport ' s 60th birthday celebration , I will . I wonder where my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) be go with that police story . and then we get into a very geeky arm race with the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) . he be right to say that aviation , while a small emitter now , become a much large emitter , or the large , by 2040 . that be why it be imperative that we do this now — another call to arm to go fast . I think my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) say he be a supporter of the airport near his constituency . Alfana , Arcadia , Iogen and a plethora of company could bid for contract in the region and support a manufacturing renaissance . just to remind he about carbon capture , which he mention , the Prime Minister recently announce £ 22 billion of Government money to research carbon capture and technology at Stanlow . in the arm race for who love their airport most , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) talk about hydrogen , wind , solar and clean energy . reform member be not present , which be key because — [ interruption . ] oh , they be here now . reform promise that it be go to re - industrialise these area , but without a financial plan that add up . this government be actually get on with it , and we will continue to get on with it . this Government have demonstrate that we be commit to support our world - class aviation sector through what we have do in the first short few month of this Government . we have the third big aviation market on the planet , which be world class and competitive , and we want it to remain that way . we want more people to be able to fly , and we want they to do it sustainably , and that be why the transition to SAF be not a mere aspiration , but an imperative . I recognise that there will be challenge , but SAF will have our unwavering support , which be why we be back it in the Bill , and I be grateful for the support around this Chamber today . the revenue certainty mechanism will help new SAF plant to get off the ground , support good , green job in place like Teesside . our SAF policy be help to create the right environment for company like Exolum , base in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Chester North and Neston ( Samantha Dixon ) , which pipe the sustainable fuel to Heathrow , Gatwick and , of course , the UK ' s fast - grow airport , Manchester . the Bill be deliver on our growth and clean energy mission and on our manifesto commitment to secure the aviation industry ' s long - term future through promote SAF . I urge this House to give the Bill its full support , and I stand ready to work with member across this House on that . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill : Committal the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 22 July . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Heidi Alexander . ) question agree to . sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under the Act by the Secretary of State . — ( Heidi Alexander . ) question agree to . sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( a ) provision by virtue of which person may be require to make payment , or to provide financial collateral , to a designated counterparty , and ( b ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Heidi Alexander . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Investigatory Powers that the draft Investigatory Powers ( Communications Data ) ( relevant Public Authorities and designate Senior Officers ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 2 April , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . British Coal Staff Superannuation Scheme Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) before I start , I declare an interest in this debate as a member of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , which , for the purpose of this debate , I will refer to as the BCSSS . before I go on , I want to say a special thank to the BCSSS Facebook campaign group , which have be a great source of support and advice . the group represent more than 2 , 500 scheme member , and I be sure many will be watch this debate right now . all the argument for a fair deal for BCSSS member have be hear before , so I want to take this opportunity to speak as an ex - coalminer , and as the only member of the BCSSS , I think , in this Parliament — and yes , I have a financial interest in this , but I feel that I be qualified to speak up on behalf of member of the BCSSS . I know that he hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , another ex - coalminer , be present ; I be sure he will support many of the thing I have to say . I be the last generation of coalminer in my family . I follow my dad , my granddad , my great - grandad and my great - great - grandad into the pit in Nottinghamshire and derbyshire . in fact , I can not think of any male family member before I who do not spend some time underground . I work at four different pit . miner will usually say that the good pit they work at be their first pit , and my first pit be Sutton colliery in Ashfield , north Nottinghamshire . I start there about a year after the miner ' strike in the 1980 . it be a great pit , but this be a pit where , sadly , just a few decade early , five man have be kill in an explosion . I go on to do my coalface training at Creswell colliery in Derbyshire , where in 1950 , yet another disaster have occur : 80 boy and man lose their life in an underground fire . we have have countless disaster , horrific accident and nasty thing go on , but still man and boy go down the pit — the black hole — to do a shift , dig coal out to fuel our nation . it be hard to describe what it be like to work underground ; there be nothing like it . it be dark and dangerous . it can be red hot in some place , yet freeze cold in other . there be no toilet , as the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington can tell we . we just have to dig a hole and then cover it up . it be hard to explain what it be like crawl up and down a coalface , which be 29 inch high and 250 yard long , with a shearing machine spit out coal , dust , heat and oil . it be a horrible feeling . it be hard to explain what it be like to carry a steel ring on your shoulder — a girder — with your mate , on uneven ground and in dusty condition . it be hard to explain what it be like to bandage up a workmate who have just be trap , have have a big chunk rip out of he and have lose a few finger and half a foot . he have to be put on a stretcher and carry out to the pit bottom . on one occasion , that be seven mile of the pit — seven mile underground . that be from here to the edge of London . but that be what we do — we do that for a living , day in , day out . we didn ' t moan . towards the end of my mining career — the last three year of it — I work as a deputy underground . I be responsible for the health and safety of the man in my district . when I become a deputy , I be transfer from the mineworker ' pension scheme to the BCSSS . I do not have any say in it ; they just put I in it . that be what they do . while we continue work — dig the coal to fuel the nation and keep the light on — all we ask for be a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work . the pit be long go now , but there be still thousand of ex - miner and their widow in the coalfield community — my constituency of Sherwood Forest have the second large BCSSS membership in the country . almost 40 % of the membership be woman — woman who be formerly employ in the mining industry , and woman who be the spouse of member who have sadly die . do the hon . Member agree that it be vital that the Government deliver justice for this scheme not only for constituency such our in Nottinghamshire but also for woman ? yes , I will come on to the woman who work in our industry a bit later , but the hon . Lady be absolutely correct . all we ask for now that the pit have go — we still have the community — be a fair day ' s pay from our own pot of money . that pot of money be the £ 2 . 3 billion investment reserve fund . that be our money . we pay it in . all we be ask be for the Government to give it back to we . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . I would never have know about what happen in the mine , but for the story that he have tell we . he have tell those story in debate in this House in the past . I thank he for his service . we congratulate the Nationwide building society for do the right thing and share the bonus that it earn with its customer . therefore , with great respect , Minister , the fact that the Government seem to be drag their heel on see mineworker receive rightful dividend from their back - break , life - alter work be jarring and must be address as a matter of urgency . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . as always , he make a fantastic contribution and I agree with every single word that he have just say . the Labour party be found on the back of coalminer , and I think it be time for the current Labour Government to repay those miner . they should remember that the miner pay their union sub ; they help to bankroll the Labour party . let we be honest , the Labour party have supply some good ex - mine mp to this House . there be one sit there tonight . there be one who use to sit over there . I do not agree with their politic , but they be great mp . let we remind ourselves that about 4 , 000 or 5 , 000 woman be part of the BCSSS . we could not have do our job underground if it be not for those woman , who do a great job . then there be the widow of the ex - miner who would love to see a few extra quid in their bank account each month when fuel bill be go through the roof . about 2 , 000 member of the BCSSS die every year , and there be less than 40 , 000 member still in the scheme . the hon . Member and the House will know that I be a big supporter of return the reserve to the fund , particularly because many member be die . the hon . Member sit as a Conservative Member on the Government Benches for a number of year and , indeed , be deputy chairman of the conservative party while they be in government . give the promise that Boris Johnson make in Mansfield in the 2019 election , why do the hon . member do nothing to correct this injustice , since so many member of the scheme be pass away each year ? would he agree that it be somewhat hypocritical to now be champion this issue ? if the hon . Member have study Hansard and pay a little more attention to Parliament during the past five year , he would know about the representation I make . in fact , I have my own Adjournment debate on the MPS . I meet the former Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer to discuss the mineworker ' pension scheme and the miner ' ask , so it be a bit unfair of the hon . member to try to score point in a very serious debate . I would have hope that he would come here to support I in this debate , instead of try to score political point . I do not think it be a good look , and I be sure that the BCSSS member in Mansfield and across Ashfield will not be very happy with his contribution . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress . as I say , there be 40 , 000 member leave in the scheme , and it will not be that long until there be just a few thousand of we leave . meanwhile , miner and widow die without get the justice they deserve . member may find it hard to believe , but I be 58 year old , and I be one of the young member in the scheme . many member be over 70 year old . in fact , the average age of a member in the scheme be 75 , and time be run out for these old collier to get what they deserve . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress . it be worth remember that when the last member of the MPS die , the billion of pound in the fund go straight to the Treasury and the Government of the day , and they can spend that money on whatever they like . I want to put it on the record that we have see a transformative intervention by this Labour Government on the mineworker ' pension scheme , and over 100 , 000 former mineworker already receive their first pension increase in November last year . I wonder whether the hon . Member might want to congratulate the Government on that innovation . if the hon . Member show a little patience , he will hear I move on to that later . the previous Labour manifesto state that the reserve fund of both the MPS and the BCSSS would be release to member , yet the BCSSS be omit from Labour ' s manifesto in 2024 . maybe the Minister can explain why that be . she may be aware — obviously the hon . member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) be not aware of this — that during the last Parliament , I continually press the Government for a fair deal on the MPS , and I be knock back at every single opportunity . credit where credit be due , this Labour Government have stick by their word , and the member of the mineworker ' pension scheme be a lot well off under this Labour Government due to the extra money in their pay packet . time be of the essence . while colleague across the House may differ on these issue , we represent constituent who continue to suffer from the historic injustice create by the hon . member ' s former Tory Government . thousand of miner have die without justice , with 2 , 000 pass every year . this be about fairness , and the Government have act , but do he agree that they be right to resolve this swiftly so that no more family wait in vain for their money ? I think that the hon . Member be get a little confused ; she probably need a history lesson . there be a Labour Government for 13 year from the ' 90 that could have put this right — it work both way . it be unfair to blame just the Conservative Government ; I would blame both government . to go back to the surplus from the MPS , I thank the Labour Government for give the mineworker their much deserve reserve fund , but I gently remind they that they should act to implement the full finding of the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee ' s 2021 report . by the way , that be Reform UK ' s policy . Sue Edwards from Ashfield be a BCSSS pensioner who have ask I to keep push on this issue . she say that although woman member never work underground , their contribution should never be forget . Sue be right : we should never forget the contribution make by woman at our colliery . there be about 800 member of the BCSSS in Ashfield . one of they be Paddy Gumley , who will be watch the debate right now . he send I an email yesterday , which say : " Dear Lee , thank you for your email regard the forthcoming debate on the BCSSS … we will watch out to ensure that the Treasury give sensible answer to your question … and hopefully … will … bring this matter to a satisfactory conclusion . we be quite happy for you to use our name should you think it necessary . again , I wish to advise you that I be now over 80 year old and have recently be treat for cancer , so time … be of the essence . " I think we all know what Paddy mean : in plain English , " please give I my money before I die . " none of we be get any young , and transfer the investment fund now to member would allow pensioner to live a more dignified life in their final year . it would also put ten of million of pound back into local coalfield community , help local shop and business prosper . let we not forget that if these pensioner get this extra money , they will be tax on that extra revenue , which will go back to the Exchequer . the trustee have two simple request : the return of the £ 2 . 3 billion investment reserve to the member as soon as possible this year , and a commitment to review how any future surplus will be share out after the investment reserve be return . I have yet to find a coalfield MP who do not agree with those simple request . Most coalfield be now represent by Labour MPs , and I be really hopeful that in the four year they will still be here , they will put pressure on the Treasury and the Government to provide justice for member of the BCSSS . I sincerely hope that many of the Labour Members in the Chamber will be here for more than four year . the key point that the hon . Member allude to be the need for we to work effectively together , recognise that , as he describe , we have a whole range of constituent who would benefit from the BCSSS be treat differently . do he therefore welcome the constructive way in which Labour Members be work ? yes , I like to be constructive . the hon . member for Mansfield have not be so constructive ; he have use the debate to try to score political point . I be use the debate to try to get justice for the member of the BCSSS . the trustee be disappoint by the previous Conservative Government , and they be a little bit disappointed with the current Labour Government , who they feel have drag their heal in deal with the BCSSS . they have deal with the mineworker ' pension scheme much quick . we be all ex - mineworker , and we should be treat fairly . I know the trustee have meet the Minister today . I have speak to the chief integrate funding adviser and the feedback be that it be a positive meeting , and the Minister once again appear receptive to the request put forward by the trustee but stop short of say she fully support those request . there be a very simple solution to all this . just give we our money back — it be our money — and let we discuss the future surplus sharing agreement . we ex - miner should not be a cash cow for the Treasury . I could go into all the fact and figure in this debate , but it be simple . it be about give back to the mining community what it be owe . not only do the miner of the past help create the Labour party , but they give their money to the cause through their union donation . it be time to pay back the miner ; there should be no excuse . let we imagine two brother in their 70 who spend 40 year each down the pit . one be in the MPS and the other in the BCSSS . they work side by side underground . the brother in the MPS have just have a 50 % uplift in his pension thank to this Labour Government , but the one in the BCSSS have have nothing . that can not be right ; it be not fair . I hear people in this bubble in Westminster say that young people would not go down the pit these day , but you be all wrong — every single one of you . in the coalfield community , mining , hard graft and a sense of working - class pride be in our dna . when the time come for mining community to step forward and go back underground , the descendant of our brave miner will do their duty . that time will come , mark my word . in the meantime , it be time for this place to deliver justice for the miner . I would like to hear the Minister state from that Dispatch Box that she fully support the trustee ' two main request and that she agree that the whole of the investment reserve fund , and not just part of it , should be share out . there be a saying when I work underground and all the pit be shut . it be : " have we hear owt , duck ? " that be what ex - miner be say right now to their pit mate , so I say to the Minister , who I know have be speak to the Treasury and the trustee : have you hear owt , duck ? I thank the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) for secure this debate , and I welcome the opportunity to set out the Government ' s position on the BCSSS . there be a lot of hon . member in attendance . many have long association with the coalfield community they represent , and I know that this be an incredibly important issue to many people across the country . it be also a matter of great importance to I , and I be pleased to be speak to the House follow a meeting I have with the BCSSS trustee this afternoon . when we speak of the mineworker ' pension , we speak of everyone who have sustain our pit , such as my constituent Anthony Peck , who join the scheme age 17 , and Kevin Jowle , automatically enrol when he become a deputy , without any consultation . do the Minister agree that everyone deserve a fair pension and compensation for the £ 3 . 2 billion that the Treasury have receive to date ? we believe that everybody deserve a fair pension , and I totally agree with my hon . friend . I want to set out where we have get to . as member will be aware , this Labour Government commit in their manifesto to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , and I be incredibly proud to deliver on that commitment last October . we commit to transfer the investment reserve fund back to member and review the surplus arrangement so that the mineworker who power our country receive a fairer pension . I be incredibly proud that , after only three month in power , the Chancellor announce the transfer of that investment reserve fund at the Budget in October . this be the action of a Labour Government overturn an historic injustice that the previous Government have fail to act on . do the Minister agree that it be thank to campaigner such as Bobby Clelland in my constituency and to the local party that we have manage to succeed in have the MPS move towards a resolution and see that money be pay out to those community in the coalfield in my constituency ? it be also thank to people such as Alan Kenney in my constituency , who be lead the campaign in Scotland on the BCSSS . I hope that she will be able to give we some good news . do she agree that this be thank to those former miner who be always stand up for their community and still fight now for the justice they deserve ? of course my hon . friend be right . I want to thank everybody who have campaign and work for so long on the mineworker ' pension and everybody who have be in touch with I and with colleague across the House on the BCSSS . one of the most humbling event I have be to in my political life be speak to former miner follow the announcement on the mineworker ' pension . I be incredibly grateful to the many people who have campaign and who be get in touch and show we how important this be . of course , we completely understand it . this be a new topic to I personally . I be contact by a constituent whose late husband , a good friend of mine , Michael Green , work for British Coal at the time . he too be passionate that this money should be return to the miner . do the Minister agree that we need to get on with this and get this to happen as quickly as possible ? we be certainly move as fast as we can . I will explain where the process have get to , and I hope that member will be reassure . the transfer of £ 1 . 5 billion from the mineworker ' pension boost pension by 32 % , which be an average increase of £ 29 a week for each member . the hon . member for Ashfield make the point that this be about put money not just into people ' s pocket but into local community , and that be incredibly important . I also understand that in the context of the BCSSS in exactly the same way . my official be work closely with the trustee of the mineworker ' pension on the review of the future surplus sharing arrangement , and we hope to come forward with proposal and reach an agreement on that soon . have work closely with the coalfield community on the delivery of the mineworker ' pension , I completely recognise the strength of feeling on the BCSSS . I want to place on record my sincere thank on behalf of my constituent and the people who work in the mining industry across the country for the fantastic work the Minister be do in relation to the finance in the mineworker ' pension scheme . might she be able to inform the House what the main difference be between the MPS receive the money and the challenge with regard to the BCSSS ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word , and I will do exactly that and set out what the challenge and the difference be . have a process of work ongoing with the mineworker ' scheme and work out how we will do surplus sharing , we be now work on the BCSSS and what we do in that space , even though it be not a manifesto commitment . I write to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury in February and secure his agreement to undertake a similar review of the BCSSS , and that review be now well under way . the scheme be not identical . they be different , and the main difference be that there be currently no surplus share arrangement in the BCSSS . that be because they be remove in 2015 follow two deficit valuation . the situation at that time mean that member be unlikely to realise any increase to their pension for a decade or more , and the Government risk have to find new money to fund pension . change be therefore make , and an agreement be reach with the then Government that bonus pension increase would be pay for three year and that the scheme would invest so as to ensure that pension could be pay , with the aim of return the reserve to the Government in 2033 . that be the main difference . I meet the BCSSS trustee , to whom I be grateful . we be work well together and will continue to do so . I first meet they in April , during which I share my determination to move at pace — that be a Government say , isn ' t it ? but we will genuinely move as fast as we can on the review and to start that process for the Government and trustee , and we jointly commission analysis from the Government Actuary to inform our decision making . I have hear from many of my constituent affect by the BCSSS , and many be advanced in age so there be a real need for speed . I appreciate the Minister set out how committed she be to get this sort as quickly as possible and would appreciate hear about any further thing she could do to expedite it . I completely appreciate my hon . friend ' s comment . I think everybody in this House share they , and I feel that strongly and be committed to do exactly that . we have recently receive the analysis from the Government Actuary on the option for make a transfer to scheme member . because we receive that information , I have a meeting with the trustee today to hear their view on that analysis . at that meeting , I commit to move at speed . my official be meet the Treasury tomorrow . we be go to put a recommendation to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , and I make a commitment to meet the trustee again before the summer break so we continue to make progress as fast as we can . I be proud to have support the BCSSS campaign since long before I become an MP , and I have continue to support it . I pay tribute to the campaigner in my constituency , include ex - miner Tony Jones , who give I a badge that I wear with pride . I be grateful to the Minister for her engagement with BCSSS trustee and we as coalfield mp . however , many of my constituent be often elderly , in poor health and desperate for a resolution . give that the investment reserve be already hold within the scheme and its return would not require any new public spending , will the Minister continue to work hard to ensure that these defer pension be rightly return as quickly as possible to their rightful owner ? that be certainly what we be work to do . because the two scheme be slightly different , the way the Treasury have to interact and think about these thing be slightly different , but we have do this Government Actuary process , and we meet the trustee today . we will now put our recommendation to the Chief Secretary to the Treasury — I know that a lot of my hon . friend be talk to he about this issue whenever they can . while I have a desire to move at speed , I hope colleague will appreciate that we also need to ensure that we get this absolutely right , and that any spending decision be carefully consider , especially give the role that the Government have as the guarantor to both the mineworker ' pension scheme and the BCSSS . I want to assure all hon . member that I be do all I can to reach an agreement and improve the condition for member as soon as possible . the Minister have be good today , actually , at the Dispatch Box , so I thank she for that . a lot of positive thing have come out of this Adjournment debate . I have one question : be the scheme run at a surplus and if so , by how much ? I will not give figure , but the scheme be do well . that be in part because of the trustee and the action they have take , and the investment and process they have undertake . while the 2015 situation cause there to be a change in the way it be manage , it be now run well , and people can be reassure about that . I recognise that for many in coalfield community , delivery on the mineworker ' pension scheme have only heighten the sense of injustice about the BCSSS — I hear and feel that and be determined to take action on it . for my 719 BCSSS member , with the scheme look quite healthy now , do the Minister have that oomph to push it forward and expedite it as quickly as possible to get they justice ? I certainly have oomph , yes , and I be work as fast as I can on this . I will not talk now about the wide support that we be offer people in our former coalfield community , but a whole raft of Government intervention be there to support people . my constituent Robert Ferguson echo many of the point make by the constituent of the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) about the difference between family who work side by side , whereby one benefit and one do not . I know that the Minister have a rather full portfolio — there be many other thing that I constantly nag she about — but will we wait for the Treasury , which be not know for its speed in make decision , or could interim arrangement be put in place to give some of the surplus back to the BCSSS , or something that allow a demonstration of progress while we wait for the Chief Secretary to come to a decision ? I would not want to give the impression that this decision be wait on the Chief Secretary to the Treasury to say yes . that be not the case . we have to go through the correct process to get it over the line , because it be not in the manifesto ; it be a different scheme and we must go through the proper process . I hope that my hon . friend understand that . it would probably cause more trouble than not to give part but not all of the surplus back , because people would wonder why we be do that . we want to resolve this properly and quickly . the two outcome that the hon . member for Ashfield refer to , and which the trustee want , be goal that we all share , but we have to do this properly by go through the right process and ensure that we be not put word into the mouth of our Treasury official and colleague before it be right to do so . my commitment be to work at pace on this . as I say , my official be meet the Treasury tomorrow , and we be meet the trustee before the summer . I have two quick point . first , as the Minister carry out those meeting — I wish she well — will she consider meet some of we from coalfield community , to facilitate that conversation ? secondly , she have just touch on the industrial strategy . she know my view on the BCSSS and its importance to many people in Newcastle - under - Lyme . that industrial strategy must be feel by people not just in Newcastle - under - Lyme but up and down our country , particularly in coalfield community . as it be finalise , I urge she to give a thought to we — that be really important . I hope that she will find time to meet we soon . I be always very happy to meet my colleague , particularly my hon . friend . I be very happy to meet anybody in receipt of or campaign on the BCSSS . my door be always open . he be right , of course , that our industrial strategy need to do something that we have not have for so long : it need to grow our economy across the country , not just in certain area . we want the industrial strategy to do just that . I will end by say that , as politician , we know that people find it very hard to trust we and what we will deliver , in part because they have be let down so many time over so many year , but I hope that they have note our delivery of the mineworker ' pension scheme within three month of come into office . I understand the frustration and need for speed because the people concern be get old . we know that many people pass away before they could get the mineworker ' pension scheme . the same be true during the long time that we have be talk about these issue . now , I hope that people can see that we mean it when we look to work at pace on the BCSSS . I be mindful of the fact that hon . member do not have to be present at Adjournment debate , but do it not say everything that there be not a single Conservative MP here this evening — although there be a former one — to discuss this issue of importance not just to Newcastle - under - Lyme but to the whole United Kingdom ? I will let anybody watch the debate draw their own conclusion on that front , but it be there for all to see . I thank the hon . member for Ashfield for secure the debate and many hon . friend for their representation . the Labour Government be absolutely committed to address the BCSSS . I look forward to update member on our progress towards improve pension for all our former miner and correct these historical injustice . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division Electricity that the draft contract for difference ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 2 April , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Claire Hanna Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Shockat Adam Jim Allister Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Alex Easton Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 350 , Noes 176 . question accordingly agree to .