Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Horizon : Prosecution of Postmasters whether he have have recent discussion with the Advocate General for Scotland on the prosecution of postmaster use evidence from the Horizon IT system . as you know , Mr Speaker , the Secretary of State have suffer a family bereavement this week , so will not be with we today . I be sure that the whole House will wish to send he and his family our deep condolence . can we also pause to think about the community , include those in my own area in the scottish border , that have be devastate by the recent storm ? I know that the emergency service , council and power company worker be support they as well they can . lastly , Mr Speaker , I wish you a happy Burns night , which will be celebrate around the world tomorrow . the ongoing situation with the Post Office and Horizon be clearly very serious . we need to ensure that all sub - postmaster wrongly prosecute finally get justice , no matter where they reside in the UK . I assure the hon . Lady that my official be work at pace with the office of the Advocate General and other key UK Government Departments to consider the issue around wrongful conviction . in Scotland , these prosecution be carry out by the Crown Office and the procurator fiscal . minister of the Crown be make aware of concern around potentially unsafe prosecution in 2013 . can the Minister tell the House why it take so long for the prosecution to be halt and for previous conviction to be review ? the Horizon scandal be one of the great miscarriage of justice in this country ' s history , with hundred of people have their life ruin and reputation drag through the mud . the Prime Minister have announce new law that will be introduce to ensure that those wrongly convict be exonerate and swiftly compensate here in England . as the hon . Lady will know , the administration of justice be devolve , but the UK Government be in contact with the Scottish Government to explore the most effective way to exonerate and compensate those innocent people . I call the shadow Minister . I pass the thought of the Opposition to the Secretary of State at this difficult time , and join the Minister in his comment about all those affect by flooding . the scandal of the unjustified prosecution of sub - postmaster the length and breadth of this country be almost beyond word . although it should not have take a tv drama to get action , it be good that those find guilty in England will now have their conviction quash , but meanwhile , in Scotland , we be no clear on how those wrongly convict will get justice . the First Minister initially claim that he would be happy for this Parliament to legislate for every victim across the UK , but his Lord Advocate then say that she do not support blanket exoneration . what be the Minister do to ensure that those who be wrongly convict in Scotland finally get the justice they deserve ? official from the UK Government be work with their counterpart from the various devolved administration , include the Scottish Government , to fully understand the legislative option that be available across the respective jurisdiction . I reassure the hon . member that it remain a priority for all concerned to ensure that those sub - postmaster receive justice , and the compensation to which they be entitle , as quickly as possible , irrespective of where they live in the United Kingdom . oil and Gas Industry what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support for the oil and gas industry in Scotland . oil and gas be , and will remain , a vital sector for the UK . the UK Government be commit to support the industry . that be why last week I attend the Grangemouth future industry board with other UK and Scottish Government Ministers on the transformation of the Grangemouth oil refinery . the introduction of the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill demonstrate our ongoing investment in the industry . my hon . friend know that Scotland have the potential to be one of the world ' s most advanced producer of hydrogen , and oil and gas company be play an important role in that transition . what be the Department do to support oil and gas company , which employ a huge number of people in Scotland and in my seat of Rother Valley , in build their hydrogen production , transmission and use capability , to ramp up the production of hydrogen so that we can get more of the low - carbon energy that we so need ? we anticipate that by 2030 the UK ' s grow hydrogen sector could support more than 12 , 000 job and unlock £ 11 billion worth of private investment . our hydrogen production delivery road map set out proposal for annual hydrogen allocation round from 2025 to 2030 , help to provide certainty for the industry . in December , we announce the result of hydrogen allocation round 1 , with Scotland field two successful project . the renewable sector provide the great job growth for Scotland ' s energy sector , with the number of job in the renewable sector in Scotland grow by more than 50 % in 2021 . the future of Scotland ' s job security , energy and economy lie with renewable . when will the UK Government finally match support for the Scottish Government ' s £ 500 million just transition fund ? the SNP ' s position on energy , particularly in relation to oil and gas , be frankly all over the place . we do not know where the First Minister of Scotland stand on this . he describe develop Rosebank as " the wrong decision " , but now seem to think that oil reserve can fund capital investment in an independent Scotland . we fully recognise the importance of the energy sector to Scotland . that include oil and gas and renewable . I will continue to work with all part of the energy sector to develop that for the scottish economy . level up what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the future of level up in Scotland . the UK Government ' s funding for level up have now reach more than £ 2 . 9 billion in Scotland . that include almost £ 900 million of new funding announce last year . that be the equivalent of £ 535 per person in Scotland , and the total be set to rise with million of pound of further investment in 2024 . the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , will meet I on Friday , but sadly that be not a courtesy that have be extend to the leader of Dundee City Council , who have repeatedly invite the Minister to a roundtable in the city to discuss funding that be critical to project such as the Eden Project , and the life sciences innovation district among other . I have seek to continue the long - term investment and regeneration of the city through those project in the Tay Cities region deal . will the Minister assure I that he will urge his colleague to include those in our discussion on Friday and that his dreadful lack of engagement be from a UK Government that be commit to level up , not an outgoing Government wind down ? the UK Government be invest more than £ 60 million in project in Dundee , and those project have be identify as key priority by Dundee City Council and other local partner . the hon . member mention the leader of Dundee City Council . after receive £ 20 million for Dundee from UK levelling - up fund , the SNP leader of Dundee council recently say , " this be just the UK Government element . I ' m pursue the Scottish Government as well , because we need both government to work with we if we ' re to make significant economic inroad into the challenge we face . " I hope the hon . Member will agree to write a joint letter with I to his SNP colleague in Holyrood ask , " where be the money ? " we now come to SNP spokesperson . on behalf of myself and my colleague , I ask the Minister to also convey our condolence to the Secretary of State . we be give assurance prior to Brexit that the structural fund that provide the capital funding for Scotland would be replace by specific levelling - up and share prosperity funding after Brexit . can the Minister say how that funding from those source compare to what it be prior to leave the EU ? four year since the United Kingdom leave the EU , the UK Government have announce more than £ 1 . 4 billion for new levelling - up initiative across Scotland . that exceed the entire seven - year budget for the EU structural and investment fund for Scotland for 2014 to 2020 — roughly £ 780 million of funding — so I do not accept the analysis the hon . member present . well , no , it do not actually , because this Government have a tendency to draw all source of capital funding into its levelling - up myth . I be talk about the specific levelling - up fund and the share prosperity fund . they have give Scotland £ 471 million and £ 212 million respectively . that be exactly £ 98 million short of the £ 780 million that come from the EU structural fund , so when can we have the money please ? the hon . member be simply not correct : £ 2 . 9 billion have be invest by this government into community the length and breadth of Scotland . I know that SNP Members have fight tooth and nail to stop that investment be deliver to those local community , but this Conservative Government will continue to invest directly into Scotland . Nursing Bursaries whether he have have discussion with the Scottish Government on funding for nursing bursary for those study in Scotland . funding policy for those study in Scotland , include nursing student , be a matter for the Scottish Government . the UK Government support collaboration between our nation to share good practice and provide well healthcare service . we would be open to future discussion with the Scottish Government about this matter . my constituent have be deny additional funding for her nursing degree because she be domicile in England but study in Scotland , whereas those study in England can access the funding regardless of where they be domicile . what advice can the Government give I to help my constituent ? nursing bursary for those wish to study in Scotland be a matter for the Scottish Government . unfortunately , the Scottish Government only provide bursary support for Scottish - domicile nursing student , and only if they be enrol in a course that lead to a diploma in Scotland . in contrast , the UK Government ensure that the learn support fund be available to all UK student study at english university , regardless of where they be domicile . I will be happy , on behalf of the hon . Lady , to set up a meeting with my colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to see how we might be able to pursue the matter far . leave the EU : Import and Export Requirements whether he have make a recent assessment of the impact of import and export requirement follow the UK ' s exit from the EU on scottish business . whether he have make a recent assessment of the impact of import and export requirement follow the UK ' s exit from the EU on scottish business . the late official figure speak for themselves and show sustained increase in both the import and export of good between Scotland and the EU , with healthy result for service too . the Brexit pain continue , with £ 140 billion wipe off the UK economy and more regulation make it tough for exporter . relative to similarly sized country , Scotland ' s export be under real pressure . two theme in the First Minister ' s industrial strategy be to become an independent nation and to rejoin the EU . all the evidence point to the fact that that be the correct course of action , do it not ? no , it do not . Scotland continue to punch above its weight in export , good and service and foreign direct investment . trade be now well above pre - Brexit level . accord to the Government ' s own figure , new Brexit control will cost the UK £ 330 million . business in Glasgow be tell I they be already suffer from increase cost and red tape when import part and export good . can the Minister explain to business in my Glasgow North West constituency how Brexit be good for they ? the hon . Lady and the SNP really do have a brass neck speak about business cost , give their own policy of set up a hard border at Berwick , next to my constituency . that would risk thousand of job and force thousand of company out of business — it would be a most damaging and reckless economic step . we will work through any short - term issue , but the answer be not the long - term decline propose by the SNP . scottish Economy what recent step his Department have take to help support the scottish economy . support economic growth in Scotland remain a core priority of the Scotland Office . we be focus on long - term economic growth , generate more job and boost business investment . that be exemplify by investment of up to £ 372 million in the scottish freeport and investment zone programme , on top of our £ 1 . 5 billion - worth of investment into growth deal across the whole of Scotland . the former right hon . member for Kingswood and Government net zero tsar , Chris Skidmore , say that what business and investor need from the Government be certainty , clarity , consistency and continuity . never have that be more true than in Scotland , where there be huge potential for business and community to flourish as a result of the green transition . however , they be not get the certainty , clarity , consistency and continuity that they need from this government , be they ? I do not accept that analysis . for example , the UK have a world - lead ambition to deploy up to 50 GW of offshore wind by the year 2030 , with up to 5 GW come from offshore float wind . offshore wind provide secure , domestically generate electricity and will play a key role in decarbonise the UK power system by 2035 , achieve net zero by 2050 . I do not share the hon . Lady ' s analysis of this Government ' s focus in that area . do the Minister share my frustration that , while his Department be work to support the scottish economy , the SNP be hit it with high taxis and be not support vital sector such as hospitality in the way that be happen in England ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . sadly the SNP ' s sole focus seem to be independence referendum and make Scotland the part of the United Kingdom with the high tax . I see that every day of the week in my constituency , as people find it increasingly difficult to justify remain in Scotland when they be pay so much more tax compare with the rest of the UK while get less good public service . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I join the Minister in pass on our condolence to the Secretary of State and his family on their bereavement . I also wish everyone a happy Burns day for tomorrow . I thank the wonderful Ayrshire musician in the Public Gallery , who treat we to some entertainment last night . since the Government have be in power , work people have pay on average 10p on the pound more in tax . the supposed party of low tax have create the high tax burden on work people in 70 year , make this the big tax - raise Parliament since record begin . in Scotland , the SNP have look at that tax burden and say , " hold my beer , " as everyone earn more than £ 28 , 000 pay even more tax than they would in England . what impact do the Minister think that historically high tax burden have on the scottish economy ? the Government remain focused on reduce the tax burden when it be prudent to do so , but as the hon . Gentleman identifie , we have an additional challenge in Scotland in the high tax agenda put forward by the SNP Scottish Government . I share his concern about the impact that that be have on the ability of the scottish economy to perform to its full potential . the Minister seem to think that have your pocket pick for £ 10 and get £ 2 back be something to be grateful for . the fact be that work people all across the country , include in Scotland , be pay for the Tories ' crash of the economy . we know that the Barnett formula result in an additional £ 19 billion of public spending in Scotland ' s economy , but last week the National report that the SNP be be encourage by its sister party in Wales to join the campaign to ditch the funding formula . sixteen year of SNP Government have leave Scotland ' s public finance with a £ 1 billion black hole . we be in the middle of the bad cost of live crisis in generation , yet historically high taxis be already be impose on work people to pay for it . lose the Barnett formula would devastate Scotland ' s public finance and economy like nothing we have see before . will the Minister join I in demand that the SNP rule out the policy to bin the Barnett formula ? the big enemy of the Barnett formula and of devolution in Scotland be the SNP . it want to rip up the devolution settlement and stop the Barnett formula , which result in million of pound of extra investment go into Scotland each year . the Conservative Government remain absolutely committed to devolution , the Barnett formula and more investment into Scotland . Co - operation with Northern Ireland Businesses whether he be take step to promote co - operation between business in Scotland and Northern Ireland . the United Kingdom Government have take action to make trade between Scotland and Northern Ireland easy . the UK Government have also commit to provide funding to deliver target improvement to the A75 . that will provide well link between the cairnryan ferry terminal serve Northern Ireland and south - west Scotland , benefit business on both side of the north channel . the Minister will , like many , understand that the economic powerhouse of the United Kingdom be usually centre in the south - east of England , to the detriment of the south - west of Scotland and Northern Ireland . will he do more to ensure that that small 12 - mile stretch of water between Scotland and Northern Ireland be bridge in business term by great co - operation and expansion opportunity for people on either side of it ? the hon . Member make an important point . I fully recognise the strong link between south Scotland and Northern Ireland , and the potential to enhance those economic tie be great . improved transport link , include the A75 and ferry link , be undoubtedly part of that . I look forward to work with he to see how we might be able to enhance and improve those link . I call the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . scottish business would give their right arm to have the arrangement that northern irish business have , with their access to the single market and all the competitive advantage that that bring . the Prime Minister have describe Northern Ireland as one of the " world ' s most exciting economic zone " . do the Minister agree with that , and what be he do to ensure that Scotland get the same arrangement ? I think that the hon . Member be go to stand up and tell I how great the House of Lords be , a bit like his colleague the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) , in a sort of pre - emptive job application . Scotland be not Northern Ireland and do not share a land border with an EU country . it be disappointing that the SNP be seek to play party politic with the situation in Northern Ireland , which , as the SNP well know , have a unique place in the United Kingdom , and we will protect that . promote Scotland Overseas what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on promote Scotland overseas . the UK Government work tirelessly to promote scottish interest around the world through our extensive diplomatic network , forge business link and generate trade and investment . our response to the Scottish Affairs Committee ' s recent inquiry on Scotland ' s international position highlight the extensive effort we undertake to achieve this . I be afraid that I do not share the Minister ' s panglossian view of this issue . do he share my concern about recently publish figure that show that , in the year 2019 to 2021 , scottish export to the EU fall from £ 16 . 95 billion to £ 14 . 97 billion ? whatever the UK Government be do , it be not work , so the Scottish Government have a press need to promote ourselves overseas for the sake of our economy and our society . do the Minister agree that now be the time to increase that overseas promotion , not cut it back due to domestic wrangle ? give the hon . member ' s interest in this area , perhaps he could speak with his SNP colleague in the Scottish Parliament . they be cut funding to South of Scotland Enterprise , which will mean less support for business in the south of Scotland to grow , innovate and export . perhaps he could tell the First Minister of Scotland that promote Scotland overseas begin with support business at home in Scotland . Ambulance Waiting Times what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on ambulance wait time in Scotland . the UK Government recognise the important job that all NHS worker do , include those in the ambulance service . I see that every day of the week in my own constituency in the Scottish Borders . the UK Government would be open to explore with the Scottish Government how we can work together and share good practice to reduce ambulance waiting time in all part of the United Kingdom . last year in Scotland , almost 3 , 000 people have to wait more than eight hour for an ambulance , but in recent day , woman who might have to travel a two and a half hour drive to Raigmore Hospital in Inverness to give birth or for specialist treatment have not be able to travel at all , because the road have be close owe to the terrible weather we have have . do the Minister share my deep anxiety for any woman who live over 100 mile from Raigmore Hospital ? I share the hon . member ' s concern and agree that those long distance be not acceptable , but it tell we all we need to know about the NHS in rural Scotland . NHS Highland have say that it will need to substantially reduce spend follow the SNP Government ' s budget in December . the SNP Government be take a slash - and - burn approach to the rural NHS across Scotland . scottish Economy : Autumn Statement 2023 what assessment he have make of the impact of the autumn statement 2023 on the scottish economy . the autumn statement support family and set out measure to grow the scottish economy . with a strong fiscal outlook , the Government have the space to cut taxis for hard - work people and business . that be highlight by cut to national insurance , benefit 2 . 4 million people in Scotland , and the extension of full expensing , ensure that the UK have one of the most competitive business tax regime in the world . order . will member please not walk in front of other member while they be ask question ? the Minister be correct that the autumn statement from this UK Conservative Government provide tax cut for million of scot , provide support for business and invest to grow the economy . that be in stark contrast to the SNP ' s budget last month , which hike taxis on hard - work scot , fail to pass on support to the hospitality , retail and tourism sector , and have be widely criticise across Scotland . do the Minister agree , as I do , with Sir Tom Hunter , who say at the weekend that the business community in Scotland do not believe that the SNP have its back , and do he agree that that must change ? I agree with my hon . friend , and Sir Tom be right too . trader in Scotland have accuse the SNP Government of undermine the rejuvenation of high street across Scotland with their tax hike of 6 . 7 % through business rate . the SNP must stop attack employer and high - street trader who be already under tremendous financial strain because of the SNP ' s mismanagement of Scotland ' s economy . despite devolution render it pointless , the budget of the Scotland Office , along with that of the Attorney General , have jump by over £ 3 million since 2018 - 19 — it leapt up by £ 1 . 2 million just last year — while the Scottish Government ' s budget allocation suffer a real - term cut . around 80 people currently work for the Scotland Office in Queen Elizabeth House alone , along with around 30 civil servant from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . what on earth be they do , and how do the Minister justify that to the scottish taxpayer ? the team at the Scotland Office , both in Dover House and in Queen Elizabeth House in Edinburgh , be do a tremendous job support Scotland across the United Kingdom and around the world . I would be very happy to welcome the hon . Lady to meet some of they with I , so that she can understand more clearly the important work that they do on our behalf across the UK . rise — order . that complete scottish question . we now come to Prime Minister ' s question , but I just want to announce to the House that we be join today by the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic — welcome . hear , hear . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 24 January . I know that member across the House will want to join I in offer our good wish to his Majesty the King and her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , this afternoon I shall be meet the extraordinary 100 - year - old holocaust survivor Lily Ebert . Lily promise that , if she survive Auschwitz , she would tell the world the truth of what happen . never have such a promise be so profoundly fulfil . as we prepare to mark Holocaust Memorial Day on Saturday , I be sure the whole House will join I in reaffirm our promise to Lily that we will never forget the holocaust and we will carry forward her life ' s work for generation to come . can I echo the Prime Minister ' s comment on International Holocaust Memorial Day ? my constituent , like all of our constituent , rely on the Royal Mail to deliver important item of mail and package , and for people to run their business , so they will be very alarmed to learn of the proposal from Ofcom that Royal Mail might be allow to cut the number of day that it will provide that service . will the Prime Minister give a commitment to I here today that , on his watch , there will be no reduction in the postal service provide by the Royal Mail in Scotland or anywhere else ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman about the importance of the Royal Mail ' s universal service obligation . as the hon . Member will have hear this morning from the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , we remain absolutely committed to ensure that it remain as it be . the Lib Dem - run council in Eastleigh have just receive a report from its external auditor warn of the possibility of fraud and ignore whistleblower who try to warn it . do the Prime Minister agree that Lib Dem leader who shun accountability , shun transparency and simply say , " not I , guv , " should start show some remorse and responsibility , or make way for those who will ? my — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the answer . my hon . friend raise an important matter to the people of Eastleigh , which I be pleased to discuss with he on my recent visit to his area , and I know that the content of the report be deeply concern . it be disappointing to see this Lib Dem - run council rack up debt with absolutely no plan for how to fund it . the council have be issue with a good value notice , and I know that he be talk to the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , which will be monitor this situation closely . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . thank you , Mr Speaker . can I join the Prime Minster in his comment about his Majesty the King and her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales , and in his comment about Holocaust Memorial Day ? " never again " must be say more defiantly this year , as it be say every year . last week , we lose Sir Tony Lloyd , a true public servant who touch the life of many people across the House and across the country . I be glad that his family be here yesterday to hear the many tribute to and memory of Tony . he will be greatly miss . the Prime Minister have have quite a week — from endlessly fight with his own mps to collapse in laughter when he be ask by a member of the public about NHS waiting list — so I be glad to hear that he manage to take some time off — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the Prime Minister , and I be certainly go to hear the Leader of the Opposition . those on the conservative Benches who do not want to hear he can certainly leave . that be how it be go to be , so get in order . some of you will be want to catch my eye again , and that be not a good way to do it . I love this quaint tradition where the more they slag he off behind his back , the louder they cheer he here . More ! the same go for those on the Labour Benches . you can have a joint cup of tea . I be glad to see that the Prime Minister manage to get some time off yesterday afternoon to kick back , relax and accidentally record a candid video for Nigel Farage . the only thing miss from that punishing schedule be any sort of governing or leadership . so be he surprised to see one of his own mp say , " he do not get what Britain need . and he be not listen to what … people want . " ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about what Britain need , what Britain want and what Britain value — and that from the man who take the knee , who want to abolish the monarchy , and who still do not know what a woman be . just this week , one of his Front Benchers say that they back teach divisive white privilege in our school . look at his record , it be crystal clear which one of we do not get Britain ' s value . the Prime Minister spout so much nonsense , no wonder they be give up on he . even now , as his government crumble around he and his own mps point out that he be out of touch and have no plan for growth , crime or building house , the Prime Minister be stick to his one - man Pollyanna show — everything be fine ; people should be grateful for he ! the trouble be that no one be buy it . do he actually understand why his own mp say that he do not understand Britain , and that he be an " obstacle to recovery " ? again , the right hon . and learn Gentleman call it nonsense , but these be his position . he do not want to talk about it , but these be the fact . he choose to represent a now - proscribe terrorist group . he choose to campaign against the deportation of foreign national offender , just like he choose to serve the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . that be his record , those be his value , and that be exactly how he should be judge . in 2008 , I be the Director of Public Prosecutions , put terrorist and murderer in jail . the Prime Minister be make million bet on the misery of work people during the financial crisis . we have see this story time and again with this lot : party first , country second . safely ensconce in Westminster , they get down to the real business of fight each other to death . the country be force to endure their division and chaos — the long episode of " EastEnders " ever put to film . meanwhile , this week we discover that Britain be go to be the only major economy that no long make its own steel , that the Government be hand out £ 500 million to make 3 , 000 steelworker redundant , and that the parent of thousand be be tell that his free childcare promise be nothing but a mirage . be he not embarrassed that the Tory party be yet again entirely focused on itself ? yet more snipe from the sideline , Mr Speaker — you can see exactly why Hizb ut - Tahrir hire he in the first place . the right hon . and learn Gentleman want to talk about these thing , but even member of his own party be now realise that he simply do not have a plan for this country . the hon . member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Jon Cruddas ) say that it be difficult to " identify the purpose " of his leadership , and long - time celebrity backer Steve Coogan recently say that " he lick his finger , stick it up in the air , see which way the wind be blow " . even the Labour party know that he be not a leader , he be a human weathervane . it be not the sideline but from behind he that the fire be come . the Prime Minister can try to blame the Labour party all he want , but the difference be that I have change my party ; he be bully by his party . have he find time in his busy schedule to work out why thousand of parent be be tell by their nursery that they will not get the free childcare that he promise they ? let we see what the Labour party be offer the country . we all know that he do not have many idea for our country — [ interruption . ] order . I be go to hear the Prime Minister . one thing that we do know — [ interruption . ] order . member do not want to push it , do they ? no . we do know that the right hon . and learn Gentleman be committed to his 2030 decarbonisation promise , which the opposition say will cost £ 28 billion . I be read about it this week . he say that he have change the party , but one of his team call that promise " an albatross " hang around their neck — that might have be the shadow Chancellor . but he say they be double down on it , and all this be ahead of a crunch meeting this week , we be tell , for the Opposition to work out how they will pay for that . I can save they some time , because we all know the answer : high taxis for the british people . there be only one party that crash the economy , and they be sit right there . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Holmes , you have have your question already . obviously you do not want to remain for the rest of question . the Prime Minister be Mr 25 Tax rise , and he have nothing to say on childcare . million of family will have be listen for an answer , and they get absolutely nothing . he announce the scheme a year ago , claim that it would get 60 , 000 parent back into work . only on Monday this week do he notice that there be , in his word , " some practical issue " with that . eight week before its launch , parent can not budget , plan for work or make arrangement with their employer . the Prime Minister ' s response be to say , " it ' s all fine . it ' s the fault of the Labour party . " be this merely a practical issue , or be it yet another example of he simply not understand how life work for other people ? we be deliver the big ever expansion of childcare in this country ' s history . while million of parent will benefit from that , it be right that the right hon . and learn Gentleman should come clean with they about the cost that his plan will impose on all of they . he go on and on about the green promise . he say he want to keep it , but he do not have a plan to pay for it . what he be really say be that he will scrap the borrowing associate with it , but he want to keep the £ 28 billion of spending . for all those work family who be benefit from our free childcare , why do he not come clean with they now and be clear that his plan mean it be back to square one and high taxis for british people ? make steelworker redundant and fail to provide childcare be not a plan , Prime Minister ; it be a farce . he may soon discover that with childcare there be an it problem , nursery do not have the space , they have not get the staff , there be a black hole in their budget and there be eight week to go . that be not a plan . [ interruption . ] Government member can laugh all they like , but family be make plan now . family be struggle with the cost of living crisis , try to work out the household budget , balance spiral mortgage , price and eye - watering bill , and then at the last minute they be throw into chaos because their nursery say that it can not deliver the free childcare that he promise . he call that a practical issue , but I prefer the honesty of whichever of his colleague brief the Times that it be , and I quote , a complete " shit show " . [ interruption . ] who be it who brief that to the Times ? hand up ! will the Prime Minister finally realise — too long ! order . I will decide how long the question go on for . for those who wish not to hear it , I have tell you the answer , and I will help you on the way . when will the Prime Minister finally realise that the big practical issue face Britain be the constant farcical incompetence of the government he lead ? another week with absolutely no idea for the country and absolutely no plan . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about the cost of living and the economy , but he never actually bring it up , and we all know why : because thing be improve and we be make progress . wage be now rise , debt be on track to be reduce and inflation have more than halve from 11 % to 4 % . he know that our plan be work and that his £ 28 billion tax grab will take Britain back to square one . that be the choice : it be back to square one and high taxis with he , or a plan that be deliver a bright future with the Conservatives . change gear , Mr Speaker . too many oligarch and kleptocrat be live off ill - get gain that be beyond the reach of domestic court here or in country such as America . ever since the 2016 London anti - corruption summit , move to create an international anti - corruption court have be gather momentum to plug the gap . it already have support from country such as Canada , Holland and Nigeria , and it would fund itself from the fine it charge . will the Government take the lead in get it under way , end impunity for those crook once and for all ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work on this issue . as I be sure he will appreciate , establish a new bespoke institution be a significant endeavour , but I know that he have discuss it with the Foreign Secretary , who will look at the proposal in more detail . in the meantime , as he know , our Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 have a raft of new measure to crack down on dirty money , and we will shortly publish our second anti - corruption strategy . we will set out ambitious plan for combat corruption both here at home and internationally . I call the SNP leader . last night , as Tory mp be once again fight among themselves , the public be at home watch John Irvine of ITV News report on footage from Gaza of an unarmed palestinian man walk under a white flag being shoot and kill by the Israel Defence Forces . such an act constitute a war crime , do it not ? we have be absolutely consistent that international humanitarian law should be respect and civilian should be protect . I have make that point expressly to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and the Foreign Secretary be in the region this week make exactly the same point . I do not think it be unreasonable to expect the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to rise to that Dispatch Box and tell the people of these isle and elsewhere that shoot an unarmed man walk under a white flag be a war crime . in recent week , the House have act with urgency and intent follow an ITV drama . the question be , will the House now show the same urgency and intent follow this ITV News report and finally back a ceasefire in Gaza ? no one want to see this conflict go on for a moment long than necessary . we do want to see an immediate and sustained humanitarian pause to get more aid in and , crucially , the hostage out , help to create the condition for a sustainable ceasefire . I have set out the condition for that in the House . the Foreign Secretary be in the region today , and we will continue to press all our ally and partner to make sure that we can bring about that outcome . access to NHS dentistry be a key issue in Ipswich and Suffolk . locally , we have do something about it , and the University of Suffolk and the local NHS deserve great credit for establish a new dental centre that will carry out 18 , 000 hour a year of NHS dental appointment . however , a source of great frustration for I and a number of constituent be that many people who train to be a dentist at university for five year and have their training heavily subsidise can immediately go private or go abroad without give anything back to the NHS . that seem wrong to I . will the Prime Minister support the view of many of my constituent that those dentist should work in the NHS for , say , five year and give something back ? that would make a huge contribution to address the problem . my hon . friend be a long - stand campaigner for well dental access in his constituency . I congratulate he on the new dental centre that be open , which I know he work hard to deliver . I agree that it be right and fair that we seek well value for the significant investment that the taxpayer make in the education and training of the dental workforce . that be why , as our workforce plan outline , we be explore whether a tie - in would ensure that dentist spend a well proportion of their time in the NHS . we will launch a consultation on that policy later this year . in the week of the anniversary of Bloody Sunday , people in Derry be watch unarmed Palestinians be gun down by israeli soldier . over 25 , 000 people have now be slaughter in Gaza . the Prime Minister have say — he have say it again today — that he want to see a sustained ceasefire . my question be a very simple one : the next time there be a vote at the UN for a ceasefire , will his representative vote for it ? of course we will engage with all UN resolution on their merit . I have be clear that no one want to see this conflict go on for a moment long than be necessary . we want to see an immediate pause so that we can get aid in and hostage out , because the situation be desperate for many people there , but a sustainable , permanent ceasefire need to fulfil a set of condition , which include Hamas release all the hostage , Hamas no long be in charge of Gaza with the threat of rocket attack into Israel , and an agreement in place for the Palestinian Authority to return to Gaza to provide governance and service . the Foreign Secretary be in the region . those be the principle on which we be work , and I believe that those be share by all our major ally . in 1859 , Brunel open his rail bridge over the River Tamar . in 2022 , I meet Network Rail and other to celebrate the agreement to build a simple footbridge over the railway line in Lostwithiel . that bridge still do not exist and I have no completion date . can my right hon . friend help ? my hon . friend be a long - stand campaigner for the footbridge at Lostwithiel station . I recognise her concern and the press need for the construction of the footbridge . I be tell that Network Rail be currently work on a funding solution , so that it can take forward this important project in the next financial year . the Rail Minister will keep my hon . Friend update on progress . a report release yesterday by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation find that one in four people in the north - east be live in poverty ; the child poverty rate for every local authority in the region be high than the UK average . too many of our people be be hard hit . the Prime Minister say that his plan be begin to work . where do rise child poverty fit in his plan ? in fact , the plan be work because poverty be fall in our country . there be 1 . 7 million few people in poverty than in 2010 , include hundred of thousand of child . of course there be more to do — there be always more to do — to make sure child do not grow up in poverty , but that absolutely would not be help by labour ' s £ 28 billion tax grab on their parent , which would take money out of their family ' s bank account . Bracknell Forest be a place of aspiration , opportunity and enterprise . business occupancy rate and employment figure be , thankfully , high . footfall at the Lexicon shopping centre be up and wage be up , but the cost of living continue to bite across the UK . what more can be do to put more money in people ' s pocket ? it be great to see , thank to my hon . friend , that Bracknell Forest be thrive , with people in work up and footfall in the town centre up and , as he know , almost 100 % of his school be now good or outstanding . but he be right that we must do more to relieve the burden on work people , which be why we cut taxis for ten of million of people in work early this year , worth £ 450 on average . we have to stick to the plan for low taxis , a strong economy and a bright future for the people of Bracknell Forest , and absolutely not risk go back to square one with the Labour party . if everyone have the same good health as the least deprive 10 % of the population , in England there would have be 1 million few death between 2012 and 2019 , and 28 , 000 few death in the first year of covid . those inequality be not inevitable . do the Prime Minister think that cut in social security to 85 , 000 low - income household , include people in low - pay work in my constituency , will help to address those health inequality ? I can assure the hon . Lady that we be commit to care for society ' s most vulnerable and that be why almost 20 million family will see their benefit payment increase this April . that will bring our total support over these few year to around £ 3 , 700 per UK household . the Department for Work and Pensions be look very closely at how it can target its service precisely on the most vulnerable customer . I know the hon . Lady speak to the DWP permanent secretary at length about that when he appear before the Work and Pensions Committee early this month . I can assure she that he will be write to the Committee on exactly that subject shortly . the Post Office scandal have affect so many people , include my constituent Seema Misra , a sub - postmaster from West Byfleet who have an outstanding record of service to her community , and who be wrongfully convict in 2010 of steal £ 75 , 000 and sentence to prison on her first son ' s birthday while pregnant with her second son . do the Prime Minister agree with I , and more importantly with Seema Misra herself , who be in the Gallery today with her husband Davinder , that she be due a full apology from the Post Office , a full apology from Fujitsu , and proper compensation as a matter of urgency ? I know that my hon . friend have be a great support to his constituent over all these year , and have fight relentlessly for the truth to come out . as I have say , the Horizon scandal be one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history , and , as I say a few week ago , we will introduce primary legislation within week to ensure that all conviction that be base on erroneous Horizon evidence be quash . that will clear people ' s name , deliver justice and ensure swifter access to compensation . innocent people such as my hon . friend ' s constituent have wait far too long , and I be determined that they receive compensation as swiftly as possible . we have a clear moral duty to right these wrong , and that be exactly what we will do . in 2021 , 3 , 527 food parcel be give out by Bestwood & Bulwell Foodbank . last year that number explode to 6 , 500 , with nearly half of those parcel go to child . the food bank be now have to buy food to supplement donation , which can only be sustain for a short period . rather than pretend that thing be get well , will the Prime Minister apologise for the daily chaos in the government which be leave widespread destitution unaddresse ? I do not want to see anyone reliant on food bank , but while they be in place I have nothing but praise and thank for the people who run they . however , it be wrong to say we be not make progress . when I come into this job , inflation be run at 11 % , which have have the single big impact on family ' cost of living . now , thank to the effort of this Government — most of they oppose by the hon . Gentleman ' s party — inflation have be more than halve , at 4 % , and we be combine that with significant tax cut to put more money into people ' s bank account at the end of every month . that be the right way to go about support people , combine with our extensive cost of live support for the most vulnerable . all the statistic show that that support have help and have make a difference , and that be what you get with responsible management of the british economy . in November I hold an Adjournment debate on the south Fylde line and the need for a pass loop to double its hourly service and increase resilience against the delay and cancellation which again cause misery for traveller over Christmas . the assurance that I receive from the Rail Minister build on the positivity generate by the reallocation of hs2 fund . since then progress have be desperately slow , and my effort to advance this critical piece of infrastructure for the people of Fylde have be frustrate . will the Prime Minister meet I to discuss how the Government can help to get the south Fylde line back on track ? my hon . friend be correct : local transport project be and must be prioritise , and every region of our country will have more transport investment as a result of the decision that we make on hs2 . work be under way to consider potential upgrade to the west coast main line , include improvement at Preston station which may support additional local service from south Fylde . I know that the Rail Minister be consider these option carefully as we speak , and will update my hon . friend in due course . Thames Water be a shamble . during the recent flooding in Oxfordshire , it dump sewage from 270 site along the Thames in one week . Waste be back up into people ' s home because of drain that it have not unblocked , and it could not even refill its own reservoir because the river be too dirty . rather than offer a rebate for this shoddy service , Thames Water be intend to put bill up for everyone by 60 % . will the Prime Minister explain to my constituent why they be be ask to foot the bill for Thames Water ' s gross incompetence ? we have be clear that the volume of sewage discharge by water company be unacceptable , and that be why we have launch the most ambitious storm overflow discharge reduction plan . we have now achieve the monitoring of nearly every single storm overflow in England — under this and previous government — and introduce unlimited penalty on water company . where there be evidence of poor performance , the Environment Agency will not hesitate to pursue the water company concern , just as it do , I believe , a couple of year ago in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , when it specifically fine Thames Water £ 4 million follow a serious incident . yesterday the right hon . member for Knowsley ( Sir George Howarth ) and I publish our report on T1DE — type 1 diabete and disorder eating , a condition estimate to affect over a quarter of type 1 diabetic in the UK . it be life - shortening , life - threaten and can lead to death . I be pleased to say that Hampshire integrate care board have already respond positively to the report . will my right hon . friend ensure that the Government not only look seriously at the recommendation that we have put forward but act on those recommendation , which would improve life , save life , and save money for the NHS ? can I start by thank my right hon . friend , and indeed the right hon . member for Knowsley ( Sir George Howarth ) , for their important work on this issue ? I know that both speak from personal experience . as my right hon . Friend say , it be important that people get the treatment they need . the Health Secretary will of course consider the report , and the NHS have already be pilot service to support those with this condition , as she will be aware . I understand that the NHS be now also expand pilot site to every region of the country so that even more people can benefit from the appropriate integrate care . we enter 2024 with starvation and famine as acute as ever across the globe , much of it cause by the climate crisis , yet at present the world ' s bad hunger crisis be in Gaza , create by Israel ' s ongoing siege . the integrate food security phase classification have find that of the 600 , 000 people face starvation globally , 95 % be in Gaza . starvation use as a weapon of war be a war crime . the israeli Government have the power to end this starvation crisis by end the siege of Gaza and open all crossing — do they not , Prime Minister ? I have be absolutely clear that we be incredibly concerned about the devastating impact of the situation in Gaza on citizen . that be why we have triple our humanitarian aid for this financial year to the region and , as I say in the statement yesterday , we be work with partner such as Jordan and the United States to open up new aid corridor so that we can increase the supply of aid get to those who desperately need it . this morning the press report the tragic case of a 14 - year - old girl who take her own life follow horrific social medium bullying , include on TikTok and Snapchat . since 2010 , across the English - speak world , there have be a marked increase in poor teen mental health , teen suicide attempt and child addict to pornography . the United Kingdom have a strong tradition of legislate to protect child from serious threat to their safety and welfare , so do my right hon . friend agree that it be time to consider ban social medium and perhaps even smartphone for under - 16 ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the impact of what happen online on our child , which be why our Online Safety Act 2023 tackle criminal activity online and protect child from harmful or inappropriate content , such as bully or the promotion of self - harm , and from access pornography , and also from exposure to eat disorder . Ofcom be now rightly develop and consult on the guidance and the code of practice for how those platform will meet their duty , and if they do not clean up their act , Ofcom will be able to impose fine of up to 10 % of global turnover on the social medium firm . recently release document reveal that the Foreign Office have serious concern about Israel ' s compliance with international humanitarian law and its ongoing assault on Gaza . this assessment be hide from Parliament while the Prime Minister boldly state his confidence in Israel ' s respect for international law . since then , the scale of Israel ' s war crime in Gaza have be reveal to the world , thank to South Africa ' s case at the International Court of Justice . therefore , be it not now time for the Prime Minister to admit that he have the blood of thousand of innocent people on his hand , and time for he to commit to demand an immediate ceasefire and an ending of the UK ' s arm trade with Israel ? that be the face of the change Labour party . Mr Speaker , may I start by thank you for commission the Holocaust Educational Trust ' s exhibition in Portcullis House , and for your unwavering personal commitment to holocaust remembrance ? as we approach Holocaust Memorial Day , will the Prime Minister join I in commend the Holocaust Educational Trust for its important work , particularly its work with holocaust survivor who , despite live through the dark moment in human history , continue to share their testimony in the hope of ensure " never again . " in the face of the appalling rise in antisemitism that we see on the street of Britain , will my right hon . friend join I in encourage all member to sign the book of commitment and stand up against antisemitism ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the Holocaust Educational Trust for it brilliant work , and I thank she for all her work on this issue . I will be sign the book of commitment this afternoon , during my meeting with Lily Ebert , and I encourage member on both side of the House to do the same and to reaffirm our share determination to ensure that the holocaust be never forget , and to defeat the resurgence of antisemitism and all form of hatred in our country . I represent a proud steel community in Rotherham that stand with the steelworker in Port Talbot at this very worrying time . my constituent do not want to see their taxpayer ' money use to make british worker redundant , our primary steelmaking capacity decimate and our national security compromise , so will the Prime Minister change his destructive course , start by look at the credible multi - union plan to safeguard our steel industry ' s long - term future ? I know that this be an anxious time for steelworker in south Wales , but we be commit to work with the steel sector to secure a positive and sustainable future . the hon . Lady will know that , during the pandemic , we provide support to Celsa to safeguard job and ensure the sustainability of its steel plant in south Wales . the propose complete closure of the plant would have see the loss of 8 , 000 direct job in south Wales , and thousand more across the supply chain . because of the Government ' s investment , support and partnership with Tata , we have safeguard 5 , 000 direct job and thousand more in the supply chain , and we have ensure the long - term sustainability of the steel plant so that it have a bright future . obviously this be difficult , but it be entirely churlish of the hon . Lady not to recognise one of the large support package that any Government have provide to any company , safeguard thousand of job in the process . Extreme Weather Events : Resilience ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State in the Cabinet Office if he will make a statement on the UK ' s resilience to recent extreme weather event , include Storm Isha and Storm Jocelyn . I begin by say how sorry the Government be to hear that four people — two in this country and two in Ireland — sadly lose their life due to storm Isha . I extend my sympathy to their family and friend . at the same time , I praise our emergency and utility worker who work so hard to help the public in very difficult condition . forecaster at the Met Office raise a rare whole - country weather warn for the wind over the weekend , in preparation for Storm Isha . the warning encompass even rare amber and red warning for wind in the area forecast to experience the bad of the storm . indeed , wind gust reach a peak of 99 mph in Northumberland and 124 mph across the Cairngorms . although the storm have the potential to be extremely destructive , the vast majority of the transport and power infrastructure stand up well and recover quickly , which be a credit to the resilience of our critical infrastructure and the response capability of our operational partner on the ground . storm Isha be closely follow by Storm Jocelyn , which reach a peak of 97 mph . I be inform that it be the 10th name storm to impact our country this season . again , the impact of Jocelyn in England be less than fear , with operational partner work around the clock to clear any disruption on our transport and power network . there be no doubt that the forecasting capability of our expert at the Met Office , and the accuracy and speed at which they can warn and inform the public of income severe weather event , save life and protect our home and business . my official and those across government work hard last week and over the weekend to co - ordinate the extensive preparation and mitigation measure that be take . the fact that no escalation to a Cobra - level response be require for either storm be testament to our effective response structure at local and national level . I be very grateful for the response from colleague in the devolved Administrations and local resilience forum across the country . our local authority and agency partner keep public service run and react to any local issue that emerge . we be adapt to weather event not previously experience in our country , and event such as these come with increase frequency and severity . the UK be drive forward cross - Government action to respond to climate risk and their impact on our economy and way of life . our third national adaptation programme , publish in July last year , set out an ambitious five - year programme of work , drive by three theme : action , information and co - ordination . we be ensure a more integrated approach to climate adaptation over the next five year , through strong Government engagement and co - ordinated policymaking . as part of that , we have establish the right Government structure not only to monitor progress , but to tackle strategic cross - cut challenge that will drive the UK ' s resilience to climate change . this be all in line with the Government ' s broad strategy , as set out in the resilience framework , which commit we to strengthen the link between our understanding of the risk that the UK face and the action we take to prevent those risk from materialising . we must continue to drive forward these initiative , which help we to curb the impact of climate change , and at the same time build system that help we to withstand extreme event as they arise . I thank the Minister for his response . recent day have see the UK batter by two severe storm , first storm Isha and then storm Jocelyn — the 10th name storm of this winter . Liz Bentley , chief executive of the Royal Meteorological Society , have say that these storm be " some of the bad in the last 10 year " . our constituent across the country have be hit by widespread damage , flooding , power outage , and the cancellation of flight , ferry and train . in the most tragic circumstance , four people be report to have lose their life . I want to pay tribute to the emergency service worker , electrical engineer and other response team who have be work to help people , restore power and get transport move , often at risk to themselves , in very severe condition . we owe they all a debt of thank . of course , Ministers can not control the weather — indeed , ex - Ministers on the conservative Benches can not even control themselves — but the great regularity and severity of extreme weather demand a response from the Government . let I therefore ask the Minister : give the frequency of extreme weather event , why do the Government not have a stand flood resilience taskforce , as part of the Cobra system , with a specific responsibility for build up long - term protection ? local resilience forum have be neglect since the passing of the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 under the Labour Government . what more can minister do to revive they and make sure they be properly support ? last week , the Public Accounts Committee say the flood protection budget put in place have be underuse since it be announce and be now expect to cover 40 % few property than be first claim . that leave more than 200 , 000 home vulnerable to flooding . what be the Government ' s plan for they ? Jocelyn may be the late storm , but it will not be the last . the very least the public have a right to expect be that their Government | understand that , and be focus on the job and not on whatever be the late episode in the Tory psychodrama that have distract the governance of the country for far too long . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his warm word about our emergency service and utility worker . on his specific point about flooding , he will have hear the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , which be responsible for this area , comment early in the week that , " flooding resilience in England be a priority for DEFRA , as part of a whole - society approach to resilience outline in the UK Government resilience framework . " for example , the Government be invest a record £ 5 . 2 billion in the flood and coastal erosion risk management capital programme . since 2021 , over £ 1 . 5 billion have so far be invest in flood defence project across England , with over 67 , 000 property well protect . of course , the response to flooding be just one part of our resilience work that be co - ordinated by the Cabinet Office . mercifully , very few family be flood out of their home in the storm we have just have , but we be absolutely cognisant of the need to prepare . I hope the right hon . Gentleman will have see the National Audit Office report publish late last year , which note positively that since 2021 the Government have " strengthen the arrangement to manage national risk " ; that they be " take step to address extreme weather risk as whole - system risk " , a point to which I will return in a moment ; and that they have acquire " good forecasting datum for drought , heatwave and storm " . over the past few year , we have see a noticeable improvement in storm preparedness and response . a few year ago , there be still about 40 , 000 people without power three day after Storm Arwen . the storm we have just have be very powerful and about 400 , 000 people lose power to their home , but 99 % of they have their power restore within 24 hour as a result of the planning and preparedness that this Government have put in place . we have learn the lesson . we now have improve public warning , we have harden infrastructure and , crucially , we forward deploy repair expert . when we see storm form over the Atlantic , we signal to local partner in the utility and the emergency service , and they go out and get ready on the ground , do everything from clear storm drain to get ready to repair infrastructure that might be vulnerable . we have well public information . the public be much more connected with the activity of storm . name storm may seem like a superficial change , but we know that be have improve public awareness of what be go on . we have clear travel advice and the Department for Transport be do great work through our operator . we also have superior forecasting . the Government have invest a great deal in compute capacity and forecasting capacity that enable we to see where storm be come from . well co - ordination and deployment of resource from the centre mean that we be work well with partner on the ground and get a well response when extreme event take place . I thank the Minister for his statement and I thank his official in the Cabinet Office who do so much that be often unseen . on those with a high public profile , will he join I in thank the Environment Agency emergency response team for the west midland , the Shropshire fire and rescue team , who have do such a great job , and all the official at Severn Trent Water , Shropshire Council and Telford and Wrekin Council ? the Minister mention national infrastructure ; do he agree that highway fall under that ? will he call on Highways England to do more to ensure that the M54 , an important road in Shropshire and in connect Wales and England , have less flooding in future and to put in place more mitigation and investment to do that ? I join my hon . friend in his word of praise for those who have be work in the west midland . I be sure that my DFT colleague have hear what he say about the critical road in his constituency . it be a little bit cheeky of the Government to take entire responsibility for the improvement . for example , SSE have put improvement in place and do a huge amount of work , for which it deserve credit , so it be not just about the change to forecasting . I thank the resilience partnership that improve the emergency service , the energy company and all the individual who step up to help other in their local community . it be truly a community effort and people come together . I wish the Government would take climate change more seriously , give the incredible amount of extreme weather event we be see right now . it be important for the Government both to talk the talk and to walk the walk when it come to climate change . they should be lead from the front in develop a strategy to help to ensure that we be resilient in the face of climate adaptation and the change that be happen , and they should put the funding in place to ensure that that strategy can be deliver . the Scottish Government need funding to make the change require for resilience . if there be massive geographical disparity in some of the weather event , such as with Storm Arwen , then Barnett may not be the appropriate method to fund some of the require change . in the upcoming Budget process , it might be sensible for the Government to ensure that resilience funding be spread to the area that be most likely to be hard hit , so that rather than Scotland have a percentage share base on our population number , that share be base on the likelihood of extreme climate event . that would be most welcome , particularly when it come to resilience . that be a classic question from the SNP , isn ' t it ? the hon . Lady do not listen to what I have say and then ask for more money . Central Government be absolutely not take all the credit for everything that have happen . as she will have just hear I say , it be our partnership with the people who work in the emergency service , local government , utility company and so on that have make the change possible . on climate change , I be sure the hon . Lady will be pleased to discover that , since peak co2 emission in the mid - 1970 , the UK Government by their action have help to reduce co2 emission by more than 50 % , which be more than any other G7 country . we take these thing seriously and we will continue to do so . I thank both the Minister for his statement and the Government for their clear action to strengthen our nation ' s resilience . as these extreme storm again unleash damage right across the UK , will my hon . friend join I in send our thought to the people whose home , business and farm have be affect , and in pay tribute to the Environment Agency staff , emergency service , local authority , electricity company and volunteer group — such as the Appleby Emergency Response Group in my constituency — which do so much to help people and community through the trauma and aftermath of storm and severe flood ? I be very happy to join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the Appleby Emergency Response Group . so often , it be local community organisation , with their connection and awareness of and intelligence about what be take place on the ground , that make a response possible , so I be very happy to join he in that . I be glad to hear that although his constituency be hit hard by the storm , it have manage to move on quickly . my right hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) ask why the Government have neglect local resilience forum and , indeed , the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 , which they bypass during covid . may I ask that question again ? what lesson have the Government learn from covid and such issue in order to give great sustainability to the local resilience forum that need to protect we ? we obviously learn a great many lesson from covid . as the hon . Lady will be aware from the documentation that the Government have publish over the past couple of year , there have be a great deal of activity to improve our resilience and response to emergency . my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister give a statement to that effect in this House in December . the Cabinet Office assign ownership of acute national risk to lead Government Departments , across risk identification , risk assessment , prevention , resilience , preparation and emergency response and recovery . the lead Government Departments may change between the phase as the impact change and different competency be require . none the less , the UK have adopt a bottom - up approach to manage emergency , as most emergency affect local area . we have local responder such as the police , fire and ambulance service , which manage emergency without direct involvement from the Government . the response to large - scale emergency be then lead by lead Government Departments . it be only in the most serious case that the response be escalate to Cabinet Office briefing room — know as Cobra — and senior Ministers from across Government be bring in . as the hon . Lady will have hear I say , this be very much about a partnership between centre and locality , and we be start to see the benefit of that approach . may I ask my hon . friend to congratulate the good people of Repton and the other village that come together to help with all the flooding that have be go on ? in particular , they be hold follow - up meeting to get more flood warden across South Derbyshire . I have never see anything like the flooding that have take place in South Derbyshire . we need to get the Environment Agency to move on with plan for instal hold pond far up the Trent and the Derwent to stop the run - off from the field that we have have this time round . anything that my hon . friend can do to help I to get spade in the ground on those project would be much appreciated . I very much hear what my hon . Friend say . I know that my colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will have hear likewise . she will have hear what I have to say early about the Department ' s position on flooding . on alert , for instance , normal flood warning be operate . we do not use the national alert because the situation do not reach that threshold , and our local partner do not ask we to use it . from what we can see at this stage , that local system work well and help to protect people and , where possible , property . the consistent storm we have have this winter have mean that our community have feel more consistently batter by flooding and wind than ever before . sadly , as the Minister mention , life be lose at the weekend . ten of thousand of house and business be leave without power . transport link be halt in my Edinburgh constituency — there be no flight out of the airport , no train be go anywhere , and road and bridge be close . thousand of home be flood , yet the National Audit Office have warn that the Government have not set a long - term target for the level of flood resilience that they expect to achieve , and there be no concrete plan to do so beyond 2026 . that mean that any investment could be misplace and inefficient and that home will not be protect sufficiently . do the Minister see that this could be a lack of foresight ? will the Government commit to reverse the current cut to flood protection and do more to ensure that investment be effective ? the hon . Lady will have hear I reflect on what DEFRA say early in the week about the £ 5 . 2 billion of investment in flood and coastal erosion risk management through its capital programme , and the fact that , since 2021 , the Government have put £ 1 . 5 billion into flood - defence project across England . on the hon . Lady ' s first point about the level of disruption , we understand and sympathise with people who have be put in such situation . although we can not control the weather , we can , by degree , become well prepared for event , both through the general resilience plan that the Government have be do and by have well intelligence on storm form over the Atlantic and make sure we have the right people with the right skill poise to act quickly when those storm strike . that , of course , mean that we can minimise disruption to the public , even though we can not eliminate it altogether . in my Broxtowe constituency , some business and home that I have visit have be affect by multiple storm and have receive the flood recovery grant but , as it stand , those who have be affect by Storm Babet and Storm Henk can claim after only one of the flood . be the Government look to put more support in place for individual who have be flood multiple time by separate storm ? my hon . friend raise a very important question . we know how awful it can be for family to be flood out of their home . there be damage to their property and effect , and sometimes to item with sentimental value . it be important that we have process and procedure in place to make sure that we can help people out in those circumstance . on my hon . friend ' s specific point , I will make sure that he get a response from colleague in DEFRA . in scottish question , I speak of how Caithness and north Sutherland be completely cut off . all the road be block during the storm , so a pregnant mum whose contraction have start could not even begin her 100 - mile journey to Raigmore in Inverness to give birth . People speak of the helicopter ambulance ; there be one base in Inverness , but if that have to go to an emergency in Lochaber , on the other side of Scotland , what do the pregnant mum do ? to be quite honest , we be face with a mum and her child die . when the Minister meet the Scottish Government , will he please point out the utter folly of centralise these service in Inverness , when we have a perfectly good , workable hospital in Wick , which should be upgrade and put into full use ? I be happy to communicate that message strongly to the devolved Administration . I have visit Caithness and see its remote beauty , but yes , one can only imagine what it would be like to be a young woman give birth and cut off from major service . I feel that the hon . Gentleman ' s plea for an upgrade at Wick be very important . I thank my hon . friend for his statement . two week ago , Runnymede and Weybridge be flood as a result of storm Henk . when flooding happen locally , my constituent must navigate a host of organisation with different responsibility , include Surrey Fire and Rescue Service , Surrey County Council , Runnymede Borough Council , Elmbridge Borough Council , Thames Water , Affinity Water , the Environment Agency and Surrey Highways . as part of my campaign to improve flood response and preparedness , and protection from flooding , I have be call for a local flood control centre to be a single co - ordinate access point for accessible support and advice , and clear and consistent communication . will the Minister meet I to discuss that ? I be glad that my hon . friend have such a worthy campaign to support his constituent . I will ensure that his request for a meeting go to the most appropriate Minister , who may be able to advise he on how possible his proposal be . accord to the NAO , since plan be first unveil in 2020 the Environment Agency have cut by 40 % its forecast of the number of additional property that will be well protect from flooding by 2027 . in Feltham and Heston , the level of water on our street during storm that be unable to drain away be get high and high . I have to push the Minister on this : be he confident that his plan will be sufficient to keep home and business across the country safe from flood - relate damage ? this be a huge and grow concern . the hon . Lady will have hear I say a moment ago that the NAO be pleased that the Government have take step to address extreme weather as part of a whole - system approach , which can have real advantage when flood be come . for example , it enable appropriately train emergency worker to be send out to clear storm drain and ensure that anything that might make the flood bad be clear out of the way . she will also have hear I say that DEFRA have commit a great deal of money to improve flood defence over the past three or four year , and that ten of thousand of home be well protect as a result . we be not complacent , and be always look at way we can improve that . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the excellent work by the team at the Cabinet Office , who I know work extremely hard on these problem . as he will know , my constituency be home to some of our most precious chalk stream and winterbourne . I be sure that he be aware that water level in the Bourne Valley and in village to the west of Andover be perilously high . he will understand the ecological importance of those river , and the risk of the sewage system be overwhelmed and leak into the chalk stream . the Environment Agency and Southern Water be do great work . there be a huge pumping operation under way to avoid that calamity , but far significant rainfall might overwhelm the entire system . in his post - match analysis , once the weather calm down , will he consider give special priority to identify work that be require in area of particular ecological sensitivity ? significant work have be do up and down my constituency over the past 10 year by the flood resilience group , Southern Water , the EA , and indeed riparian owner , but more could still be do , and it need a certain amount of concentration . I thank my right hon . friend for his observation . as a former resident of 70 whitehall , he understand the problem in great depth , and the chalk stream of Hampshire have no fine defender than his right honourable self . he make a serious point about ecological sensitivity . it be right that we pay attention not only to the immediate threat to life or property but to our natural environment . as we know , if we do not do so , the damage can be irreparable and long lasting . barely a part of Oxford West and Abingdon be unaffected by the recent flood , but Abingdon remain unprotected . in 2007 , we be promise a plan , which be cut because of a lack of resource for the EA . it be not just the River Thames ; it be also the run - off from the new development , where huge number of house have be build . what be the Cabinet Office do to connect DEFRA with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities so that the developer , who have promise to clear the culvert , can be force by the local authority to do so ? as the hon . Lady will have hear I say early , the Cabinet Office have a co - ordinating role that bring together lead Government Departments and local responder . it would be under that guise that different Government Departments would meet to discuss issue of the sort that she describe . even by the standard of what we be accustom to in the northern isle , the last week have be exceptionally disruptive . I associate myself with the previous expression of gratitude to the road staff , electricity engineer and other who have go about their job , and to those who be respond even though it be not part of their job . the response of farmer , who just get on with clear the snow with a bucket on the front of their tractor , have be phenomenal . be this not a moment to pause and reflect that some of the change propose in other part of Government could weaken our resilience ? the switch - off of the copper wire network for telephone and the propose increase in the response time of the search and rescue helicopter provide by the coastguard from 15 minute to 60 minute will leave we in a bad position if they be allow to happen . can the Cabinet Office do something to ensure that they be not ? I have land at Tingwall airport in a storm in the summer , and that be frightening enough . you would not have do that last week ! no . one can only imagine what it have feel like in the Shetlands over the past week or so . my sympathy be with the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . to his point about general resilience , the Government be try to take a whole - system approach to understand exactly how we can work with emergency responder and those who be responsible for our national infrastructure . we be make progress , but there be always area in which we can do more work . as both the Minister and the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) , point out , this be the late in a series of storm that we have face . in October , St Andrews harbour be significantly damage as a result of the sea surge follow Storm Babet . the harbour be run by a trust that date from when James VI of Scotland grant the land to the people of the town , but as a result of the community ownership fund that the Government have run , and other fund generally , more and more of our asset be own and run by local community , which when face with this kind of disaster have no source of funding to access support . do the Government agree that they should be look at ensure that funding be in place , because St Andrews be a work harbour that be face £ 3 million in cost . without the repair be make , there be a risk of other part of the town be affect in the future . I be pleased to have learn something about St Andrews harbour . I be sure that colleague in other Government Departments , include DLUHC , be consider those issue . community - own asset can be a wonderful thing . it be important that asset such as local port be govern by people who really understand the town and city in which they be base . I be happy to take that forward . I thank the Minister for his positive answer to the question . farmer in my constituency tell I they can not recall flood and rain quite like this ; indeed , they tell I the volume of rain have be of biblical proportion . I hail from the coastal constituency of Strangford , where storm hit with a fury that be possibly not fully grasp . the coastline defence around Strangford loch and within my constituency have be subject to a level of onslaught never before see . can the Minister confirm what discussion he have have with the Department in Stormont , to which Westminster give substantial financial help to address coastal erosion ? perhaps the same level of assistance can be offer again . I will ask Ministers from other Departments to come back to the hon . gentleman on the specific , but he will know that we be very keen to see a restoration of Stormont , and I believe that the House will hear more about that very soon . somerset be so often batter by extreme flooding and , in response , the River Cam flood warning system be be pilot in my constituency . a stretch near North Cadbury will be fit out tomorrow with laser depth - measure device , which will send real - time message and alert to resident when the water level start to rise . will the Minister join I in congratulate Liberal Democrat councillor and Somerset Rivers Authority for that initiative and agree that we need to fund more extreme weather resilience plan for isolated rural community ? I be delighted to hear about the initiative in Cadbury — I have fond memory as a schoolboy of walk around the hillfort there — and be well aware of the historical threat that Somerset have face with flooding . I be glad that in recent incidence local government and central Government have be able to work together for the benefit of the people who live in that area . point of order on a point of order , Sir Roger . an organisation in my constituency where I have ground to intervene on behalf of a previous pub tenant have issue its current tenant with a gagging order and verbally tell they not to contact their MP . what can be do to protect my constituent from such bullying and to ensure that their constitutional right be respect ? first , I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give notice of his point of order . the ability of constituent to communicate with their member of Parliament be constitutionally important . I be very concerned about the matter he have raise . constituent must be able to communicate freely with their member of Parliament , and I trust and hope that urgent action will be take to clarify that that be understand by all party in this case . if the matter be not resolve satisfactorily , I trust that the right hon . Gentleman will seek advice from the Clerk of the Journals in the first instance about how this very important issue might be escalate . Bills present Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation ) Bill Secretary Chris Heaton - Harris , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Oliver Dowden , Secretary Michael Gove , Secretary Alister Jack , Secretary David T C davy and Mr Steve Baker , present a Bill to make provision to extend the period follow the Northern Ireland Assembly election of 5 May 2022 during which Ministers may be appoint . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time today , and to be print ( Bill 150 ) , with explanatory note ( Bill 150 — EN ) . I advise the House that this be a very narrow Bill . if the House agree the business of the House motion today , amendment may be table before the Bill have be read a second time . I understand that the Chairman of Ways and Means have indicate that she will make her provisional selection of amendment soon after 2 pm . member who be consider table amendment be ask to contact the Public Bill Office as soon as possible . whistleblowe Bill Mary Robinson present a Bill to establish an independent Office of the Whistleblower to protect whistleblower and whistleblowing in accordance with the public interest ; to make provision for the Office of the Whistleblower to set , monitor and enforce standard for the management of whistleblowe case , to provide disclosure and advice service , to direct whistleblowing investigation and to order redress of detriment suffer by whistleblower ; to create offence relate to the treatment of whistleblower and the handling of whistleblowing case ; to repeal the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February , and to be print ( Bill 151 ) . Road Traffic and Street Works Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about speed offence on road to which a 20 mph limit apply ; to make provision about the enforcement of move traffic offence ; to require 24 hour staffing of work on specify public road ; and for connected purpose . as I be sure you be aware , Mr Deputy Speaker , life as a motorist have change significantly over the past two decade . car have become safe , more efficient , greener and quieter , and yet despite the fact that the motor car be possibly one of the great contributor to human wealth , happiness and freedom , it have become see by many as the root of all evil . despite the enormous benefit that car bring to our constituent ' family up and down the land and , indeed , to people across the world , for many motorist , the world seem to be fill with councillor and official who be dedicate to make their life more difficult . drive be become a minefield of potential trap and penalty , such that driver be become paranoid and resentful about the entire system . when that happen , order tend to break down , and the time have come for a rebalancing . in the Bill , I propose three modest measure that would achieve a well balance and would hopefully see well result generally for motorist and member of our community across the board . first , I propose that anybody catch speed between 20 mph and 30 mph do not receive penalty point , rather they would be require to attend a speed awareness course . repeat offence would require repeat attendance at speed awareness course . I should declare an interest , have be at a speed awareness course recently after I be catch unwittingly do 24 mph on the Embankment , along with the Archbishop of Canterbury — not at the same time or in the same vehicle , but he be also do for a similar offence . the roll - out of 20 mph speed limit across the country have bring benefit in term of road safety , but it have leave many thousand of driver disproportionately punish for stray over the limit . the fact that driver can receive three penalty point for do 24 mph in a 20 mph zone and for do 57 mph in a 50 mph zone seem unfair to many and be in danger of discredit the system . in addition to penalty point and a fine , driver so punish would also face high insurance premium at a time when premium be rise significantly in any event . as it stand , it be possible for someone to lose their drive licence by drive at 24 mph four time in three year . two year ago , it be reveal that as 20 mph zone be roll out across London , Transport for London be set a target of a million speed fine a year with the Met police . that represent a huge increase in prosecution and the accumulation of point . analysis of Department for Transport datum by Claims . co . uk confirm that of those speed in a 20 mph zone , 49 % be exceed the limit by 5 mph or more , and only 19 % be drive above 30 mph . those number , of course , imply that 51 % of those catch speeding be do less than 25 mph . in evaluation , speed awareness course have prove to be significantly more effective in prevent reoffende than penalty point and a fine . if our objective be to improve road safety , particularly on residential road , it would be more effective to put people through repeat course , perhaps with increase intensity and time require . that would be a more proportionate approach and would achieve well road safety . point would of course still apply for those who fail to attend course or , indeed , who fail their course , which I understand be a possibility . the second element of the Bill be for non - speed traffic offence enforce by a local council or body other than the police . a first offence in those circumstance at a particular location should result in a warning letter , rather than a fine . a subsequent offence at the same location would attract a fine in the normal manner . over the past few year , we have see a significant increase in the number of traffic enforcement camera operate by local authority . in London alone , nearly 3 . 2 million ticket be issue in 2022 - 23 , extract about £ 200 million from motorist . the number of council approve by the Government to operate enforcement in that way have increase steadily . there be regular report in the medium of the earning of particular camera . the most successful camera in Birmingham apparently pull in £ 10 , 000 a day from driver who stray into bus lane . a number of council that have introduce enforcement camera have start with a grace period , during which err driver have be issue with a warning letter for their first offence at a particular location , recognise that a sudden change may not be immediately appreciate by many . in Liverpool , the city of my birth , when camera be bring in at one particular location , 1 , 400 driver be catch out within the first 24 hour . happily , they all receive a warning letter first . that be a good and civilised principle , and it maintain public support for the enforcement system . it recognise that the vast majority of driver will have make a genuine error , will learn their lesson and will not make the same mistake again . this very british sense of give people the benefit of the doubt should continue , and this Bill would make it a permanent feature . anyone who commit a move traffic offence — catch in the yellow box , stray into a bus lane or turn leave when they should not — enforce by a local authority with a camera for the first time at a particular location would only receive a warning letter . subsequent offence at the same location would attract a fine in the normal manner . finally , the third element of my Bill say that any roadwork on an a road should not be leave unattended at any time . we know , as member of Parliament travel around our constituency and to and from London , that the Government have struggle to control and minimise disruptive roadwork . anyone who drive in any major city will say that unannounced roadwork with poor traffic management and inconsiderate positioning be a source of huge delay and aggravation — even more so when those work be seemingly abandon and lifeless , sometimes for day . even in the past few day Hyde Park Corner , one of the busy junction in the capital , have be beset with work and temporary traffic light , with not a soul in sight after 5 pm . there be a polite Government consultation out at the moment on increase fine and tinker a bit with the current system . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) introduce his ten - minute rule Bill , the Roadworks ( Regulation ) Bill , last year with an imaginative and more radical set of measure to address the same problem , and his " can the Cones " campaign hit the mark with many . my proposal be simple . it would require contractor to ensure that no roadwork on any a road can ever be leave unattended . someone must always be on hand to deal with problem , speak to the public , alert authority to traffic issue and generally manage the site . that obligation would also provide a powerful incentive for the work to be complete quickly and the duty could be satisfied by have at least one person always work on the site — a very efficient use of resource and one that would show the public that contractor be be as diligent as possible and work be be complete as swiftly as possible . above all , motorist would know that their safe and smooth passage through the work be be supervise at all time . these three simple measure would improve all our life , with great road safety , a great sense of proportion and civilisation in the enforcement of non - speed traffic offence and less aggravation for motorist go through abandon work . question put and agree to . order , that Kit Malthouse , Royston Smith , Will Quince , Nickie Aiken , Sir Desmond Swayne , Philip Davies , Mark Menzies , Shailesh Vara , Julie Marson and Steve Tuckwell present the Bill . Kit Malthouse accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April , and to be print ( Bill 152 ) . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) kindly mention in his speech that I bring in a similar Bill , or at least a Bill on the same subject , last year . I commend he on what he have do and put on the record that the road Minister be here to listen . if my right hon . friend or I put in for an Adjournment debate to give the road Minister an opportunity to reply on the subject , perhaps the Chair might be prepare in due course to look favourably on such a request ? the right hon . Gentleman have be here long enough to know how to apply for an Adjournment debate . however , it be just possible he might find favour with Mr Speaker , as he would probably find favour with I on this subject . other than that , I do not think it be a matter for the Chair . Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation ) Bill ( Business of the House ) Ordered , that the follow provision shall apply to the proceeding on the Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation ) Bill — Timetable ( 1 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take at today ' s sit in accordance with this order . ( b ) notice of Amendments , new Clauses or new schedule to be move in Committee of the whole House may be accept by the Clerks at the table before the Bill have be read a second time . ( c ) proceeding on second read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( d ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 2 ) as soon as the proceeding on the Motion for this order have be conclude , the order for the second reading of the Bill shall be read . ( 3 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , despite Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) the Speaker shall leave the chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 4 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 5 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( d ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 16 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 6 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 5 ) ( c ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 8 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 5 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision , except that the question shall be put separately on any Clause of or schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown have signify an intention to leave out . consideration of Lords Amendments ( 9 ) ( a ) any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 10 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 9 ) of this order . subsequent stage ( 11 ) ( a ) any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 11 ) of this order . Reasons Committee ( 13 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order . miscellaneous ( 14 ) Standing Order No . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on the Bill . ( 15 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 16 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 17 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 18 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding in respect of such a debate . ( 19 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . — ( Chris Heaton - Harris ) Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation ) Bill Second Reading Amendments , new clause and new schedule for Committee of the whole House may now be table by member at the Opposition side of the table of the House . I understand that the Chairman of Ways and Means have indicate that she will make her provisional selection of all those amendment table soon after 2 pm . if any amendment be table and then select by the Chairman of Ways and Means , an amendment paper for the Committee of the Whole House will be circulate as soon as possible . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this be a very short and , I would like to think , perfectly form Bill . I thank all those who have help to expedite this simple but important piece of legislation to this point . as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my focus have always be on facilitate the return of devolved institution and uphold the Belfast / Good Friday agreement in all its strand . this Bill be no different , and hopefully play a part in that . the UK Government believe in the agreement . we believe in devolution . we believe in localism . we strongly believe in power sharing . that be why I be today legislate to extend retrospectively the Executive formation period to 8 February 2024 . the people of Northern Ireland deserve locally elect decision maker and want they to address the issue that matter to they . this very short extension provide for by the legislation will create the legal mean to allow the Assembly to sit and get the Executive up and run as soon as possible . importantly , a restore Executive will have access to the significant financial package that I announce before Christmas , worth more than £ 3 . 3 billion , to secure and transform Northern Ireland ' s public service . minister will be empower to immediately begin work to address the need of local people and unleash Northern Ireland ' s full and amazing potential . this Bill to help to deliver that outcome and support the return of devolved governance to the citizen of Northern Ireland . on that note , I conclude my remark for now and commend the Bill to the House . another year , and another Bill to postpone the Northern Ireland Assembly election . it be worth note that the last time we do this , something quite significant happen five day later , when the Windsor Framework negotiation be conclude , so let we live in a state of hope — temper , as always , by experience . I thank the Secretary of State for introduce the Bill in such a timely fashion . we support it and I have meet no one who think that hold election now would help to resolve the difficulty that Northern Ireland ' s politic be currently in . however , while we may be in agreement about the need for this Bill , I do not think we should let this moment pass without acknowledge that the Assembly elect 20 month ago have still not yet be able to meet . in any other democracy anywhere in the world , that would be a cause of anger , not to say uproar . the very essence of a democratic election be that the representative body should be able to meet and do its job . I would just observe that Northern Ireland surely can not continue to be the only place where that do not happen . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for the discussion that we have have . it be a pleasure to do business with he . as my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , say just under a year ago : " it would , of course , be well if this legislation be not need . Northern Ireland be a value part of the United Kingdom , and restore the Stormont Assembly and Executive should be a priority for the Government . " — [ Official Report , 22 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 238 . ] I know that be a priority for the Secretary of State , because he have spend so much time negotiate with the Democratic Unionist party to try to find a way forward , and from the moment I take on this role I have try to support he and the Government in that objective . with the negotiation , it appear , have effectively conclude , we have now come to the moment of decision . I hope the DUP will return to government . I think the DUP should return to government . I say that for a host of reason , but above all because the people of Northern Ireland need to have their government back . the consequence of have no government for almost two year this time around — and , of course , for almost three year when Sinn F é in walk out of the institution — be very serious for the people of Northern Ireland . as we know , the Assembly can not even elect a Speaker so it can not meet , difficult decision be not be take , the public finance be in a parlous state , and when the flood strike last year and affect so many business and home , there be no Government in Stormont for people to turn to for help — none . when I be at home over Christmas , I take my uncle to the specialist cancer centre at Belfast City Hospital . it be a humbling experience to see the care and dedication provide by the staff in that world - lead facility , but the stress and strain of a lack of funding and direction be clear . when institution and system fail , people suffer . this have to be the last time that legislation like this come before the House . let we get the institution back up and run , or the Secretary of State , with the Irish Government , should find something else to sort it out . I agree with my hon . friend that this be the moment to get the institution back up and run . I wish the person he refer to all the good in their treatment . the civil servant be leave to make decision that ought to be make by elect representative . in the case of public sector pay , for example , some worker have not have a pay rise for almost three year — that should hardly bear repetition — and no decision have be take because there be not enough money in the budget to do so . that be why there be such a large strike last week , and I see that further industrial action be likely come towards we . everyone , include the Government , now recognise that that be not a sustainable position . the proof on the Government ' s side be that , in announce the financial package , they identify money for public sector pay , but it will not be release until such time as the Executive be restore . if I may be frank , I understand why the Secretary of State take that decision initially , but in relation to public sector pay , that moment have now pass . that be why I call on he last week to release that part of the budget package so that the dispute can be settle , worker can get their pay increase and public service can try to address the many challenge that they face . the right hon . Gentleman be make an important point . many public sector pay award have be make — nearly 50 over the past year . the only reason the current one be not be make be that the Secretary of State be hold teacher , nurse and so on as pawn in the game that he be play in his effort to force we to make a decision that he want we to make , but that we do not wish to make . the right hon . Gentleman link the pay question to his stance on the DUP ' s difference of view on the Windsor framework and the protocol . I say to he in return that it be equally true that if the DUP be to go back into government , public sector worker would get their pay increase . that be why I say a moment ago that I hope very much that that will be the case . back home in the paper , with tv correspondent and in medium statement , those in the union say clearly that the problem do not lie with the politician but — with respect — it lie with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , who have control of the money . he , in his own right , could settle the claim for those in education , healthcare and elsewhere . the money be there . the union say , " let the Secretary of State do it . " have the shadow Secretary of State hear the same story that I have hear in the news and medium ? I have indeed hear the union make precisely that point . I have set out to the House that I understand why the Secretary of State take that approach initially , but I do not think that public sector worker should continue to be hold hostage to the failure thus far . I hope that it will change soon in order to solve this problem , which be why I be call on the Secretary of State to release the fund now . we need to be honest about how we get to the deadlock that the Government , and indeed the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , as the leader of his party , have be grapple with . one of the many consequence of leave the EU be that a decision have to be take about what to do about trade across the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic . everyone agree that the border have to remain open — there be not many thing on which everyone agree when it come to Brexit , but that be one of they — and everyone agree that the EU need to be sure that good cross that border comply with the rule of the single market . there be no escape that . the Government decide that the answer would be the Northern Ireland protocol . before I occupy this role , I be one of many people who argue that the implementation of the protocol would not work in Northern Ireland as originally intend , include for reason that many in the Unionist community have point out . in fairness to Maro š Š ef č ovi č , he understand what the problem be and change the EU ' s approach . that be why I genuinely believe that the Windsor framework represent a significant step forward , and why Labour vote for it . of course , detailed implementation will need to be work through — that be another reason the Executive need to return — but most business tell I that the green lane be work reasonably well . as I say last week — I make no apology for reinforce this point today — the framework be here to stay and will continue to be implement by whoever be in government in Westminster . with respect , anyone who think otherwise have simply get it wrong , not least because any hope of negotiate future arrangement of benefit to Northern Ireland with the EU will depend on the Windsor framework be implement . if the UK be to renege yet again on an international agreement that it have sign , which have happen before , no sanitary and phytosanitary agreement or anything else would be reach , because trust would once again have be destroy — absolutely destroy . at the same time , of course , unlike the rest of the UK , Northern Ireland continue to enjoy ready access to both the UK and EU market , which be a huge opportunity for job and economic growth in the year ahead . those be fact that nothing will change . what the Government have be do , as we all understand , be negotiate on measure that they could take to reinforce Northern Ireland ' s position in the UK internal market . the right hon . member for Lagan Valley have wisely and repeatedly say — and I support he in this — that any agreement have to be acceptable both to Unionists and to nationalists . that have show great wisdom . in addition , there be now a financial offer on the table that I think provide a basis on which to go forward . after month of negotiation between the Government and the DUP , now be the moment to decide whether to restore the institution . on the detail of the Bill , of which there be not much , I have one question . in his press statement on 19 January , the Secretary of State say : " I intend to introduce new legislation which will take a pragmatic , appropriate and limited approach to address the executive formation period and support Northern Ireland department to manage the immediate and evident challenge they face in stabilise public service and finance . " I take it from those word that actually he be refer to another Bill that he think might be need if the current negotiation fail . can he confirm that that be the case ? I be not ask for any further detail , but we all hope that the institution return and that such a Bill will not prove necessary . will he assure the House that , as and when there be an outcome either way , he will immediately make a statement to the House ? the right hon . Gentleman ask in his question to the Secretary of State about plan Bs and alternative , but do he agree that any alternative to restoration of the institution be suboptimal and not the settle position of this House ? all party have as their primary policy on Northern Ireland governance the restoration of the institution . I agree 100 % with the right hon . gentleman . he anticipate a point that I be just about to make in my concluding remark . Northern Ireland have come a long way since the Belfast / Good Friday agreement in 1998 . it be unrecognisable in so many way , and for the well . in all of my meeting and visit , I have be so impressed and encourage by the energy , enterprise and industry of those I have meet , who be work hard to build a new and well future for the people of Northern Ireland . that really matter when we know , for example , that family in Northern Ireland have the low disposable income in the United Kingdom . the long there be no functional devolve Government , the hard it will be for those business to seize the opportunity that be available anyway , include because of access to the EU market . business that be think of investing do not like uncertainty . they want stability — they want to know that a Government be in place — so the absence of a Government undermine the bright future that otherwise face the people of Northern Ireland . the basis of power sharing , which be at the heart of the Good Friday agreement — include devolve government — be essential to the making of progress . of course , there have be bump and difficulty along the way and period of no Government , but a generation on from 1998 , I simply want to echo the point make by the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) : we can not give up on devolved government . it be what we in this House believe in , and it be the responsibility that we all take on when we stand for elect office . we can not have a system where any of we choose to put down condition and do not take part if those condition be not meet . that be not how a democracy work . as I be fond of say , we have to deal with the world as it be , as we seek to change it into the world we wish it to be . it can not be , surely , that politician from all party and community in Northern Ireland be somehow unable to come together to establish the Assembly , form an executive and get on with the task of governing . I be very much enjoy the tone and the thrust of the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech . of course , he be dance between a majoritarian and a power - share arrangement in his comment , which be perhaps not quite as align as he might suggest . this be not the first time that Stormont have be suspend . in the past , Sinn F é in refuse to come back to the Assembly . as I understand it , that be due to concern over the language , and the UK Government have take step in that regard in recent year . as such , would the right hon . Gentleman support the UK Government take measure to address the current impasse over the Northern Ireland protocol , as modify by the Windsor framework ? could he support alteration that might be helpful in restore power sharing and alleviate the concern of the unionist party in Northern Ireland ? I be grateful for that intervention . I believe strongly in Northern Ireland ' s place as part of the internal market of the United Kingdom . since I take up this position , I have repeatedly make it clear that I will support any measure that reinforce that place and make it clear , but that be also consistent with the international commitment that the Government have sign up to . can I just pick the hon . gentleman up on what he say initially ? I be not argue at all for a majoritarian position . I believe in power sharing — I be as wed as the Secretary of State to the letter and spirit of the Good Friday agreement . I be make a point about the responsibility of politician to participate in that power - share arrangement , and I would make those remark equally to those who have collapse the institution previously and the current cause of the collapse , because in the end it be not in the interest of Northern Ireland to not have a function government . I would like to clarify that . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way , and then I will finish . the right hon . Gentleman be raise a very important point . the whole point of the agreement and of power sharing be that it be base on consent , so how can the Unionist community consent to lawmaking by the EU in which that community do not participate and have no influence ? the right hon . Gentleman ask a very pertinent question , but that be a consequence of a course of action that I personally do not think be a terribly good idea and he think be a good idea . the moment we leave the European Union , everybody know that there would be a problem that have to be address . to keep that open border , there be only two practical proposition . the first be propose by the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , the former Prime Minister : she come up with a scheme to try to keep the whole of the UK within the arrangement of the single market , have announce that we be leave the single market . that do not work out , so the second option be to do the same in respect of Northern Ireland . that be where we be , and the Government eventually negotiate the Windsor framework , which be an important step forward . these thing be go to have to be work through . really , what we be talk about be the operation of the green lane . everybody agree with the red lane : if good be come into Northern Ireland to then head off to the Republic , of course they should be check , and that be what the red lane be for . we be debate the operation of the green lane . the question be whether it make sense for there to be no power - share Government institution — no Assembly and no Executive — in Northern Ireland because of a debate and an argument about the operation of the green lane . my very strong view be that that be not sufficient reason not to have a function government . I will conclude just by say that the people of Northern Ireland have be wait long enough , and now be the time for everyone to get back to work . I want to make a few remark in support of my right hon . friend the Minister who introduce this Bill . I think it be absolutely the right thing to be do , and I pay tribute to the patient work over the past few month that he and the official have do — those here in the Northern Ireland Office , in the Northern Ireland civil service and in the different political party at Stormont . there be a huge need for the institution of Stormont to be restore . whether it be regard public sector pay , which have already be mention , health waiting list , creak public service , charity and other rely on the public purse , or the limited offer of childcare in Northern Ireland , that institution need to be back up and run . divergence on medicine and other issue be also happen as a result of Stormont not sit . the deal that the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister put forward before Christmas be really good : it provide over £ 3 billion and will unlock many of the challenge currently face Northern Ireland . the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) and his team seem to have negotiate a very good deal with the Government on issue around the Windsor framework . I hope that we will be able to see the result of that work in the come day and week . I be sure some in his party will still have concern . the deal will not be perfect , but it will be much well now that so much work have be do over the past few month to enable the DUP to go back into the executive and make further argument . for Unionism generally , be in the devolved Assembly be the key route to make the case for the Union — for the NHS , for the fact that be in the UK defence and security system be well for Northern Ireland , and for make sure that any remain concern on the post - Brexit arrangement be deal with . the Secretary of State have give an end date of 8 February for this Bill . my understanding be that the Government be support the final stage of the DUP negotiation . there be no bullying or any hard demand ; there be just support for the work that the right hon . member for Lagan Valley be do with his party and the discussion he be have . there be a real hope that , in make the decision to get the institution back up and run and to go back into Stormont , if the DUP do so , the future for Northern Ireland , and for young people and generation to come , will be well serve , with local Ministers make decision in the good interest of this key part of our country . I will begin , as be sadly become customary , by say how much it be a matter of regret that we be back here discuss a postponement to election . I be very firmly of the view that Northern Ireland be govern well when it be govern locally , and that for the sake of all the people of Northern Ireland we wish to see the Assembly return in early course . have say all that , however , we see no utility in or prospect of progress be make by hold an election at this point . there be opportunity last year to reflect on the 25 year of devolution in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . I remember with great pleasure the special meeting of the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly in Belfast . there be meeting across Stormont itself , and also at Belfast castle , at which those charge with the care of affair and relationship between our island and jurisdiction have the opportunity to benefit from the breadth of experience of those who be involve in the peace process , the Good Friday agreement and establish devolution . as a temporary custodian of that role , I certainly find it incredibly valuable to have that transfusion of knowledge and experience . it be also a tremendous opportunity to reflect on how far all part of the UK that have experience devolution over that quarter of a century , particularly Northern Ireland , have advance and progress . it also bring into sharp focus how much be miss by Stormont sit empty at present . I very much share the sentiment of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) when he speak about hope be temper by expectation . I always very much enjoy the opportunity to visit Northern Ireland , whether in a private capacity or in my role as the SNP spokesperson and , when I can , to engage with business , community group and representative of wide civic society . I have have much cause to be grateful to elect member across various party in Northern Ireland for the opportunity they have give I to do that , for the door they have open and for the insight I have gain . what I have observe from many of those visit be the sense of frustration at how politics be presently fail in Northern Ireland . I say politic rather than politician deliberately , because it be a failure of politic across many strand that have bring we to this point . we see that bubble up most obviously with the recent strike . in the debate we have in this place on the Northern Ireland budget , I highlight the problem cause , and the potential solution defer , by civil servant have to cheesepare budget within the confine of the ghost of ministerial decision past . I remember from my time in local government the frustration of council officer if we be unable to provide any clear political direction about what we want to happen . while it be always possible under different circumstance to set balanced budget , how much well it be to be able to set they in the context of clear political leadership on the choice we wish to make within the resource at our disposal . that be certainly a consideration , because it be impossible to set the strategic budget direction that be need in Northern Ireland right now in the absence of a work institution at Stormont . when it come to public sector pay , the Secretary of State say that use part of the £ 3 . 3 billion cash allocation to settle claim ahead of Stormont be reconstitute be a political decision , and therefore not one that he be willing to make . I would just say as gently as I can that decide not to act be take a political decision in its own way : the decision not to act be also political . I would join the voice in previous debate — I be sure we will hear they later — urge the Secretary of State to reconsider his stance on that . public sector worker in Northern Ireland , on whom the brunt of the pressure cause be fall , really do deserve the pay settlement that their counterpart elsewhere in these island have be able to get . I mention in pass that it be say that the absence of a function Stormont be the reason why the UK Government be unwilling to make progress on provide funding for level up . I have a wry chuckle about that give the UK Government ' s disinclination to work with the devolved government in Scotland and Wales . there seem to be a certain amount of cherry - picking in the excuse offer . punish the people of Northern Ireland to try to bring to bear some additional political leverage on politician have not be a conspicuous success so far . neither do I believe it be an appropriate lever to use where public sector pay be concerned . as I say , this have be a failure of politic . the fundamental problem that have lead we to where we be stem from Brexit and the manner in which successive government choose to take that forward — against the express wish , lest we forget , of clear majority both in Scotland and in Northern Ireland . again , I allow myself a wry smile , because during debate about the scottish independence referendum in 2014 we be tell that we would apparently be create a trade border with the rest of the UK . yet only two year later we see the UK Government themselves go hell for leather towards create a trade border between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I remember very much enjoy cause consternation on the Government Benches by point out in a Backbench Business debate about the Northern Ireland protocol , perhaps a little indelicately , that if Scotland be once again independent and in the European Union , we would be able to enjoy free trade with Northern Ireland . neither can currently enjoy that as part of the Union , base on the deal that have be put in place . in closing , I be very clear what my preference be for the constitutional future of these island , but short of that , bring the UK back into the single market and the custom union would make this problem go away . accept that that be not politically realistic , give the stance of the current Government and the aspire government , close alignment , on sanitary and phytosanitary matter especially , would be of enormous benefit , not just to people in Northern Ireland but right across these island , particularly my constituent — speak selfishly — and for those involve in agriculture and the food trade . that close alignment would be much well , because the close we align , the less significant these issue become , and that would be manifestly in the interest of all of these island , whatever constitutional future we choose in future . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . I listen very carefully to his assertion about an independent Scotland be a member of the European Union . I be not sure that that assumption be actually the right one , bear in mind the view of some member state of that Union , notably Spain . that provide a reality check on some of the lofty rhetoric of the SNP about its position in Europe and the world , should it choose to separate from the rest of the United Kingdom . I make that point , because the consequence of Brexit inevitably mean that an arrangement for the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic would always be difficult . I certainly bear the scar on my back , have be involve as a Law Officer throughout that process . indeed , I help to put together the Malthouse compromise — anybody remember that ? — back in early 2018 . I know DUP Members will remember that time very well , when we try to work together to get somewhere that would satisfy everybody . as the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) say , we have to work in the world as it be , not as we would like it to be . the one way we can actually find out about the operation of the Windsor framework be for the Executive to be able to operate it and to see how the green lane work — and if there be operational problem , then let we deal with they . I be as anxious as anybody to make sure that business and individual , and everybody who want to trade in Northern Ireland or through Northern Ireland , be able to do so in as free and uninhibite a way as possible . I do not want to see Northern Ireland cast adrift from the rest of our United Kingdom in that way . the right hon . and learn Member make reference to Northern Ireland be set adrift from the rest of the United Kingdom . business in the United Kingdom be find it difficult — bureaucratically difficult — to trade with Northern Ireland . as a consequence , the divergence of trade be continue daily , and it be increase . everyone say , " oh , the Republic of Ireland be boom " , but that be simply because its supply chain have change . good be no long come through the UK , but straight from France . there be one point I want to find out about : what engagement have the British Government have with the EU on the change that need to be make to the Windsor framework and the protocol in order for they to work ? obviously , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will answer on any engagement that the UK Government have have with Brussels . he be right to cast it at that level , because it be a matter between that Government and the EU , bear in mind the Republic of Ireland ' s membership of the EU , and the fact that the EU have that competence to negotiate a treaty . however , it be barely a year since the Windsor framework be agree and in reality , come back to the world as it be , it would be wrong of we blithely to assume that somehow that can be reopen here and now . I be not say that it can never be reopen — of course everything can be reopen , and there will be an opportunity in a few year to look at the whole trade agreement that we reach with the EU in the 2025 - 26 review period . my point be that unless we see a function Executive with responsibility for the operational aspect of Windsor be able to identify and highlight the problem and to raise they with the UK Government , at an appropriate level , we will not move the process on in the way that I know right hon . and hon . member want to happen , as do I . as I have say many time , the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 , which we debate long and hard when I be Lord Chancellor , contain some measure that have be helpful and be now on the statute book . however , put aside the " notwithstanding " clause , more be intend to be do legislatively to help cement the place of Northern Ireland in our UK internal market . I think that we should legislate , and I know my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) very much agree with I on that point . we want to see that happen , but we be here in January 2024 . I note the shortness of the period that the Secretary of State seek to extend in the Bill , and I think that be sensible and right . tempt as it be to have long period — I will not call they blank cheque — I do not think that would be right . I wish the Secretary of State , and everybody in the negotiation , well in come to a sensible and pragmatic solution that allow the Government of Northern Ireland to continue . I will not repeat the point make by right hon . and hon . member . I see in the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , which I chair weekly , the inability of the institution of Northern Ireland to plan ahead in a multi - year way , and to provide the level of public service that I know they want but which they can not do , bear in mind the constraint under which we have to operate . unlike previous period of direct rule , this time there would need to be legislative change on the Floor of the House for that to happen . it have be make clear by the leadership of both main party that that be not the policy of the British Government . that be the world as it be , I be afraid , not the world as some would like it to be . I certainly do not want a situation where there be again an imbalance in our UK constitution that will only lead to more tension be stoke in the community of Northern Ireland , rather than less . it therefore seem to I that the most obvious way forward now have to be the restoration of the Executive . there have be much use of the phrase " the world as it be " in the debate , which I think be helpful because we must be pragmatic about this . be it the intention of my right hon . and learn Friend ' s Committee to look at Northern Ireland as it be now , include level of inward investment , for example , or how business have respond to the 12 month in which the Windsor framework have be in place ? we be in the process of prepare a report on the state of public service in Northern Ireland . we have take a wealth of evidence , and I be grateful to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) , who be active member of the Committee . they will have hear the same evidence we have hear . we be look into the energy market and the move to net zero in Northern Ireland . that be a very important issue , bear in mind hard - press bill payer , and the particular pressure that they be under give the way that energy be supply . we be also look at issue as varied as education right through to paramilitarism . on the Windsor framework , I sound a bit like Zhou Enlai , in that in some respect it be still " too early to say " precisely what its effect be . there be no doubt that , as the hon . member for South Antrim ( Paul Girvan ) say — I be sure he will intervene again — there be already evidence of excessive bureaucracy and problem that be real for business on the ground . because Northern Ireland sit under EU rule and law , the carbon tax offset for energy cost be twice what it be in the rest of the United Kingdom , simply because we be have to take on board european law as oppose to what be pass in this House . the hon . Gentleman be right to point out some of the fact about the situation we find ourselves in . I will not labour the point , but I be afraid that the consequence of Brexit be always go to be complex and difficult for Northern Ireland , bear in mind the particular importance of the border and the clash , if you like , between the irresistible force of the logic of a single market that wish to police its border rigidly , and the immovable object of the fact that the border have a particular status and sensitivity that mean that to make it excessively hard create other problem and issue that we be all familiar with . that , I be afraid , be the difficulty that we all have to wrestle with . I know that this place sometimes risk sound rather portentous and nannyish in the way it talk about Northern Ireland , and we have to be careful about that . but in resist that approach it be logically correct to say that the good way to cure this issue be for the institution of Stormont to function , and to function well . do my right hon . and learn Friend have a message to the Unionist community in Northern Ireland regard why they should put up with EU law that they do not influence , and why they should put up with border control when they be trade within our own country ? the message I would give be simply that we still need a function Executive to work out and bring to account , with proper scrutiny , issue with the framework , so that at a Stormont level it can be understand and debate in far more detail than with the time and capacity we have in this House . that work should be do thoroughly by the institution of Stormont , so that this place , and the Government in particular , be even well informed about what they need to do to correct some of the problem that have be throw up by the anomalous position that Northern Ireland find itself in . that be where we now stand . we have to get on with exercise those institution in order to solve some of the problem that right hon . and hon . member quite rightly raise . before I finish , I will simply say this : I commend the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) for his forbearance , his patience , and the way he be approach these issue . it be not an easy position for anybody to be in . all of we will have to make compromise in our political life — goodness know that be something I have have to wrestle with . on behalf of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , which I have the honour of chairing , I say simply that he go with all the good will and support that I can muster on behalf of the Committee . I hope that 2024 will be a moment not of more pause and political vacuum , but a moment when responsibility can be take up , the rein of government can be hold firmly by my friend in the DUP , and we see the progress for the people of Northern Ireland that I know everybody want . I thank the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) for his comment , and I wish he well in his ongoing and important work as Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I say to the hon . member for St Helens North ( Conor McGinn ) , who be no long in his place , that we recognise the pressure on our public service at this time , and we want to get to a place where we see our political institution restore on a sustainable basis . as the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , remind we , that must be on a basis that Unionists and nationalist can support , because that principle of cross - community consensus be at the heart of the Belfast and successor agreement . it be the key principle that enable those institution to operate in what remain a divide society in Northern Ireland . to be absolutely clear , the Democratic Unionist party support devolution . we support the concept of the people of Northern Ireland be able to elect their representative and to have good government deliver through the institution of the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Northern Ireland Executive . we be clear that our objective be twofold : to address the issue and problem create by the Northern Ireland protocol as part of the withdrawal agreement of 2019 - 20 ; and to provide the basis for the restoration of our political institution . we be approach the two - year mark since my party take the decision to withdraw the First Minister , which then precipitate a process that ultimately result in the institution not be able to function . that be not a decision we take lightly . for month in advance , I and my party make it clear that we want to see a negotiating process under way between the Government of the United Kingdom and the European Union to address the very real problem create by the protocol . sadly , those plea be ignore and there be no process . in fact , we be tell variously by Irish Government Ministers , EU representative and so on that the protocol would not be renegotiate . I stand today and recognise that , as a result of the action that my party take , the EU be bring back to the table , there be negotiation , change have be make and further change will come . I watch the political discourse back home in Northern Ireland and I listen to the commentary of some who share our concern about the protocol and its impact on Northern Ireland , but who be talk up that some deal have be do — clearly , they think they know the detail — and that it fall short of what they need or require . my party can stand on its record of the change we have deliver and will deliver . I say to those who point the finger at we , " what have you deliver ? what have the Traditional Unionist Voice party deliver by way of change to the protocol ? " absolutely nothing — not a single thing — yet TUV member put up poster in the dark of the night , before any deal have be do , talk about a sell - out . what have they sell ? what have they deliver for the people of Northern Ireland ? what have be their contribution to secure the change that we need to restore our place in the United Kingdom and its internal market ? we read lot of other pearl of wisdom on social medium about what be need and require . we hear all kind of speculation from commentator about what have be agree , despite the fact that they have not see the detail . there be undoubtedly an attempt to orchestrate opposition to a deal and agreement that be not yet conclude . the very fact that we be here today in the House of Commons extend legislation reflect the reality that no agreement have yet be reach . if it have , we would not be here . there be some , though , who be put it about for their own narrow purpose that certain thing have be agree , the deal be all there and they know what it be . they be entitle to their view — everyone be entitle to their perspective — but they should wait until an agreement be reach before they make their final verdict and assess the progress that have be make before they reach their conclusion . I suspect what be go on be not about that . the truth be that there be some — a tiny minority , but there be some — who do not want Stormont back or an Assembly in Northern Ireland . they would rather have imperfect direct rule than an imperfect Stormont . that be what they say , yet they be the same people who constantly berate the Government of the United Kingdom and this Parliament for sell they out . they constantly point the finger at the United Kingdom Government and say , " you have sell we short . you have betray we . you have let we down , " yet they want to hand all the power back to that Government . that be not the view of the vast majority of Unionists or people in Northern Ireland , and we understand that , which be why we be committed to get a solution , move thing forward , make progress and resolve the issue that have harm Northern Ireland — our economy , our business and , yes , our place in the United Kingdom . I be a proud Unionist . I be proud to be part of this United Kingdom . I be proud to have serve my country in this Parliament for almost 27 year . I be proud of the service that I have give , unlike some other , to my country , when I put on the uniform of the Ulster Defence Regiment to protect everyone in the community from terrorism and violence , yet today , because of the stirring up that be go on , I be threaten by those who never put on a uniform and who have not serve our country . I check out one of the people who threaten I on the register , and they do not vote at the last election . they can not even come out to vote for our future in the Union , never mind do anything about it , yet they be threaten I , and people like I who be work day and night to try to find solution and to move Northern Ireland forward on a basis that the vast majority of people can support . I say this to those who stir up and threaten : the provisional IRA attack I in the past , and it do not deflect I from the task that I and my colleague have to do our job and get the good we can for Northern Ireland , and I will not be deflect now . I will continue on the course . I will continue to engage with the Government until we get the progress need to enable we to take a decision about whether the deal be sufficient to restore the political institution . let we not forget that when we take the decision to come out of the institution , it be about the protocol and restore Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom and its internal market . it be about ensure that good flow freely from Great Britain to Northern Ireland when they be stay within the United Kingdom . it be about ensure that our place in the economic and political Union be respect and protect in law . that be important , and that be what we be strive to achieve , to ensure that Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom be value , respect and protect , and that our right to trade within our own country be respect and protect . that be what we be aim to achieve , but I make no apology for we also aim to strengthen our tie across this United Kingdom . devolution in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland have alter the way in which we govern in this nation . brexit — our decision to leave the European Union — have alter thing , which be why , as part of what we be propose , we want to see a more join - up , cohesive approach across the Union , work together on economic issue , trade issue , education and health . we be work to make progress on that . I want to talk about something else , which I find quite insulting : when the Secretary of State convene talk at Hillsborough to discuss the funding of our public service in Northern Ireland . I do not ask he to do that . I be very clear that for I this be not about the money ; this be about Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom . when we have make the progress that I hope we will make , we will sit down with the Government and finalise arrangement in relation to the future sustainability of our political institution and the funding of our public service . I want to echo comment make by other colleague in the House . our public service be only as effective as the people who work in they . during the covid pandemic , we see our healthcare worker — our doctor , our nurse , our ancillary staff and our care worker — on the frontline work hard , take risk and put themselves on the line . in education , our teacher be invest in the future of our young people , and many other work across our public service in Northern Ireland . they deserve their pay rise . they have earn their pay rise . it be essential to the delivery of our public service that they get their pay rise . in advance of reach an agreement on the outstanding issue — whenever that might be ; I believe we be move towards finalise they — I hope that the Secretary of State will transfer the funding for 2023 - 24 that the Treasury have commit to and enable our public sector worker to have the pay rise that they deserve . I urge the Government to do that ; we do not want to see politic play with they . I note that the Irish Congress of Trade Unions Northern Ireland have today come out with yet another statement call on the Secretary of State to act . I echo those comment . those people deserve the pay rise . I hope the Secretary of State will reflect on that . in conclusion , some have say that they hope this be the last time we have this type of legislation , but that require we to reach agreement . it require we to resolve and finalise the outstanding issue so that we can move forward . we can assess the progress that have be make and we can take decision around the restoration of our political institution if that be the way we be to go . but I be clear , and my colleague be clear , that this be not about any price . we have fight hard and will continue to fight hard to get the outcome we need for everyone in Northern Ireland , to restore the cross - community consensus that be essential for the proper functioning of our devolved institution in Northern Ireland . we will work at that . I simply say to my fellow Unionists in Northern Ireland , whatever their political persuasion or background , that the notion that a Unionism that turn in on itself be a Unionism that can deliver for Northern Ireland , to make Northern Ireland work and to secure the Union for the future , be not the way to go . we will provide the leadership that be require — because that be what be necessary to make Northern Ireland work — to ensure that our place in the Union be value , respect and protect in law and in practice , to remove the barrier to trade so that we can trade in both direction with the rest of the United Kingdom , and to ensure that our Union be strong and that Northern Ireland ' s place within it be both respect and protect . that be what we be aim to achieve . we will assess the outcome against our seven test , which we have set out clearly , determine the progress make and make our decision base on these matter . we will do so rationally and clearly , recognise that we be the custodian of Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom . on our shoulder rest a huge responsibility . we will not shirk that responsibility , and we will not be find want in continue to defend Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . this will probably not do the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) many favour , but I congratulate he on the tone of his speech . I find it to be encouraging in that respect . obviously , Northern Ireland be currently in an incredibly difficult place . in term of the overall situation we find ourselves in , it be fair to say that there be disappointment , anger , frustration and indeed bewilderment that we do not have function institution . that view be share by the vast majority people in Northern Ireland and , indeed , by business and civic society organisation . when the January 2024 date be set in the previous Bill , it be so far off into the future that it seem inconceivable that the institution would not have be restore by that point , but here we be . it be in a sense bizarre to see a piece of primary legislation go through this Parliament essentially to extend and facilitate a negotiation by two week . decision could have be take at any stage in the previous year — indeed , in the previous week and day — to avoid this situation . on the surface , this be a simple Bill , but beneath it lie a much big story . this may well be a pragmatic extension in the hope and expectation of a breakthrough , and I sincerely hope that that happen , but the people of Northern Ireland have be patient — overly patient in many respect — about bring matter to a conclusion . there will always be a degree of scepticism until we see a positive outcome . for other , however , the Bill amount to kick the can down the road for another couple of week and potentially defer the much big decision that will have to be take in the event that we do not see the speedy resumption of devolution . one aspect of the situation we find ourselves in be the story of Brexit , which be allude to by both the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) and the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . it be about how the DUP back a hard Brexit and do not reconcile that with the implication for Northern Ireland in term of the special arrangement that have to be put in place . there be no perfect solution to the challenge that Brexit pose to Northern Ireland . the Windsor framework offer perhaps the good approach to put a square peg into a round hole , short of a wide reassessment of the UK ' s overall relationship with the European Union , but I must stress that whatever residual issue exist with the Windsor framework — I fully accept that business have frustration with certain aspect of what they see ; the same apply for consumer in some respect — they all pale into insignificance compare with the absence of function institution and the ability to take decision on health , education , our economy and protect our environment . as the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , say , we be also see real consequence in the wide trust and confidence in politic itself in Northern Ireland . politic be not work , and that be a dangerous place to find ourselves in . it be not simply that issue be be park for the eventual resumption of the Assembly to pick up where we leave off . every day the impasse go on , more and more damage be be do to Northern Ireland ' s public service and we be lose economic opportunity . I do not want to get into too much politic today — there have be a lot of that — but nevertheless I have a responsibility to say that there be other option we can consider . the DUP have be allow to essentially hold the process to ransom with impunity over the past 12 month , in term of block the Executive . I understand the point about cross - community confidence in any Executive , but block the functioning of the Executive go against 75 % of the people of Northern Ireland . there be a world of difference between check and balance on individual decision make with the institution , and a party pull they down and stop they from function and have no government at all . the fact that we have to legislate for direct rule — if that be where we end up ; I stress again that I hope we do not find ourselves in that situation — show that previous legislator do not envisage a situation where the Assembly would not be function . the space for negotiation around the Windsor framework be narrow . we have to be realistic . the Windsor framework be an agreement between the UK and the European Union , and there will be consequence from unpick it unilaterally . equally , we can not unpick the Good Friday agreement , so the space be narrow and centre around implementation . I want to again stress from the Alliance party ' s point of view that we would be open - minded on any solution that come forward . for we , the key element be that Northern Ireland maintain dual market access to both the UK internal market and the wide european market . outside that red line , we be open - minded . if check across the Irish sea can be reduce or limit in some case , we be all for that . none of we want to see they , but at the same time we recognise that due to the fact that Northern Ireland have special arrangement , and there be a good reason for they , some degree of check across the Irish sea might be need . Northern Ireland have always have special arrangement throughout its entire history , right back to the foundation of the state in the early 1920s , and they be accept with pragmatism for very good reason . I urge that that be the case today . on the financial package the Secretary of State refer to , I again put on record my and my party ' s thank to he and his wide team in the Northern Ireland Office and the Treasury for put it together . it be a big financial package than we have see in previous breakdown of devolution . at the same time , however , I have to say that the glass be somewhat half full . it will buy some time for a restore Executive , perhaps a couple of year of stabilisation , but there be still a much big conversation that we have to have in conjunction , potentially , with the next spending review on a proper fiscal floor for Northern Ireland . I appreciate that there be reason why the current Government can not go down that particular avenue , in term of their wide spending commitment and the Prime Minister ' s five pledge , but it be important to stress the point that that wide discussion still need to take place . I join colleague from Northern Ireland in stress that we would like to see the Secretary of State move ahead with the public sector pay issue , which have no leverage whatever in the negotiation . the money be there and it should be release . equally , while we all might wish to dump on the Secretary of State and put pressure on he — he be a player in this regard — frankly , that release would be quick and smooth if DUP colleague return to the Executive tomorrow , next week or whenever . there be two way we can address the rightful claim of public sector worker : through the action of the Secretary of State or a speedy resumption of devolution . in the event that we do not see an outcome in the next couple of week , we must look at alternative . perhaps that be a debate for another day , but there be two direction of travel . for I and my party , reform be the key way forward . the Good Friday agreement be never mean to be set in stone . it be always envisage that it would evolve with circumstance and change demographic . indeed , many of the architect of the agreement — people no less than Senator George Mitchell himself — recognise that review and evolution would be important . reform be important to facilitate restoration , or , if we get restoration , to learn the lesson of the instability , lack of cohesion and unfairness of the past 25 year and prevent a further collapse from happen . but the principle of the agreement , the structure , and the set of relationship across these island remain sound . to conclude , I think it be the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , who make the point that all the party in Northern Ireland be commit to devolution . reform of the agreement keep devolution alive . if we end up with the presume default of go for direct rule , we move outside the Good Friday agreement . it might be the pragmatic solution in the circumstance , because Northern Ireland must be govern and public service have to be fund , but none the less we must recognise that that be a big step away from devolution . reform be consistent with the agreement ; direct rule be not . however — this be an important point to stress to those people who be again oppose a deal and the way forward — in the event that we do not get restoration and we end up with direct rule , that direct rule must have an irish dimension to it . that irish dimension will be consultative and build on exist structure within the agreement . we have to recognise that direct rule , in a divided and diverse Northern Ireland , will be controversial . we have to recognise that in our governance and put in place mechanism that balance it out . that be the reality . [ interruption . ] I say to the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , who be mutter from a sedentary position — I be happy to take an intervention from he on this point — that the principle of consent remain in place . however , the principle of an irish dimension have be establish for quite some time , go back to the anglo - irish agreement . of course , the Good Friday agreement act to take much of that away , but that be the direction of travel . those people who be argue against progress in Northern Ireland and say that we have a cover blanket of direct rule to fall back on , need to think very carefully about what they be call for . what I be set out be not what I want to see , and it be definitely not what they want to see , but that be the trajectory they will find themselves on if we do not see the speedy restoration of the Northern Ireland Executive . the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) and I have not agree on much recently — in fact , he kind of drive I crazy — and we do not agree on much of what we have debate today or over the past couple of year , but I strongly believe that he come at this from a position of strong belief . he come at it in an attempt to represent his constituent . he come at it from a good place . it be a different place from I and we want to end up in a different place — and I might argue that he be help we along in that regard — but I say this very clearly : those people who have threaten he today could not lace his boot , and every single democrat in this House or elsewhere should stand in solidarity with any of we who be be attack like that . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I think we be in a more hopeful place today than we have be . last week , I be expect to debate a much wide piece of legislation that would have see we go in a different direction . if today ' s Bill symbolise that we be get close , at least , to a resolution , we must welcome that and give it space . nobody be more frustrated at the slowness of the process than I be . nobody have express frustration more than I have about how we get into this situation . it be nearly two year since we have a Government in Northern Ireland ; before that , we have covid , which be a very strange time , and before that we have three and a half year , after Sinn F é in bring the Government down , of have no government . People in Northern Ireland now feel that the default setting be to have no government . that be not good enough . any of we in this place who believe in devolution and put their shoulder to the wheel around this peace process , should ensure that , very soon , we have democratically elect politician in Northern Ireland deal with these issue . I find the state of our health service embarrassing . accord to figure that I see the other day on dementia diagnosis , some people in the western part of Northern Ireland be wait nearly six year for a diagnosis . in what modern democracy should that be see as acceptable ? we be very lucky that people be not out on the street in uproar over such figure . the public sector be tie together with a string , and our health service be at the point , if not beyond the point , of collapse . that be not the fault of the people who have be ask to go into the tough place and do the tough work for very little pay . we propose an amendment — and we understand that the scope of the Bill be very narrow — call on the Secretary of State to pay those worker . last week 175 , 000 people be on picket line across Northern Ireland , in the cold and the snow . I think people will know that my preference be for the DUP to return to government as soon as possible , so that we have democratically elect politician make these decision and we can get the money into those people ' s pocket , but I be furious that ordinary worker have be use as a political pawn because of our political failure . that be absolutely unacceptable . those people need their pay rise today . they be the people hold this thing together . they be the people whom we have ask to go and do the tough thing for very little reward , and there be no long any excuse for that money not to be pay . if there be a technical reason for it , I will come back tomorrow and we can debate a Budget Bill if the Secretary of State wish , so that we can get money into those people ' s pocket , but I do not believe there be any technical reason why they can not be pay . we have talk about solution , and a great many have be propose . the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) talk about reform , and we be up for that conversation . in fact , I think that our amendment would have get the Assembly back up and run , if we use a different mechanism for elect a Speaker as at least a first step , although we also understand that we must have properly reform institution in Stormont . I strongly believe , however , that the good time to have that conversation be when we have a Government and an Executive in Stormont , because I fear that otherwise we would end up in a five - year negotiation about what reform would look like , and all the while we would still not have a Government in Stormont and locally elect people deal with people ' s concern . some of we who be in the Chamber today have be through many long negotiation . I know that it be possible to go into a negotiation want to fix one little thing , and five year later not to have fix it and to have do three or four other thing that nobody ask for in the first place . we need to be cautious about that , and we need to be commit to reform . however , the first thing that must happen be that those who be elect to represent the people of Northern Ireland , and the person who be elect to be the First Minister , should be in place and allow to do the job that they be elect to do . then we will be able to have a proper discussion about how we should reform our institution . a blind man on a gallop horse could tell you that we must reform those institution , because they simply be not work . let I make one plea today to all the other political party , and I will make this commitment myself . if we do get Stormont up and run , the next time a particular political party have a major disagreement , can we have a discussion about it , and can we all commit ourselves not to pull the institution down ? the edifice of government should not be the first thing that go when we have a difficult decision to make . I think that that would take we a long way . I be glad that we have arrive at this point . I think that it tell we something about the direction of travel . the history of our place should remind we all that at some point we must take on our own dissident wherever they may reside — in our own party , in our own community , or on social medium . they need to be take on because the representative of a broad swathe of opinion — whether nationalist , unionist or " not interested " — want ordinary people to be look after . they want their health service to be properly resource , they want their school to function properly , and they want their public sector worker to be pay properly . the broad population want a Government in Stormont , and they want it now . rise — Order . before I proceed , let I remind hon . member that the Second Reading debate must end at 3 . 23 pm . I assume they will want to hear the Front Benchers wind it up . I be not go to impose a time limit ; it be up to hon . member whether they choose to hear the Front Benchers or not . without encroach on the advice that you have just give , Mr Deputy Speaker , be I right to assume that there be three Back Benchers still wait to speak ? if that be the case , I think we can pass the time well between we . as thing stand , yes , but one hon . Member leave the Chamber and come back in , and another who indicate that she wish to speak have leave the Chamber but be entitle to come back in because she hear the opening speech , as do one of the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague . all I be say be that I urge brevity . I know that that be difficult , but speech be currently run for more than 10 minute , and that be too long . I be grateful , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I certainly do not take those comment personally , because it be a trait among those of we who be of Ulster - Scots lineage that we sometimes add a few extra word or phrase . I be proud to speak in this debate . let I first acknowledge the constructive tone adopt by the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) . he be right to say that should we find ourselves in circumstance like this in the future , we should talk . if I be not willing to follow the constructive tone of the debate , I would gently remind he that at the time when we try to have those conversation , some be chide we , encourage we to take the action that we do and mock we for not do so ; but I will leave it there . I be also proud to follow the remark of my party leader and the leader of Unionism , my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , who very carefully , clearly and thoughtfully articulate not just where we have be or where we be today , but the aspiration that we have outline for a number of year . we have be to the electorate , and we have highlight the difficulty and the deficit within the arrangement foist on we , but the challenge for we all be to recognise that the prize for restore Northern Ireland ' s place within the United Kingdom , for reduce the constitutional harm and for remove the democratic deficit , be the ability to return to a place where Northern Ireland function as well as it have in the past : a place where people in Northern Ireland be confident of their position within this United Kingdom irrespective of their constitutional outlook , and a place where people in Northern Ireland can recognise that it be through their elect representative directly and locally that they can shape their own future . it do not matter what passport they hold ; they live in Northern Ireland and can benefit from , and do benefit from , a relationship that have span century on these island . my right hon . Friend refer to custodian of the future . I remind member that our place in politic be to protect and promote our place within this United Kingdom . that be our first and foremost principle . to those who have raise question in the last number of day , and who will no doubt continue in the next number of day to raise question or sow discord , let I say this : the Democratic Unionist party be unite in the task that be before we . we highlight the pitfall and the danger of what be propose to we back in 2019 , at a time when other dismiss and demean our position . when we ask for change and indicate the consequence that the proposal could have for power - share arrangement in devolution , we be dismiss . we be set aside . yet through our action , when change be deliver in the Windsor framework , what we have be tell be mythical unicorn suddenly become something that , while be far from rigorous implementation , constitute change that recognise the problem and bring solution . the very same people who have ridicule and dismiss we turn round and say , " of course all this be sensible and pragmatic , and we should move forward . " when face with the choice between religious observance of that which be agree with the European Union and the importance of devolution , sadly there be those within Northern Ireland political society who choose religious observance of the EU . they lose sight of the prize of power sharing in Northern Ireland , where community with different aspiration could work collectively together . that be where we find ourselves . the Secretary of State and I have engage on this , as he have with a number of colleague over a considerable period of time , and I commend he for a number of thing , include for deliver a speech that have few word than be in the Bill before we today . that be a remarkable achievement . but he do not have many choice that be workable , other than to present the Bill today . of course , he could have bring forward legislation that address a budget for next year . he could have bring forward legislation that assume power from Stormont to here in Westminster . he could have bring forward legislation that set a regional rate of around 15 % . I think it be fair in the context of this debate to recognise that he still may need to bring forward such legislation . while other speculate about the intention of this short Bill — I have my own view on it and what it should have be — I think it be a recognition that there be still work to be do and that there be a commitment to do that work . I can not say where this will end . I know where I think it should end . I can not say what the ultimate outcome will be , but what I see and hear and read in the paper at home bear no resemblance to reality . my party be at one in our position . we have stand together through bad time than this . anybody who think they be go to come at one member of our party over the come day and week come at we all , and they do so for their nefarious end , not for our collective future . the choice will become stark , but let we make a choice on the basis of where we be , not where other who do not wish anything to work think it be . that be the challenge for we , for the people of Northern Ireland and for the people we represent . in stand in the position that I do today , with nine year as an elect representative in this House and 14 year as an elect representative and as someone who have live in Northern Ireland benefit long from period of peace than see troubled time , I can say that nothing will shake our resolve to get this right . I say that with only this in mind : the Secretary of State have take the choice available to he today in proceed with this Bill , and it do not end today . it can not end today , and our commitment for the future need to be embolden far still . I be not too sure why we have the Bill in this form today , with the suggestion that we could have further legislation on 8 February . I suppose the generous interpretation be that the Government still recognise that a lot of work need to be do to deal with the concern of the unionist population . the other interpretation be that this be an attempt to put short - term pressure on my party to come to an agreement on the basis of term that be unacceptable . I know that the Government be intent on try to put the failure of their negotiation with the EU behind they because they have so much internal division with their own party about how they have fail to deliver on the promise of Brexit , but cement this agreement into the constitutional position of Northern Ireland be not good for a Government who claim that they want to take back sovereignty , and it be not acceptable to Unionists in Northern Ireland who have go through terrorist campaign , and show resolve in terrorist campaign , in order to stay within the United Kingdom . we have have all kind of pressure put on we . we have have threat . we have even hear more of those threat today , such as , " if you don ' t go down the route of get a resolution here , we will have to re - examine the Belfast agreement . we will maybe have to take away the safeguard that be put in place . " with Unionists now not be the dominant party in the Assembly , it be easy for those who say safeguard for minority be important in the agreement to dismiss they now . I listen to the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , and it be little wonder that many people in North Down regard he now as a Sinn F é in cuckoo in the constituency nest , because he talk and argue so much as though he be come from a Sinn F é in position , rather than from the position of a constituency that be predominantly unionist . we have have the threat , include that there might be a change in the agreement that would take away the consensus , or that we might have direct rule that involve the Irish Republic , even though there be no provision for that in the Good Friday agreement . of course , the Secretary of State have seek to say this at time — or through surrogate . I notice that the hon . member for North Down echo the word of the Chairman of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee in threaten that there could be big change that would be detrimental to the Union if we do not come to an agreement quickly . we have have the bribe , and of course we have also have the bullying : " if you don ' t go back into the Assembly , people will not get their pay rise . " I have to say to the Secretary of State that it do not become the current Government to use the worker in Northern Ireland as pawn in try to push we into a situation . he well know that this be unnecessary , because nearly 50 public sector pay agreement have be award in the last year . however , because there be now an opportunity to use public sector pay agreement , they be be use to exert pressure . as far as we be concern , and as our leader have make clear , we want to see devolution restore . in fact , devolution stop only because the Government refuse to listen . furthermore , not only do they refuse to listen but they expect Unionists to stay in position in Northern Ireland where they would have have to implement the very thing that we believe be destructive to our economy and will destroy the Union as well . that be an act of last resort . nevertheless , the Government must be aware that the economic impact of the border in the Irish sea must be remove . the shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say today that the red lane be only for good move into the Republic and that that surely show the integrity of the UK internal market . that be not true . there be many business in Northern Ireland that will have to use the red lane until they show where their good have go . I speak to a businessman this morning in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) who tell I that he have a consignment of good come in this week with 151 individual item for which he have to identify the country of origin , change the product code and provide weight and a whole range of other information . he be a small businessman . he send I a message he have receive from a major supplier in Manchester , where he buy 10 % of his good , who have finally say to he , " I can ' t trade with you anymore . it be not worth my while , give the amount of paperwork . " he operate in Newtownards and none of his good sell in the Irish Republic , yet he be subject to all this . now he have to look for new supply chain , and it have be point out here many time before that the Irish Government be not behind the door in exploit that . in fact , he tell I that official from the trade body in the Irish Republic ring he up on a regular basis and ask why do not buy from such and such a supplier in the Republic . it be no wonder that we have already see a 15 % trade diversion as a result of this . this be hurt we economically . in the long term , it be hurt we constitutionally , too , with the application of EU law in Northern Ireland . we have see it in the last week on animal safety standard , which can not apply in Northern Ireland even though the law be pass by this House . regulation on illegal immigration can not apply in Northern Ireland , and there be a danger of have to introduce passport control if Northern Ireland become a magnet for illegal immigration . we now have Bills be pass by Parliament that extend to Northern Ireland but can not apply to Northern Ireland , and we can not tolerate that . unless those issue be deal with , and as the Secretary of State well know , how could any Unionist be expect to accept that trade within our country continue to be disrupt ? it will hurt business and , in the long term , our constitutional arrangement , cause divergence between Northern Ireland and the country to which we belong . my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) indicate that he be prepared to work to resolve that challenge , and he have indicate that he take personal abuse for work at it — that be the position in which politician now find themselves in Northern Ireland . we do not create this problem . the Government create this problem , and courageous people such as my right hon . friend should not be hang out to dry because the Government be not prepared to take on their master in the EU . I call Jim Shannon . I would be grateful if he try to confine his remark to five minute . I will certainly do my good , Mr Deputy Speaker . over the past few day I have receive correspondence , email and text message from the people I represent and , as Unionists , they be all concerned about where we be with the protocol . my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) mention my constituent in Ards , who send I a text message this morning outline the concern amount of bureaucracy he go through for each of the 300 item he order from a wholesaler in Manchester . what be the point of the protocol ? many constituent tell I that the point be to press the DUP to give up and go back in ; the point be to strong - arm the unionist people by withhold the necessary money — the Secretary of State will not use his power to allocate it . the Secretary of State know that I have the great respect for he , and I always try to be courteous , but I can understand why some constituent believe that , because they see the Government legislate for something as non - urgent as relationship and sex education in school , yet they will not give a pay rise to public sector worker . the union want it , the £ 3 . 3 billion be there and the £ 600 million necessary for the wage increase be there . I suggest that the Secretary of State allocate the money immediately . the mindset of the Northern Ireland people be perhaps not understand . as a people who be bomb and attack by IRA nationalist for 30 year , we be not easily pressure or cow . when it come to protect that for which my family and many other family shed their blood , we will not be blackmail . my constituent want I to make it clear that all those who give their life for queen and country , as it be then , or King and country , as it be now , die for freedom , liberty and democracy . I be give to understand that progress have be make , which I welcome . we want to see constructive progress , but I understand that we be not there yet . we be perhaps far from it , but there have be progress . my constituent be concerned about how this have be handle . instead of be anxious to hear about how far thing have move and what have be achieve , the result of the seem blackmail be distrust . there be a feeling that the DUP have do its good for the nation , and I believe we be head towards something that , constitutionally and practically , would prevent our child from have to fill in ream of unnecessary paperwork and allow they to operate in the UK as normal . under the Windsor framework , our shopkeeper continue to have to sign off Trader Support Service declaration for good from the UK , yet there be no paperwork when they purchase good from the Republic . member will understand why we be a little less british in Northern Ireland than they be in Wales , Scotland or England . the presumption should be that Northern Ireland be UK - focus . we want to be UK - focus , and we want to continue buy from where we buy thing in the past . our trader , include those who trade with shop in Newtownards and Bangor , be pay accountant and spend money and man hour on something that need not be do . one ridiculous example among many be pet treat that be deem not to be safe to sell in Northern Ireland . they be safe before the Northern Ireland protocol and be still safe at the other end of the ferry journey in Scotland . we be work towards something that allow the health service to secure the same medication as NHS England , and that enable vet to access anything they need for their animal without additional cost or paperwork . this would reaffirm our place within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and stop reunification through the back door . these be the thing that the DUP , ably lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , have be work towards . the undoubted change that have be secure will not easily be trust by the unionist people , not because the DUP have attempt to pull the wool over people ' s eye but because the unionist people , whom we support and who support we , believe the media hype , and the action of this Government appear to underline that hype . the Secretary of State be aware that we in the DUP will not be blackmail , and that we have continue to negotiate and secure further change be testament to the fact that we will not accept just any deal . we will only accept the right deal . I fervently hope that the next few week bring about the last complex change require for the good of the unionist people and , indeed , of people throughout the Province , no matter what their political persuasion . there should be no doubt that , should we fail to negotiate the correct deal , we will not be afraid to face our electorate . I look forward to see the deal and how the word on the page will affect life in Northern Ireland . although I support a two - week extension and understand the reason for it , I ask the Government to get the messaging right . instead of seem to work against we , they should work with we to find a solution and to get this right for every person of every colour and creed in Northern Ireland . we want a restore assembly , but it must be the right deal . the Conservative and Unionist party ' s Northern Ireland protocol have to be address . the power to make the necessary change lie at the foot of the Secretary of State and with the Government . we will do our good to bring about change and to find a deal , but we can not , will not and must not ignore the voice of Unionism . I thank all member who have contribute to this debate . we be unite in want the good for the people of Northern Ireland . in particular , we hear a very powerful speech from the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , and no one who hear it could be in any doubt about his determination to fight hard for Unionism . the whole House will be sorry to hear that he have be threaten . anyone try to bully he clearly do not know he . as my right hon . friend the shadow Secretary of State outline , Labour support this Bill and support the ongoing effort to restore the Executive as soon as possible . in the short amount of extra time afford by this legislation , the restoration of power sharing and devolved government must be the Government ' s absolute priority . while I commend the important work that civil servant be do to keep the mechanic of the state functioning , the truth be that community across Northern Ireland need the Executive and the Members of the Legislative Assembly to be back in their rightful place , take the important decision that be so desperately need for the effective delivery of public service , health , education and to protect the environment . on my visit to Northern Ireland , I have meet many inspiring community group that be struggle because of cut and because of the cost of living crisis . although all of these group be make an enormous difference within and across their community , they have all tell I that the one thing that would make the big difference to their work , and for people who be suffer from the cost of living crisis , be a restore and function Executive . just last week we see the big industrial action in Northern Ireland ' s recent history , with an estimate 150 , 000 public sector worker join the strike . there be clear and obvious widespread dissatisfaction with the impact and consequence of the current political situation in Northern Ireland . give that the Government be legislate only to push the deadline back by 15 day , it be vital that we see quick progress and that the limited time available be not squander . as the shadow Secretary of State have say , whatever happen , the money for public sector pay , which the Secretary of State have make clear be available , should be release , so that worker in Northern Ireland finally get the pay increase they deserve . the current situation must not be allow to become the accept norm . a failure to restore devolved government could cause and be cause damage that could take year to undo . labour will support this Bill . I urge the Secretary of State to do all he can to ensure that an agreement be reach and to keep the House inform at every stage . with the leave of the House , I call Chris Heaton - Harris . with the leave of the House , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to close this second reading debate . at the beginning , I speak for a whole two minute , because I want to hear what everybody have to say . I be hope it would not go on quite as — [ interruption . ] quite as well as it do , but some important speech be make , which I will come to in a moment . clause 1 state : " in section 1 ( 1 ) of the Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation etc ) Act 2022 , for " 18 January 2024 " substitute " 8 February 2024 " . it provide for a short extension in time . clause 2 deal with the extent , commencement and short title of the Bill . my two - minute speech be simply about keep within scope , but we have manage to touch on scottish independence , public sector pay , leave the European Union , the Malthouse compromise , the Select Committee on Northern Ireland Affairs agenda and reform of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , all within two hour . I shall learn yet another lesson about Northern Ireland debate on the Floor of this House , and just say what I think all the time at the very beginning . a number of excellent intervention be make in the debate . I will talk about the speech we hear , but the intervention from my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) and the hon . member for South Antrim ( Paul Girvan ) be all interesting and important . I wish to put on record for the hon . member for St Helens North ( Conor McGinn ) that the whole House wish his uncle well ; the hon . Gentleman be not in his place , but it be important that we recognise that we be all human in this business . I thank all those who make speech in the debate : the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) ; my right hon . friend the Member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) ; the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) ; my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) ; the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) , who give a fantastic speech and I associate myself with many of the comment he make ; the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) ; the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who make a characteristically passionate speech — I really appreciate the way in which he put his word and what he say — and , of course , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . the stand - out contribution come from the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , and I thank he profusely for the conversation we have have over the course of the past week and month . I know that he really do want to get the good deal for Northern Ireland that work for both the nationalist and the unionist community , that be base on consent and that mean that he can find the condition to restore the institution . I know that he and his party believe in devolution . he list the number of thing that he have manage to achieve during his leadership of his party , and he should be and can be rightly proud of what he have already achieve in that space . the fact that the right hon . Gentleman have be threaten for do the job he should be do be a disgrace — it be extraordinary . unfortunately , everyone in this place have to come across such thing . the people make these threat be coward and idiot , and I know that they will not deter he . I have notice in my time as Secretary of State that the number of follower someone have on Twitter , or x , do not necessarily equate to the number of brain cell they might have or the amount of common sense or decency they display as a human being . those characteristic be personal and one that someone can display as a human being . unfortunately , some people choose to have a different persona when they be on social medium and when they be email some really stupid thing . I promise he that I shall work with he and use whatever power I have to make sure that he do not feel insecure in go about his business properly , because no parliamentarian should feel that . as I say , I thank all hon . member for their contribution . when we gather to mark the 25th anniversary of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement last year , we note that the hard - win gain of the peace process should be honour by the restoration of the devolved institution . there be broad agreement on the main substance of this Bill : that our priority must be to continue to restore devolution in Northern Ireland . I be ask about this by the shadow Front - Bench team , so let I say that that be the immediate issue on which I be completely concentrated . the right hon . member for Leeds Central ask what other legislation there might be . there could be future legislation , but I do not want to be in that place . he ask I to make a statement if thing move , in order to keep the House update . I absolutely guarantee that I will do so , should thing move forward . of course , he would expect I to be prepare for all eventuality , and I will update the House on my plan if it do not prove possible to restore the Executive by the new deadline . but I really do hope that those plan will not be need . the right hon . Gentleman ask about public sector pay , and a number of other Members mention it . the Government recognise the vital work that public sector worker carry out and they should be fairly pay in recognition of that work . however , the UK Government do not have the authority to negotiate pay in Northern Ireland . I recognise that the uncertainty on pay award be cause pressure on Northern Ireland finance , which be why the Government put a fair and generous financial package on the table , offer a new Executive a non - repayable injection of help to restore the executive and manage that pressure . this be not intend to spoil the mood , but the trade union would be quite upset if we do not take the opportunity to say that they be not ask the Northern Ireland Office to negotiate their pay ; they will negotiate with their employer , as be right in the normal course of event . they be ask that the money that be secure and agree in December be release to their employer , so that they can get on and have the negotiation . I hear what the hon . Gentleman say , but that be a complete package that be available for a restore Executive . I promise at the beginning of this debate to be as brief as possible . I know that we have more work to do in this Parliament on different subject , but I hope shortly to be in a position where I can return to this Dispatch Box celebrate the return of a wonderful institution of devolve government in Northern Ireland . practically speak , this step — to secure Royal Assent on this legislation — be the first step along that route . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Committee of the whole House ( Order , this day ) . Bill consider in Committee ( Order , this day ) [ Mr Nigel Evans in the Chair ] I remind member that , in Committee , the Chair should not be address as " Deputy Speaker . " please use our name when address the Chair , although " Mr Chairman " and " Madam Chairman " be also acceptable . clause 1 and 2 order to stand part of the Bill . it will stand on the record that my contribution be long than anybody else ' s during this Committee stage . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the Third Time . I wish to place on the record my sincere thank to everyone involve in the Bill ' s passage through the House for their support for its expedite passage . I particularly thank the Front Benchers of all party for their collaborative and constructive engagement . on Second Reading , a whole host of issue concern Northern Ireland have a reasonable outing . I would like to think that the tone of the debate we have have over the course of the past two hour will be reflect in the positive tone we can take in our negotiation and talk over the next few hour and day , or however long it may be , so that we can get to the wonderful place that I believe we all want to get to . I reiterate my comment about the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) and his word . I have really enjoy work with he , listen to he and understand the point he make when he represent Unionism so powerfully , as he do . I know it be vital to he that we get this right . occasionally , some of our conversation have be repetitive , but they all have a point . I hope he would acknowledge that I have a deep and fundamental understanding of the issue that he and his party have be outline during the past few day , week and month , and I would like to think that those issue be be reflect in the conversation we be have now . I do not think anybody in the House do not want to see Stormont return , the Assembly sit , the Executive up and run , and minister make the choice that the people who elect they would like to see . I be mindful that the Secretary of State introduce his comment by talk about the good will that we have hear in the exchange between member as we try to find a way forward . will he use some of that good will to ensure that the £ 600 million need to address the pay agreement with the medical sector and teacher be find from the £ 3 . 3 billion that he have ? he must build upon that good will , make that gesture and ensure that the union have the pay increase they seek , on which there be consensus from all party on the Opposition Benches . will he use that good will , build upon it and make that gesture today ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution , but I have say all I be go to say on that matter for today . it have be nearly two year since the institution have be up and run , and a lot of water have pass under the bridge . like the hon . Gentleman , I meet people from across Northern Ireland , those from both community and those who be new to Northern Ireland , who have choose to work and live there . they all want to see their institution up and run , and that be important for democracy too . we all need to see the result of an election that be fairly fight deliver , because we be all democrat in this place . I prefer to win election , rather than lose they — I very much hope I manage to maintain my lucky streak that I have have since I start to represent my seat of Daventry . democracy be vital to our system , as be ensure that every voter feel hear through the ballot box . I place on the record my thank to those who have engage in the debate . I also place on the record my appreciation to the House authority and the Office of the parliamentary Counsel for their continue expert advice . right hon . and hon . member involve in the debate know that there could have be a different piece of legislation lay today , and that be probably where we be progress to , so the slight course correction that we have make involved a huge amount of help from the people behind the scene who make this place function so well . I put on the record my thank to they . I thank my colleague and official in the Government Whips Office for help we progress in a smooth fashion . as ever , I be grateful to they for everything they do . as a former Government Chief Whip , I understand their pain . I conclude by repeat what I say on Second Reading . People in Northern Ireland rightly expect and deserve to see locally elect decision maker address the issue that matter to they . I agree with they , and I genuinely believe the House do too . now I can see the relief on the face of the Government Whips . I will keep my remark extremely short . once again , I thank the Secretary of State for be punctilious , in the proper sense of the word , in his dealing with I and in keep I informed about what he have plan . I echo his thank to civil servant , although I should think in civil service career this be probably the easy Bill to draft because that one line can not have take terribly long . I join the praise for the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) for the speech he make and the passion he show , and his willingness to set out the argument that have unite all part of the House , namely that it be in the interest of the people of Northern Ireland to have their government back . in whatever further conversation they be due to have in the next few day , I wish he and the Secretary of State every success in bring the situation to a conclusion . in the end , the people who will feel the benefit of an agreement be the people of Northern Ireland . we criticise the government , but we look to they when we want thing to be do — when we want they to help we to deal with problem or to advance the interest of society . that be why the people of Northern Ireland have the same right as everyone else to see their Government in place . let I refer back to the comment that I make at the start of Second reading : I bring my contribution to the passage of the Bill to a close in , I think , a slightly well state of hope than when it begin . I wish all those involve every success . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . situation in the Red Sea I beg to move , that this House have consider the situation in the Red Sea . last week at Lancaster House , I set out why we be live in a far more dangerous world . member will need no reminding that we be deal with multiple conflict at once : Russia have increase the intensity of its attack on Ukraine ; the appalling Hamas atrocity of 7 October have bring conflict to that region ; and , most recently of all , international shipping be now be threaten by Houthi proxy aid and abet by Iran . since November , there have be more than 40 attack on commercial vessel across the region . it be salutary to think that it have be 30 year since the maritime law be codify in the United Nations convention on the law of the sea . some 168 nation back the UNCLOS treaty . the UK sign it , Yemen accede to it , and even Iran be a signatory to it . there be a good reason why it have achieve such broad support . all nation rely on global trade , and none more so than the UK , give that a full 90 % of UK commerce come to we by sea . some 12 % of international trade pass through the Red sea every single year , amount to more than $ 1 trillion - worth of good . in addition , 8 % of global grain trade , 12 % of seaborne trade oil and 8 % of the world ' s liquefy natural gas all pass through this ancient seaway . perhaps even more astonishing be that 40 % of the good that be trade between Europe and Asia go through the Red sea . sadly , the Houthis ' unlawful and callous attack be put all that trade at risk . twelve international company have be force to suspend the passage through the Red sea because of the attack . the number of vessel transit Bab al - Mandab be 54 % below the level observe in the previous year , and divert vessel around the Cape of Good Hope have have a crippling impact , not only add day of delay to vital delivery but drive up international shipping cost to prohibitive level . some report suggest that shipping cost be up by 300 % . what these Iran - back Houthi pirate thug forget be that it be the least well - off nation and people who suffer the most from their illegal action , start with Yemen itself , where almost all food come by sea . at time like these , nation must stand up . attack on Red sea shipping automatically make this a global problem . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his recent speech . accord to the House of Commons Library , there be 12 iranian proxy force in Bahrain , Iraq , Lebanon , the palestinian territory and Yemen , so this be not just about the Houthis , although that be what we be deal with now . to what extent be we able to keep tab on and monitor , or to work with ally who can keep tab on and monitor , those dozen proxy force that , sadly , Iran be now use with increase repetitiveness to attack not only our interest but the interest of our ally ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; he be something of an expert in this area . Iran be absolutely behind all the different proxy group that he outline , and many more . in a way , Iran be able to control this situation without get too involve itself , and the world need to wake up and recognise that . we be of course monitor all of that incredibly closely . appease the Houthis now , or all these other group , will not lead to a more stable tomorrow , in the case of the Houthis , in respect of the Red sea . be blind to the sponsor of terror will not benefit the international order in the long run , which be why it be so important that the world have act . I apologise for interrupt the Defence Secretary . on the shipping side of thing , there have be an extraordinary reduction in confidence in that route . the only way to restore the confidence of ship to pass through the gulf of Aden and up through the Red sea be an increase in military convoy . I be sure he be come to this , but what step be be take to drive up military convoy to escort vessel through that passage ? as ever , my hon . friend raise an excellent point . that be what Operation Prosperity Guardian be all about : that taskforce enable ship to be protect to an extent . he may be get at the broad point of whether individual ship should be protect . the view that the world have take be that Prosperity Guardian provide an umbrella to ship more widely . the sheer volume of ordinary traffic through the Red sea mean that we need that US - lead international taskforce for the security of the Red sea and the gulf of Aden . this be incredibly important . after all , we be part of defend the international rule - base order in the action that we be take . last week , I be onboard HMS Diamond — which be right at the heart of the issue in the Red sea — talk to our brave sailor who be out there protect our critical sea lane . the House will know that this be the first Royal Navy ship ' s company for 32 year who have fire in anger — or in self - defence , in their case . [ Official Report , 29 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 8MC . ] it be fascinating to talk to they about their experience and to witness their professionalism in deal with this challenge . it really do not have to be this way . we work hard to warn the Houthis off . at the start of the year , the world send a very clear message to the Houthis : " end your illegal and unjustified action . stop risk innocent life . please stop illegally detain vessel and crew . cease threaten the global economy . " all those warning fall on deaf ear , and eventually enough be enough . I completely support the Government ' s action , which be totally in accordance with international law and defend freedom of navigation on the high sea , but we can only do it with people ; otherwise , there will be no one to maintain the Typhoons or crew the warship . People be leave three time as fast as we be recruit , as the Secretary of State be aware . will he commit to come to the House before Easter to make a statement on what we be do about the retention of critical armed force personnel ? he know why it be important . my right hon . friend have be very solid on these issue , which he and I have speak about in the Defence Committee and elsewhere . he will be pleased to know that I have recently hold meeting with individual he believe will help to resolve the issue . in common with many western military , I be work very hard to ensure that we have the man and woman we need in our armed force , skille up to the right level and capable of take on this challenge . he will be reassure to know that I go to Akrotiri last week and meet the Typhoon pilot . they be incredibly highly skilled , and back by an enormous array of tanker pilot , ground crew , mechanic and many other . it be very important that we support they . I be work very hard on this , and will come back to my right hon . friend , the Defence Committee and the House with future plan to back up what Haythornthwaite and other have propose . a fortnight ago , the Prime Minister , relevant Cabinet Ministers and I authorise the RAF precision strike use four Typhoon FGR4s , support by two Voyager air - refuel tanker . they strike facility at Bani in north - western Yemen and an airfield at Abbs . the site have be use to launch reconnaissance and attack drone as well as cruise missile over the Red sea , and they be destroy . let I reiterate what have be say before : this be limited , necessary and proportionate . it be do in self - defence in response to very specific threat and in line with international law . I thank my right hon . friend for his contribution and for all he have be do over the past few week . as he make clear , this have be an increasingly difficult situation — we have no choice but to act . what be our assessment of the extent to which we need to degrade Houthi capability in order for they to change their intent and action ? as yet , I be unclear as to whether we have the ability to look into what the Houthis be think , let alone Iran ' s activity . we must also recognise that the Houthis be , at good , a disobedient ally and not really a proxy , so they do have their own interest that they be pursue . my hon . friend , with her immense experience and perspective as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , be absolutely right about the formation of the Houthis , who , if we look back at their history , be actually opportunist . only as far back as 2015 , they do not support Hamas . now they claim their entire programme be in support of Hamas ' illegal activity . she also quite rightly ask what proportion of the Houthi equipment and machinery have be destroy . we work with other to assess the battle damage , as it be . I can confirm that the attack so far have be complete in their target , but the Houthis ' modus operandi be flexibility , and they will use launch site as they see fit , which be why our US ally have be use what they would describe as dynamic strike , as they ping up . sadly , as my hon . friend and the House will know , the Houthis continue to persist even though they have be deal a blow . a further 12 attack follow , include anti - ship ballistic missile and an unmanned aerial system that strike two US - own merchant vessel . our intelligence have continue to highlight an ongoing and imminent threat to our commercial and military vessel across the region . as the Prime Minister tell the House just yesterday , attempt to respond to the Houthis after they launch their irrational assault be simply not a sustainable way to proceed , so on Monday night , work alongside our US partner , but also with support from Australia , Bahrain , Canada and the Netherlands , the Prime Minister and I authorise a second wave of strike . they be once again deploy use precision - guide Paveway IV missile , and destroy eight target near Sanaa airfield , take out cluster of Miraj surface - to - air missile launcher and far degrade the Houthis ' ability to hold our sea to ransom . our targeting be once again carefully plan and precise and we be not aware of there be any civilian casualty at all , and the operation be design in that context . it be a complex joint operation involve close co - operation between UK and US aircrew . I wish to pay tribute to our brave pilot and aircrew , who carry out the action so very effectively . last week , as I mention , it be a real honour to meet those pilot and the support team in Akrotiri — each of they professional to the last . the military track be only one part of a much more comprehensive Government response . as the Prime Minister set out in his statement yesterday , we be work diplomatically to reduce the regional tension , make it clear , especially to the Iranians , that they must stop supply weapon , intelligence , training and money to the Houthis . we be work with our ally to halt the illegal flow of arm to the Houthi militia . we be work and seek to cut off the Houthis ' financial support , and we be determined to help the people of Yemen , whom the Houthis be not friend of , to ensure that they receive the humanitarian aid they need . despite the Houthis ' absurd claim to be the Robin Hood of Yemen , the reality be they be simply exploit the turmoil in the middle east to their own advantage and in their own self - interest — a point make strongly to I when I speak to the President of Yemen recently . Ordinary Yemenis have not benefit one iota from their malign activity . on the contrary , they be victim of the same Houthi thuggery as anyone else . it hit our trade and the world ' s trade , and will only in the end hurt the yemeni population , damage their security and drive up food price . however , the Houthis should be in no doubt that the world need they to cease and desist their illegal behaviour . today , as I say , we be live in what feel like a more dangerous world , but the UK will not be cow . we will not retreat to our shore . instead , we will continue to lead . as the whole House know , we be already lead in Ukraine ; we have increase our military support to £ 2 . 5 billion and sign a historic agreement on security co - operation , lay the foundation for a century - long partnership with our ukrainian friend . we be also lead in NATO and have send some 20 , 000 personnel to participate in Exercise Steadfast Defender . to put that into context , there be 32 country involve in the NATO exercise and we be provide half the personnel . return to the subject of today ' s debate , we be also lead in the Red sea . this great waterway be one of mankind ' s early trade route , active since the day of the Pharaohs and through roman time . we will do all we can to keep it active in the 21st century as well . we be work with our ally to deter regional danger , keep those vital sea lane open so that our ship and many other can traverse the ancient water without fear . today the House be set to debate the full sweep of defence and international affair until the change of business yesterday , which give this debate its focus on the Red sea . I know that member on all side will welcome the opportunity to debate and to question the Government on the UK ' s presence and the tension in this part of the middle east , and I look forward to the contribution from all side to the debate . nevertheless , I hope Ministers will ensure that we get the opportunity soon to debate the broad aspect of defence , especially on Ukraine , as the Defence Secretary indicate in his remark he be keen to do . in the old day — I have be here a long time — we have debate in Government time on defence , as we do this afternoon , but in recent time we have not do so and the debate have be down to the Backbench Business Committee . I very much welcome the Committee , which be a great organisation , but none the less we ought to have defence debate in Government time on a Tuesday or Wednesday , set by the Government . I hope the Secretary of State will ensure that that happen in future . the hon . Gentleman have great experience and he be right to say that government time signal the importance that the Government give to the business they bring to this House . while the Backbench Business Committee do an important and useful job , it be Government time that matter . since the Defence Secretary have be in post , we have not have that general debate on defence , and we should . we have not have a debate on Ukraine for four month , and we should , certainly ahead of the bloody two - year anniversary next month of Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . we have also not have a debate since 7 October on Israel and Palestine , which be extraordinary . there be an irony that , have we go ahead with the original debate on international relation , that could have be a subject for debate , but we be restrict by this debate . it be clear why the situation in the Red sea be a priority , but that be probably also a priority , which the Government might wish to take up , and which I have raise previously with the Leader of the House . at the risk of sound a bit like the shadow Leader of the House respond to a business question , my hon . friend be right . he be very experienced and I be sure he will find a way , as the Prime Minister do yesterday in his statement about the Red sea action , to talk more widely about Israel and Palestine without test Mr Deputy Speaker ' s patience too far . I thank the right hon . member for his remark about Ukraine . it be important , in the context of everything that be happen globally , that we take the opportunity once again to say that we stand in Ukraine , particularly in the light of the change political landscape in North America . all of we here , and our ally in Europe , have a responsibility to send a message that we will do everything necessary to support that country , which must prevail against Putin ' s aggression . I , for one , appreciate the right hon . Gentleman ' s leadership of his party when Putin invade Ukraine . like we , he have demonstrate that the UK have be and remain totally unite behind Ukraine and in confront russian aggression . I say to the Defence Secretary that one of the important thing that the Government do by organise a debate in the House be signal the importance that all side of the House give to the support to Ukraine . it be also a chance to explain to the british public why this matter so much , and why defence of the UK start in Ukraine . it be essential to our interest that Ukraine prevail , not Putin . one way in which one can stretch the term of the debate a little far than its precise wording without infringe any rule be to remark upon the fact that in the Red sea , british naval asset be particularly important . do the shadow Secretary of State agree that there should be no question , now or in the near or medium future , of our lose our amphibious assault ship , which be so necessary for the combine operation that one must engage in when take on piratical opponent ? perfectly do , Sir Julian . one other way of stretch the limit of a tightly draw debate be experience intervention of the nature that the right hon . Gentleman have just demonstrate . one advantage of debate such as this be that we hear from the Government not just at the start of the debate , but at the end , so we can look forward to the Minister pick up and respond to the right hon . Gentleman ' s question when he wind up . but what do you think ? what do I think ? well , it would be helpful to have access to the sort of classified information that the Defence Secretary have in order to make these decision . it be his responsibility to do so , and it be our responsibility in this House to challenge and hold he to account when he make those decision — and , of course , if he fail to make decision . perhaps I might return to the Red sea and the theme and focus of this debate . we now have around 2 , 500 military personnel in the middle east , and I begin by recognise their special service . many be deploy at short notice — most be away from their family over Christmas — help to supply essential aid for Palestinians in Gaza , work to reinforce regional security and reduce the risk of wide escalation , and , in case such as those of the crew of HMS Diamond and the pilot of the Typhoons and air tanker , operate under great pressure and threat . they undertake their task with total professionalism . we thank they and be proud of they . at this juncture , I think it worth point out — the Secretary of State may want to refer to this — that iranian proxy be regularly rocket , or attempt to rocket , US basis in Iraq , some of which have a UK presence . it be only through good luck , and complex air defence , if I understand correctly , that there have not be considerable US casualty or potential UK casualty . that be a point that we need to bear in mind when we talk not only about iranian proxy but about UK force in the middle east . the hon . Gentleman have insight into the situation that be rare , even in this House , from his own experience and his particular interest . he be totally right . it be not just about the risk of Iranian - back proxy in Iraq : the iranian interest in Iraq , and the attack on american basis and personnel — as the hon . Gentleman rightly say , some of those basis be share with UK personnel — constitute one of the flashpoint and risk of wide escalation . mercifully , none of those attack have lead to any death , but they have lead to some injury . give that we have 2 , 500 UK personnel in the region , and give the heighten risk they may face , it would be good to hear what additional protection and measure the Defence Secretary be ensure be put in place . our UK military presence in the Red sea protect international shipping and strengthen regional security . if anyone doubt that , consider what the consequence would be of no action be take to deal with the Houthi attack . that extremist force , back by Iran and with a long record of brutal piracy in the region , could attack commercial ship at will and attack our Navy ' s ship without consequence . they be target the ship of all nation , threaten the freedom of global trade and put civilian and military life in serious danger . that be why last month , 20 country join the Red sea maritime protection force , Operation Prosperity Guardian ; it be why this month , the UN Security Council pass a resolution condemn the Houthis ' action and demand that their attack stop ; and it be why the UK and the US , with operational support from four other nation , have conduct joint strike on Houthi missile site , command centre and weapon store . we back the two UK - US joint air strike carry out this month . we accept that they be target , necessary and devise to minimise the risk to civilian life , and we will judge any future UK military action on its merit . minister have say that the aim of these strike be first to degrade Houthi capability , and secondly to deter their attack . we accept that the attack be justify , but we ask the Defence Secretary to confirm how they be also effective . we know that deterrence be a slide scale , so we ask the Defence Secretary how the Government will guard against Britain be suck deeply into the yemeni conflict . we also back the lead role that the Royal Navy play in the continue military defence of shipping from all nation against further Houthi missile , drone and attack boat . however , the lion ' s share of the responsibility for protect international freedom of navigation in the Red sea be be shoulder by the Americans , just as the US have be do across the world for nearly 80 year . what action be the Government take to persuade other country to join the maritime protection force ? what be they do to persuade those already involve to deploy more ship ? what effort be they make to encourage other nation with a big global trade interest to play a part in protect freedom of navigation and use their influence to stop the Houthi attack , and how long do the Defence Secretary expect Operation Prosperity Guardian to be need ? the US aircraft carrier USS Dwight D . Eisenhower have be essential to the operation to date in the Red sea . be the UK carrier ready to deploy to the Red sea if require ? have the Defence Secretary make the decision to not deploy HMS Queen Elizabeth , and if not , why not ? a UK destroyer , HMS Diamond — to which the Defence Secretary have pay tribute — have also play a hugely important and impressive part in the maritime task force . she have be in the Red sea for nearly two month and will need to be rotate out . do we have a second UK destroyer available to replace HMS Diamond in the Red sea , and if not , what will replace she ? if that be to be HMS Richmond , when will she arrive in the Red sea , and how will that change the capability that we can contribute to Operation Prosperity Guardian ? we must cut the illegal flow of arm to the Houthi militia . the US intercept a weapon shipment about two week ago , and the UK have successfully do similarly in the past . what be the UK ' s capability and plan for do so again now ? rather as the Defence Secretary indicate , military action on its own can not solve the problem in the region , so what diplomatic action be the Government take to pressure the Houthis to cease their attack , to settle the civil war in Yemen , and to pressure Iran to stop supply weapon and intelligence to the Houthis ? like the Defence Secretary today and the Leader of the Opposition yesterday , I totally reject the Houthi claim that fire missile and drone at ship from around the world be somehow link to the conflict in Gaza . they have be attack oil tanker and seize ship for least five year , not just in the past 109 day since 7 October . these attack do absolutely nothing for the palestinian people . we want the Gaza fighting to stop , with a humanitarian truce now and then a sustainable ceasefire to stop the killing of innocent citizen , get all remain hostage out and get much more aid into Gaza . this be what we have be call for in public , and what we have be work for in private . our leader , our shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , and our shadow International Development Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , have all be out in the region in the last three month . the humanitarian agony of the Palestinians in Gaza be now extreme . parent be starve , child be drink dirty water and there be even report of amputation be carry out without anaesthetic . More aid have to get to Palestinians now . surely Britain can do more . there have be just four RAF aid flight and one Navy shipment in nearly four month . we get 100 tonne of aid to Turkey in the first 10 day after the earthquake last year . in answer to parliamentary question , the Armed Forces Minister have tell I recently that the RAF and the Navy stand by ready to do more , but the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have not ask it to do so . what be go on ? there should be a steady stream of aid from Britain . our aid effort must be accelerate . for long - term peace , there have to be a political process , and one that have the capacity , conviction and commitment to turn the rhetoric around two state live side - by - side in peace into reality . many across this House , like all in the Labour party present , will have find the israeli Prime Minister ' s recent rejection of the two - state settlement utterly unacceptable and wrong . palestinian statehood be the inalienable right of the palestinian people . it be the only long - term hope for peace and stability , and for normalisation for both Israelis and Palestinians . if elect to form the Government , Labour will lead a new push for peace , work with international ally , in the confidence that , as the Prime Minister say to this House yesterday , we in this country and we in this House be " united in support of a two - state solution . " — [ Official Report , 23 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 152 . ] I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . while much of this debate will rightly focus on the rationale , execution and objective of the recent airstrike against Houthi rebel military infrastructure , I want to begin with some comment on who the Houthis really be . I have be deeply disturb by comment in our national conversation paint they somehow as a progressive movement , as freedom fighter or as some legitimate representative body of the yemeni people . that be so disturbing not only because people be not take the time to educate themselves , but because the Houthis do not deny who they be . it be out there for all to see . their rallying cry and flag be quite explicit : " death to America , Death to Israel , a curse upon the Jews " . these be the word that this group put on their flag . that be their rallying cry , and every action the Houthis take be with that in mind , with hatred in their heart . yet we see people , often well - mean people — it be concern that even people in this House have make such suggestion — suggest that Yemen have freedom fighter on its shore , and that somehow because Yemen , they claim , be a british colony , the Houthis should be see as anti - colonial freedom fighter . unlike southern Yemen , North Yemen be never a british colony . after the collapse of the Ottoman empire , North Yemen be rule by the Imamate , a theocratic polity lead by the religious leader of the Zaydi Shia . the Houthis offer no vision for Yemen ' s future . they seek a return to the past , free from ideal such as equality , woman ' s right and democracy . what inspiration they draw from the modern world come from the Ayatollah and the islamic revolutionary movement of Iran . we can trace their violent rise to what be initially a moment of hope for Yemen . we all remember the arab spring back in 2011 , when Yemenis rise up together and topple the dictatorship . employ the Ayatollah ' s handbook , the Houthis initially pledge themselves to co - operation and build a new Yemen , send delegate to the national dialogue conference and build a deliberate fa ç ade , when they be actually work to reject the future that young Yemenis dream of . arm by Iran , the Houthis block the 2014 referendum on the introduction of a new democratic constitution , and begin a military campaign of conquest and repression . it be easy for we to pass judgment from afar , but the people of Yemen be the witness of their crime . let I share briefly with the House the story of Baraa Shiban , a yemeni democracy and human right activist who sit on the yemeni national dialogue conference and see first hand how the Houthi use deception and oppression to secure their powerbase . baraa have since claim refuge in the UK , and now work on the cause of Yemen as a fellow at the Royal United Services Institute . he share with I that , after the Houthi coup in 2014 , they ban all political party , close all medium outlet and suppress Yemen ' s fledgle civil society , which be just begin to bud . they reject all call for election , and instead choose to govern through fear and intimidation . baraa be an eyewitness to the Houthi method of conquest from 2014 . he see two small rural village refuse to surrender to the so - call rebel . in response , they force all the resident to watch as they summarily blow up all the house in front of they . he observe as they kidnap and murder the family of Akram Al - Zurqa , a community leader in his province , before film themselves blow up those family for vile propaganda purpose . the brutality of the Houthi leadership have be recognise by our Government , and UN security resolution have be put in place against leader Sultan Zabin for the rape and torture of politically active woman . let that sink in , Mr Deputy Speaker : woman who choose to have a voice in Yemen will be torture . the head of the Houthi security service arbitrarily detain they and rape they for speak their mind . not content with merely brutalise village and woman , the Houthis detain two of Baraa ' s friend from the arab spring protest , young journalist Abdullah and Yousif . they lock they in a weapon depot , know full well that it would be bomb by the Saudi - lead coalition to oppose the Houthis , and they leave they there to die . that be a clear breach of international law , as be the industrialise taking of child and force they to be soldier . the UN estimate that , in just one year between 2020 and 2021 , 2 , 000 child be kill after have be force to be soldier for the Houthis . tragically , the Houthis also expel Yemen ' s 3 , 500 - year - old jewish community from their homeland , and banish the last jewish family back in March 2021 . yet now they say that they be act in defence of Gaza . now they say they have always care about the palestinian cause , despite have hate Israel — yes — but do nothing in the interest of the people of Palestine . this conflict be merely an attempt to distract from their own brutal regime at home and gain clout because , let we be clear , among terrorist there be a pecking order , and they be fight for who be the big man on the block . the Houthis think this be their chance . my hon . friend be make some very important point . it be worth mention that one of the other thing that the Houthis have do be deliberately block humanitarian aid come into the port , to starve the population . they might draw a parallel with the terrible situation in Gaza , but their action show that they do not believe that at all . it be no surprise that my right hon . friend make an important point . whether it be block aid , force child to act as soldier or rape and torture woman , the Houthis have no interest in support anything but their own power . they have consistently lie to the people of Yemen , and we can not allow they to act again . I urge anyone in this country who be suggest in any way that the Houthis be act in the interest of the Palestinians please to take the time to look at thing . if they will not , they should at least look in the mirror . move on , I want to look at why we be absolutely right to take this action . these strike be a strategic necessity . article 51 of the UN charter be absolute on the legal right to self - defence for maritime freedom . in the day lead up to the airstrike , we see the UN Security Council come together and agree that action be need . there be a motion call for an immediate end to Houthi attack on shipping . lead up to the strike , there be 26 attack in those water . that might not have be much report in the medium here , but it be elsewhere . our Royal Navy have have to defend itself against the bad attack against our ship for decade , and the US be have to deploy Tomahawk missile to protect itself . that be almost unheard of for a long time . we all hear the argument from the Defence Secretary . we all know full well that almost 30 % of all shipping container pass through those water , and 90 % of ship be have to avoid the area . I want briefly to look at the Houthi military capability , because there be a view hold , particularly among some young people , thank to a very unhelpful tiktok account . the House know my view on TikTok , and it be unsurprise that it be help to spread unhelpful narrative . on this account , a young man seem to be bob around on the water outside Yemen — he could be the star of a movie , I admit — suggest that the Houthis be work in the interest of Palestinians . the Houthis be incredibly well armed , beyond what many people think . they have iranian support , and the Iranians have provide rocket and drone , but they also have their own domestic capability . we have to remember that the former dictator of Yemen defect to the Houthi cause , and he bring with he ballistic and cruise missile . those be now be use against the Royal Navy , the US and ally . the Houthis have one F - 5 jet . some may say that it be only one jet , but it be attack the Royal Navy ; we have see they use these weapon against we . they have helicopter pilot . they have so much more domestic capacity beyond what they be be give by the Iranians . will the Defence Secretary at some point update the House on what assessment we have not just of how we strangle iranian donation of equipment to the Houthis , but of how much more equipment the Houthis have hide ? we know they have bury it underground , and we also know that they take a great deal when they take control . we need to tackle how we strangle the supply of equipment from Iran . move on to strategic concern , I have already ask the Defence Secretary how we assess the point to which we need to degrade Houthi capability so that they change their intent . this be a deterrence mission ; it be a mission to put deterrence back in place . how far down the process of attrition be we ? how do we ensure that we do not become the air force of the yemeni government ? how do we ensure that we have a point to which we be operate , rather than just continue to try until we see the Houthis change direction ? I be also concerned because Yemen be still in a state of civil war . although the Houthis control the majority of the population , they control only about 40 % of the territory . meanwhile , we have al - Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and Daesh , both operate in Yemen . my understanding be that there may be some sort of informal relationship between AQAP and the Houthis , because AQAP have be able to move equipment and mat é riel across the country to where it have its basis . however , as I touch on , terrorist have a pecking order , and they like to be the big man on the street . I be concerned that we will see these two group step up their operation and capitalise on what they see as a compete terrorist group be under attack . how do we make sure that we be act now so that other terrorist group be not capitalise on those attack ? my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) rightly raise his concern about Iraq . that be the first question I ask the Foreign Secretary when he ring I to talk about the airstrike . I be deeply concerned by our significant footprint in Iraq , not least because over the past few month we have see increase attack on our asset by Shi ' a militia beholden to the iranian regime . we have also see the irgc commit an airstrike in Erbil , and that be concern but an opportunity . for the irgc to have take responsibility for such an airstrike be a step change ; we have not see it do that in the past . that give more credence to what we will hear from my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) about the need to proscribe the irgc , and it also fundamentally change how we can talk about the irgc and its operation . what be the Government ' s assessment of how the Red sea situation be likely to escalate , particularly in Iraq ? how be we work to protect our asset ? I will touch briefly on Syria . many colleague will know that , when the vote come to Parliament , the decision not to intervene militarily in Syria be one of the drive reason for my join this place . I still believe that a great mistake be make on that day . Syria have become — forgive I if this sound flippant — the Amazon warehouse for terrorist . whether it be narcotic , weapon , people , Shi ' a militia or traffic — you name it — all that be take place in Syria . what be we do to reduce the risk emanate from Syria to our asset and interest on the ground ? I turn to iranian proxy . the Houthis be only one of Iran ' s proxy and ally . as I say early , different proxy have different relationship . I believe the Houthis to be more of a disobedient ally than a direct proxy , because the command and control be not as significant as it be with Hezbollah . we have Hamas , Hezbollah , iraqi Shi ' a militia and the Assad regime in Syria . what work be we do to ensure that we have a clear assessment of the differ relationship between different proxy and ally with Iran ? some will be receive just intelligence . some will be receive mat é riel . with some , there will be direct command and control . some will feel great loyalty to other . we need to assess the extent to which Iran will conduct further conflict and chaos to defend each of those proxy . for example , I suspect that Hezbollah be far more happy to wage full - on warfare in defence of the cleric in Iran than the Houthis would be . how do we ensure that we get there ? I have severe concern about Hezbollah ' s future action . Nasrallah have so far decide to stay out of the action , but the reality be that that could change in a moment . again , this go back to who want to be see as the good terrorist on the block , and Nasrallah be deeply ideologically tie to the Ayatollahs — more so than any other . while in the past Hezbollah have act almost as a trip wire to protect Iran ' s nuclear capability , now , unfortunately , while we may not see significant restraint , it have be show significant restraint , give its capability . I be concerned about what we may see go forward . the hon . Lady be outline the scale of the challenge and the threat we face , and not just in part of the middle east but in Africa and , as we know , Europe as well . do that not bring home the responsibility we have to ensure that we have a strategic assessment of how we react to all of those threat , not just for those of we on these island but for our partner as well ? the threat we face today be perhaps great than at any time since the second world war . I thank the right hon . member — my friend — who be always generous in his thought and contribution to such debate . I agree entirely . that take I to my fundamental point : this may be a debate on the Red sea , but we be really talk about Iran . my assessment — colleague may differ — be that Iran be willing to do everything but reach outright warfare . it will industrialise sub - threshold conflict and seek chaos wherever it can . my worry be that its current appetite — where it have set its threshold just below outright warfare — be too high . the message that we need to hear go out from our ally to the Iranians — I be pleased to see the Foreign Secretary meet the Iranians to deliver this message — be that that threshold be too high and they must pull back . that must be our strategic priority . I hope that the Government will bring people together . I be look at put together a half - day workshop for all mp , at which we can look at what the policy solution might be for tackle Iran , because all road lead to Iran . my worry be that we be compartmentalise our response to Iran . it have nuclear ambition and proxy , and it have give Russia the drone it need . I believe that the relationship between Iran and Russia have become strategic ; it have fully reverse from what we see over the past two decade . we be see hostage - taking , assassination , transnational repression and femicide at home . we must stop treat those individual issue as if they can somehow be draw away from each other and recognise that we need a strategic approach , work with our ally for all of they . at the moment , we see individual escalation in each of those area and do not respond comprehensively . we see Iran massively increase its drone production and give they all to Russia , but we do not see a significant response . we see Iran take more and more hostage , but we do not see a significant response . in isolation , all these thing look like a small gradual ratcheting , but when we put they together , the situation be utterly untenable . I hesitate to talk too much about IRGC proscription — I feel I would be steal other colleague ' sandwich , so I will leave it with they — but I think the record be well know in this House as to the position . I acknowledge that it be not a straightforward decision . yes , Iran will see it as an act of war . yes , we will likely have to close our embassy on the ground . however , we need to take action against the irgc . only this week we see on the BBC a video of sanctioned irgc general hold recruitment zoom with british national student organisation . this be the same organisation that MI5 have to warn be conduct assassination on our soil . and while I be here , I repeat my call for the creation of a special envoy or special Prime Minister ' s lead for those who be arbitrarily detain , because we need someone who can focus on that throughout the piece . I want to touch briefly on Iran at home , because I believe we be deal with the most brittle Iran that we have have for a long time . the way Iran rule be essentially a protection racket and people have start to see through that . it be splinter , but it be too early to see the actor for change who will escalate the situation . look briefly to the diplomatic effort , there have be too much focus on the E3 plus US . we need an Arab - lead solution . we need to bring our arab partner into the fold far more . there be an anxiety that the west be not a long - term strategic partner ; that we will conduct this isolated activity , which be absolutely right , but not stay and be commit long term . so , how do we demonstrate a commitment to build a broad coalition that can meaningfully push back against iranian influence in the region to protect we not just there , but at home ? that lead I to the threat to the UK from Iran . I be gravely concerned that we be not yet take it seriously enough . yes , we have now see the islamic centre close , under a review by the Charity Commission . yes , I manage to get its education centre in west London to no long be accredit , but we be not do enough to tackle transnational repression in the UK . these strike be both legal and proportionate , and a response to hugely damaging attack by Houthi rebel on the rule of law and global commerce . a failure to act would result in global economic hardship , huge damage to the british economy , a resurgence in inflation and the risk of a successful Houthi attack on a Royal Navy or british maritime vessel . this be about re - establish deterrence , but it be also about send a message to Taiwan and the People ' s Republic of China . if we think that what we have see over the past few week be concern for global trade , it be absolutely nothing compare to what we could see . I reiterate that these attack have absolutely nothing to do with Gaza . we must reject that false narrative , which be design solely to further the Houthis along their blood - soak road to power in Yemen , and the Ayatollah ' s dream of regional domination . what unite the Houthis and the iranian regime be their willingness to sacrifice innocent people in their pursuit of power and their readiness to inflict unthinkable violence on anyone who oppose they . I ask the Government to avoid the mistake of the past and to think long term and strategically about how we go from here . we all want to see a two - state solution and a palestinian state . what we need now be an international Palestine contact group and to launch track 2 negotiation , bring together civil society , woman and academic . I also urge all colleague — those of we who would quickly condemn anyone who deny Israel the right to statehood — to also condemn those who deny the Palestinians the right to their own state . a true friend seek to end the cycle of war , not add more fuel to the fire . Iran and the Houthis be no friend of the palestinian people . I ask Baraa Shiban , the yemeni democracy activist , to summarise what the Houthis have do to his country . this be what he say : " the Houthis run a network of militia that terrorise the yemeni people for more than a decade and their atrocity be ignore by the international community . the Houthis film themselves blow up our house and those of their opponent , and their top leader have be sanction by the UK , rightly , for use sexual violence against woman activist . the House of Commons should call for they to be hold accountable , and recognise the plight of the yemeni people . " I hope we will not have to see many more strike in the region , but I suspect that this be not the end of they . the Defence Secretary will continue to have my full support , because this be right and this be about bring back deterrence . it be always good to follow the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , and I actually agree with quite a lot of what they have to say — I might go into that in a bit more detail in the next few minute . it seem strange to be have a general debate of this kind on a Wednesday afternoon in Government time . as the shadow Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , suggest , a general debate on defence and security have morph into a debate on the situation in the Red sea — a more current and certainly more substantive topic , but one that will , I have to say , allow I to make the same point that I be go to make in a general debate , albeit within the frame of what I hope I be wrong in thinking be look increasingly like some type of long - term commitment . those of we who speak about defence on a regular basis — I see some familiar face here today — can probably finish each other ' s speech by now , as member will probably have see on the odd occasion . whether we be colleague on the Defence Committee — and I see that the hon . member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) be present — or ordinary member who be interested in the subject , we tend to be a very dedicated bunch . while I certainly do not agree with everything that everyone have to say , I certainly always learn a lot from the contribution of member such as my friend the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , who be also present , and indeed the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , who have leave the Chamber . it be safe to say that when it come to debate such as this feature as the last item on a Wednesday , Members usually have to care to take the time to participate . that be why it be so frustrating , from my perspective , that time and again the Government ' s rhetoric in relation to our defence and security , the current situation be a case in point , so rarely match the action take — again , from my perspective — and why I sometimes wonder , if his Majesty ' s government pay so little heed to the contribution of those on their side of the house , who exactly they be listen to . before I explore that much far , and perhaps add to what be say by the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , let I state the obvious : the Houthi movement be an obscurantist , antisemitic and theocratic death cult that have violate human right and international law every step of the way . not only do the Houthis ' current strategy continue these violation of international law , but they seek to use the suffering of the palestinian people in a way that can not be justify . however , in my view — this be the point that may distinguish my remark from not just those of the Government but those of the shadow Defence Secretary — the fact that current event in Palestine be not the cause of the Houthi attack on shipping do not mean that they be not symptom of the same phenomenon : namely , western indifference to the region , follow by period of intense military involvement , and little effort make to address long - term issue . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will , briefly , but I want to move on quickly . I just want to probe the hon . Gentleman slightly on his comment about the west not be involve in the region until something crop up . it be the Royal Navy , and other navy , that be protect shipping from somalian pirate , and it be the Royal Navy that have basis in Bahrain to support ship travel through the strait of Hormuz . the west be involve in the region , and although that may be highlight more now , I want the hon . Gentleman to clarify his comment : he be presumably not suggest that we have not be involve in the region until now . the right hon . Gentleman make an interesting point . perhaps he should refer to what be say by his hon . friend the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee about the diplomatic effort . I think that her point about Arab - lead initiative be well make . perhaps the Government should listen to that as a future intention . I think that be more to the point than engage in military action , which have be ongoing for some time . my SNP colleague and I give the first round of strike against the Houthi target qualified support early this month , and we do so again in respect of the late strike , but as we begin to slide towards what seem almost like an inevitable long - term commitment , it can not be say often enough that the " what " , the " how ' " and the " why " of UK grand strategy be , at least from my perspective , dangerously out of sync . let we start with last week ' s keynote announcement from the Defence Secretary , who I see be no long in their place , that " the era of the peace dividend be over and 2024 will mark an inflection point . " on the surface , that be a pretty banal observation , but whether we call it the polycrisis or the age of grey - zone conflict , those of we who come to these debate on a regular basis have be talk about the possibility of this type of thing happen at least since I arrive in 2015 . I be not sure how 2024 will be anywhere near the inflection point that 2014 or 2022 be ; none the less , that be a bold statement from the Secretary of State . it be important to say that he also back it up with the announcement of a £ 405 million investment in so - call drone - kill Sea Viper missile . on the surface , it would seem that the Secretary of State have get his why and his what sort . we just need a how , and that be where I think we begin to run into trouble . for all the high - falutin ' rhetoric from the MOD main building , I be not sure that anyone here really believe we be go to meet the how in the form of an increase in defence spending to meet these new threat , give the disastrous state of the MOD ' s finance , as see in the late National Audit Office report . we be in the middle of the cost of living crisis , as we all know well . inflation seem to be come under control ; it be only bad in the defence sector , and the proliferation of US dollar - dominate contract be not go to make thing easy , especially with a soft pound and the reality that we be now live in one of the poor country in western Europe . any increase in defence spending at this time mean a cut elsewhere in the budget ; that be simply a reality . although there be those , particularly on the Opposition Benches , who be brave enough to say that they would like to make cut elsewhere to do this , I have see absolutely no indication from the government that they intend to do so . I be no economist — hard to believe , I know — but I believe that practitioner of that special art call it a " reveal preference " . an example would be when a potential leadership candidate advocate spend 3 % of gdp , only to quietly drop the commitment when they become Chancellor . all our recent Prime Ministers have make all the right noise when it come to the problem in international security , but none of they , at least from my perspective , have meet that challenge with a significant increase . indeed , I think we can all agree that if that redoubtable and dog former Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) — I let he know that I be go to mention he in the debate — be only able to secure an increase to 2 . 5 % , and even then only by the end of the decade , I do not think anyone be expect his successor to be any more successful . I should point out — I say this as something of a sceptic about increase the defence budget or even the value in such arbitrary target — that we judge government base on their record , and this be what this one have . once we start to scratch at the how in the UK strategy , the what and the why also start to come unstuck . let we take the Sea Viper order : what be present as an announcement to counter this new and specific threat have actually be on the table since 2012 , only to be constantly shift to the right because of pressure elsewhere on the budget . rise — I will give way to my right hon . friend . I be grateful , and I regard he as my hon . friend too . before he leave the issue of percentage spend on defence , would he not agree with I that , crude though they be , these be indicator of a national priority ? the trouble be that if we do not spend enough on defence in peacetime , and then a conflict break out — we be now begin to hear talk of have to be prepare for major conflict in the next decade or two — we will be spend vastly more than 3 % or 4 % on defence . so how much well be it to spend a bit more in peacetime to prevent the conflict , and how much well than that be it that America should realise that invest in Ukraine ' s effort be also help to raise the deterrence threshold ? I both agree and disagree . have the Ministry make sustained investment in capability , we might not have find ourselves in this situation . the right hon . Gentleman be welcome to stay for my Adjournment debate on nuclear infrastructure , in which we might go into the number crunch in far more detail — he may try to pass on that . far from be a simple drone killer , Sea Viper be a sophisticated ballistic missile defence system that have be in development since the 1980 . each Aster 30 missile cost £ 2 million a pop . whoever in the main building think it be a good idea to call it a drone killer evidently have not do the cost - benefit analysis on take out mass - produce chinese drone , cost £ 100 , with a £ 2 million missile . that be before we even get to the platform that deliver the capability . the Minister might be able to correct I , but the MOD be now officially refuse to publicly disclose the size of its escort fleet , which the Houthis probably already know — maybe it be in one of the TikToks that the hon . member for Rutland and Melton mention . that refusal get a bit of play last week , although we should consider the why of it all . if we can all agree that we be live in a world of increasingly complicated and interlinked threat , why be the Red sea important to the UK ? I consult two principal document publish since I become an MP — the 2015 strategic defence and security review and the 2021 integrated review — but , alas , there be no mention of the Red sea . Yemen be give a single cursory mention in each , and both in the context of other regional conflict . the Government ' s defence be that both document be write before the ever give accident remind we that the Suez canal and the Red sea be an important bottleneck for global trade . ultimately , neither document , one pre - Brexit and one post - Brexit , tell a compelling story about UK engagement in that part of the world , which make it hard for I , and certainly for the public , to see why sustained engagement , if it happen , be in our long - term interest . do not get I wrong : even as a commit north Atlanticist who believe that the primary commitment of Scotland and the UK should be to our northern european neighbourhood , I be open to be convince . but the mood music throughout that time be on global Britain , without elucidate what that actually mean . do not get I start on the Indo - Pacific tilt either . the integrated review make the incredible assertion that the UK wish to be the european state " with the broad and most integrated presence in the Indo - Pacific " . that claim receive very little interrogation at the time . again , as a commit north Atlanticist , I be perhaps never go to be on board with the idea of an Indo - Pacific tilt , but the more I try to find out about it , the less convinced I become . the Indo - Pacific be a big place and be home to two of the three large ocean in the world and three of the five large state . any tilt towards it would surely require some sort of prioritisation , but we have never hear any talk of this . the Red sea region could have be part of that , secure the freedom of maritime trade from the Indo - Pacific and bring in european partner with a presence in the region , along with other , but there be a complete failure to communicate any of that to member , never mind to the general public . forgive those of we who be sceptical about the what . with the strike against Houthi target , we can clearly see the how . the Royal Navy , which be do a commendable job , be in its poor and most diminished state for many year . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford allude to that , and it be a consequence not only of budgetary pressure but of a complete failure of this and previous government to make the case for the why , be that in the Red sea or the North sea . instead , we have a manpower and retention crisis cause by over a decade of wage stagnation ; the ongoing possibility that the two remain landing platform dock will be mothball , call into question the long - term viability of the Royal Marines ; and the admission in November that the entire fleet of SSNs be alongside at the same time . yet if we be go by the MOD ' s spin on thing , all be well , because we can still field two carrier strike group , even though everyone know we would never have the manpower to do so at the same time ; the AUKUS deal will allow Astute - class boat to operate in the Pacific ocean , even though , as we have hear , they sometimes can not even get to the North sea ; and — who can forget , from last week — we now have a space laser , or at least we will in 10 or 15 year ' time . so let I end with a general observation : when it come to UK grand strategy in the Red sea , denial be not just a river you end up in if you take a wrong turn on your way there . rise — order . as member can see , 14 member wish to participate in this debate . although I be try not to put a time limit on people ' s speech , if they could show some self - discipline , we will get everybody in with a decent amount of time . I call Sir Alec Shelbrooke . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have to say that I be disappoint by the approach the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) take to the operation we have have to carry out in the Red sea to protect international shipping . he make the point , perhaps reasonably , that budget and the finance of this country be under great pressure and that there have be a cost of living crisis . that crisis have occur through instability around the world , whether we be talk about supply chain during the pandemic , Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine or , now , the threat to shipping at the key point of entry to the Red sea . those all have a fundamental impact at home , so investment in defence be not something that just take money out of the pot that the Government need to spend : it help to build the security that our constituent need . through history , people have too often look at distant land and say , " that ' s get nothing to do with I . " that view never be true , but today it could never be less true . we see that when we look at exactly how global supply chain end up with thing in our supermarket and when we look at the fuel crisis . of course , it be not just the increase in the cost of shipping that will add to inflationary pressure , but the fact that modern industry work to a just - in - time system . Widget A may now take three week to get to widget b , which may only take a week to get somewhere . that will cause huge back - up production problem in the factory and production plant that move thing on to the system . so the time constraint of have to go around the cape to deliver the good that be need that have suddenly be hoist upon global shipping will end up have a direct impact on our constituent once more . therefore , it be important that we invest far , certainly in the Royal Navy . I take issue with people in this House who want to do a disservice to the Royal Navy , which be one of the most advanced and fine navy in the world . we have replace the vast majority of our capital equipment in this century alone . the technical ability of our Royal Navy outdo that of a great number of country , include in respect of many of the capability produce in the United States . the Type 45 destroyer be a visionary destroyer and allow war to be fight in a way that be not feasible before . with the introduction of the Type 26s come forward , the Type 31 , and the fact that we have renew our hunter - killer submarine and be renew Dreadnought , we have huge infrastructure . that be in addition to aircraft carrier , which have always have an important strategic aspect , especially when we be try to operate alongside the ally . comment have be make about it always be the USA pick up the burden , but Britain punch above its weight by have that capability . where I do think we run into a problem with the MOD and its funding be that , because of rule set by previous Chancellors and carry on as to the difference between borrow for capital and not spend on revenue , and how that have work out , it have always be easy to produce a capital spreadsheet in order to produce more ship , but no one ever look at how much revenue we be go to need to keep those ship run , to keep they service and to crew they . that , in itself , need to be address . be under no illusion : the situation in the Red sea speak to the wide issue of the importance of maritime security , which affect the entire world . although we be part of NATO and we can draw on the support of many ally from around the world to help police the situation in the Red sea , demand for such support will only increase , especially as the high north be use more frequently as a passage for trade during the summer month , in which China be already show great interest . the idea that an arc that seem to emanate from or be influence by Iran be form around the disruption of maritime trade can not be dismiss . as have already be mention , Iran have an influence on the Houthis in Yemen and on Hezbollah , and we know it be arm Russia . the Russians be do everything they can to stop grain get out of Ukraine . the blocking of the Red sea will impede the ability of vital food stock to get to many area of the world , lead to starvation , not least in country such as Lebanon , which be unstable as it stand and have a huge economic crisis . Lebanon have not recover from the explosion at its grain silos and rely heavily on grain from Ukraine , but it would suit Iran ' s overall objective in the region to cause instability in another country neighbour Israel . as my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) make clear , we be not willing to tolerate these tiny activity in which Iran take part . however , we have to be aware that we always look at the issue with western eye . when those country look east , they have ally — Russia have be able to trade with many county to its south and east — and western sanction only go so far . I be confident colleague want to speak in the debate and far develop these idea . the situation in the Red sea be another flash - point warning that we must invest far in our maritime capability so that we can secure and keep open trade route that affect the entire world . the investment that we make now have a direct impact on our constituent and their ability to deal with the cost of living crisis , because be not only those who be thousand of mile away who be affect by the situation ; it have an impact on even the corner shop in our village . the freedom of navigation , maritime security and uphold international law be fundamental principle , and this country , along with international partner , have a duty to uphold they . we have hear about the economic consequence . the disruption cause by what be happen in the Red sea affect peace not only there but throughout the region . as the Defence Secretary and the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee say , there be complex and historical issue that will need political solution in due course . these be long - stand dispute with complex origin , whether that be the interference of colonial power in the past ; communal , religious or ethnic rivalry ; or the struggle for oil and other natural resource . I do not claim to be an expert , but there be certainly parallel with what happen in the 1960 , with the North Yemen civil war and the Aden emergency — UK force occupy Aden from 1839 to 1967 — and many of the issue have ancient origin . however , I add a note of caution . I know exactly what have be say by many speaker so far in relation to conflate the action of the Houthis in Yemen with what be happen in Israel and Palestine . nobody should be so naive as to think that the motive of the Houthis be humanitarian or unselfish . as the Defence Secretary say , the Houthis be entirely opportunistic in what they be do , but that be not necessarily the way that it be see on the arab street , or by our constituent , so we must address that issue head on . the priority give to deal with attack on shipping in the Red sea should also , as many of my constituent say to I , be give to deal with attack on human life in Gaza and wherever else , include in Yemen . let we look at what the Prime Minister say at Prime Minister ' s question . if I understand he correctly , he set a number of test that have to be meet before there could be a ceasefire in Gaza : all hostage should be release — presumably he mean israeli and palestinian hostage ; Hamas should disarm and disappear from Gaza , so as not to be in a position to threaten Israel or anyone else ; and the Palestinian Authority should take over the role of governance there . nobody would be more pleased than I if those three criterion be meet . indeed , I be sure that hostage release and swap will be part of any ceasefire , even a temporary one , but how realistic be it to expect that Hamas will disappear overnight or that , to use their own phraseology , the Palestinian Authority will ride into Gaza on the back of israeli tank ? I do not believe that that be a realistic assessment of where we need to go before a ceasefire occur . today , the Prime Minister be ask by the leader of the Scottish National party — this question be often ask of the Government — whether he believe that war crime have be commit in Gaza . that be not a difficult question . yes , it be absolutely true that there be restriction on journalist and international observer go into Gaza , but there be enough come out of Gaza to see that it be not an exhaustive list . none the less , many lead international jurist have see deprivation of life , collective punishment , arbitrary detention , denial of basic service include healthcare , force displacement and ethnic cleansing . simply to reply , as any Government spokesman do , that Israel should comply with international humanitarian law , be not sufficient . the question be : be Israel comply in that way ? today , I note that a 200 - page opinion piece , publish by lawyer for palestinian Human Rights but author by independent jurist , find that in Gaza , persecution — a crime against humanity — have be commit more intensely since 7 October , but that it go back to 2007 , when the siege of Gaza begin . if the Government ' s position be to be credible they must address those event . what be happen in Gaza be extraordinary : 1 % of the population — 25 , 000 people — have be kill in three month under the most horrific circumstance . we hear the shadow Defence Secretary describe that in his opening remark , and there be strong parallel with what be go on . on international law , let we face it : international humanitarian law be the last resort , when other thing have go wrong . perhaps the side that we politician can take be that of morality . what be the right thing to do ? what be the humanitarian thing to do ? what should we do about human misery ? that be why the immediate bilateral ceasefire be so important . there be a choice . the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court will be look at the war crime , and it be right to let the court do their job , but the Government could also have make a moral judgment . do the hon . Gentleman agree ? I think I always agree with the hon . member on this issue , if not on other . she have clear personal knowledge of it , and be under particular strain because her extended family be in Gaza . I pay tribute to her ability to maintain the objectivity that she have just show in her comment . we have just have a debate in Westminster Hall on human right , and Gaza come up . during the debate it be reveal that the Foreign Office have seek evidence from its legal adviser on the legality of action that have be take by Israel , go back to 10 November . we do not receive a satisfactory answer from the Minister respond to that debate , but should the Government not publish that advice ? I also understand that since the new Foreign Secretary arrive he have ask for a review of that legal advice . I also agree with my hon . friend . the death that continue to occur daily in Gaza have so far be mostly the result of military action , but we have reach a point where the number of death through privation and disease be overtake they . there be a strong parallel with what happen in Yemen , where about 150 , 000 people — mainly civilian — have be kill over the course of the civil war that begin in 2014 . at least another 200 , 000 have die through disease and privation as a consequence of the civil war , and we be at that tipping point in Gaza . yes , those be high number , but they be from a much long period . many of the same argument apply , and I do not think any Member present would not wish to see an end to the suffering in both Yemen and Gaza . we need a ceasefire and an end to hostility , and pressure from the UK alongside partner could play a much big role in achieve that . secondly , we need aid and reconstruction , but that require a more permanent peace , because many donor , include EU and UK donor , who have contribute to the reconstruction in the past have see the money waste as a result of further military action . well governance be also need , and support for civil society . one of the most cynical thing that have happen since the terrible , tragic event of 7 October — we all feel for the people of Israel for what they suffer then — be that the response have be not just to go after Hamas but to destroy civilian neighbourhood and civil society . destroy law court , destroy the Parliament , and destroy the record office appear design to make Gaza ungovernable . that have to be address as well . one could make exactly the same point in relation to Yemen . these be two of the great catastrophe go on in the world . there may be point where we do not want to link the two , but there be clear point where we do . what put Gaza in a different category than Yemen , be that we be deal with occupation . follow his statement yesterday , I ask the Prime Minister when the UK will recognise a palestinian state . unsurprisingly , he give an answer that will be familiar to everyone present , and say that " we will recognise a palestinian state at a time that well serve the peace process . " — [ Official Report , 23 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 166 . ] that time be now , or nearly now , because it be impossible to have serious negotiation towards peace unless they be between two sovereign state , notwithstanding condition in Gaza and , increasingly , condition in the west bank as well . let we not pretend that the recognition of a palestinian state would put Israel and Palestine on an even keel , but without it as a precondition of the negotiation , they simply will not get off the ground . I hope we see that change in position . there be strong support not just for our military , but for the diplomatic initiative that the UK be do in the middle east . order . I have give the hon . member a lot of latitude , as he be focus on one aspect , but the debate be on the situation in the Red sea . if he could direct his attention towards that subject , I would be extremely grateful . I should have take your advice , Mr Deputy Speaker , rather than the advice of the shadow Defence Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , at the beginning of the debate . you interrupt I at an appropriate point , because I be conclude my remark . there be strong support from all side , but we need to go far . Britain ' s historical responsibility in the region require we to make that additional diplomatic effort . I congratulate the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) on a very wide - range speech , albeit somewhat remote from the situation in the Red sea , as you correctly point out , Mr Deputy Speaker . I also congratulate my right hon . friend the new Defence Secretary , who be not in his place , and the shadow Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , who both speak with great care , diplomacy and sense . they fulfil precisely what this place ought to be about , namely his Majesty ' s government lay out their view and the loyal opposition scrutinise what they have do . before I say anything else , I make it clear that I strongly support the strike in the Red sea and all the remark make by my hon . friend , most of whom be much well inform on these matter than I . I strongly support the strike , the way they be carry out and the reasoning for they . if I may , I will take a slightly different approach — rather than simply the diplomatic , foreign affair and military approach — and look at the way in which the strike be order . particularly after the first strike , a great many people , include a number of people in this House — perhaps we will hear from the liberal Democrats later on — be of the view that it be quite wrong . " the House should be recall , " they say . " we should have a vote in this House on whether the strike be justify , " it be say . " it be quite wrong that Parliament should not have the opportunity to express our view on the most important matter face we all , namely warfare , " it be say . I be glad to say that the Government resist those call , and the way in which the strike be order seem — I will come back to precisely why in a moment — to be absolutely right . I have be talk about this subject for some time . indeed , I write a book about it , which , if I may say so , be available in all good bookshop . when I express the view in a debate some 15 or 20 year ago that it be wrong that the House of Commons should vote on go to war , it be greet widely with scorn . everybody say , " that ' s absurd ; that ' s a ridiculous thing to say . " we can check Hansard for that . indeed , when Lord Hague write an extensive article on the matter , he say very straightforwardly and simply , " when we go to war , the House of Commons and the House of Lords must decide on it . it must be do by a vote . " I be glad to say that last week the noble Lord Hague go through a damascene conversion . he have change his mind on the matter and now entirely support my view . equally in my view , the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , which write a report on these matter , get it wrong . it say that it think the House of Commons should have a vote before deployment . I take a stringently different view , because there be a large number of very important reason why that should not be the case . first , all pretence of secrecy would of course be destroy . we would have a debate in this place , and the enemy would know precisely what we be plan to do . secondly , we could not take that kind of decision without consult our neighbour . the decision might well be part of a NATO strike or , in this case , a joint UK - US strike . be we ready to ask NATO , the United Nations or the US to wait while we discuss the matter here ? what happen if we vote against it here , but those wherever else vote in favour ? thirdly , we be gallop down a very dangerous road if we ask the Prime Minister to come to this House and share with we the secret intelligence , legal advice and strategic knowledge on which he make these difficult decision , as he would be expose many of our professional supporter to criticism or , indeed , to attack one way or another . it would be quite wrong if he do so . I do not want to know the secret intelligence . I do not want to know the legal advice . I want the right to scrutinise what the Government have do after they have do it . it be also extremely important that warfare should not be politicise . if we vote in this House either to go to war or not to do so , we as mp be take a view of it . we be send people to war while squabble among ourselves about whether the war be right , wrong or indifferent . that seem to I quite wrong from the point of view of the family , particularly of those who be kill , who would then say , " well , one party or the other take a strongly different view from you . " before I come to the final reason for my strong view on this matter , I must point out to the House that , of the 274 war that England have take part in since 1750 , we have vote in this House on only two . only twice in all those year have we vote prior to deployment . the first time be in 2003 , when Tony Blair ask this House to vote on Iraq and whip the Labour party into support the war . the conservative party be also whip ; I be glad to say I rebel against the Whip , but none the less we be whip into support the war , and what a bad decision that be — quite the wrong decision . the second time in all that 300 - year to 400 - year history that we have a vote in this House on go to war be before a potential Syria strike in 2013 , which do not then occur . the House vote against it , and very much of the bloodshed , the corruption and the disaster that we see in Syria to this day come about as a result of those vote . America follow we the next day and equally do not strike against the use of chemical weapon . that be a wrong decision make by this House , as in my view be the Iraq decision of 2003 , and those be the only two occasion when , prior to deployment , we have vote . rise — my right hon . friend disagree with I . I be afraid I do . I agree with my hon . friend ' s main thrust , that there be no doubt that the Prime Minister and the Executive have the right to take initial action and seek support afterwards . have say that , the case of Syria in particular have become a byword for a wrong and terrible decision , because the ghastly Assad remain in power , but the alternative would have be another islamist swamp such as we see in Libya . it be because there be a strong feeling in the House that Syria would have be another Iraq or another Libya that there be such pressure to have a vote . for my part , I think the result be absolutely right . my right hon . friend make an interesting point : he think we should not have have strike against Syria , and therefore he think we should have have a vote on the matter , because the vote go against the strike . however , let we imagine there be some other very important or essential war , in the moment before a general election , with a very small majority on one side or the other . that war would then become political . he might well find under those circumstance that a war that he strongly believe in and want to support be vote down by this House , rather than by the general or the Prime Minister . perhaps both my hon . friend and my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) will agree that , while it can be risky and dangerous to intervene , it can also be risky and dangerous not to intervene . perhaps they would both agree on that point . my right hon . friend make an extremely good point . incidentally , I forget to mention that I very much welcome he to the Front Bench . he be do a good job stand in for the Foreign Secretary . I hope he will take note of the Procedure Committee ' s report this afternoon on how a Secretary of State who be in the House of Lords should or should not be question by this House , and that the Government will accept the Procedure Committee ' s proposal , namely that the Foreign Secretary should be call to the Bar of the House to take question . will my hon . friend give way ? we must not get too far off the subject , but of course . I think I support what my hon . Friend say . of the two time we vote on military action , the first time we be mislead and the second time we be sting by have be mislead , so we go the wrong way . as someone who be quite close to the libyan conflict , as I see it play out with isis in northern Iraq , I think we should have take military action in principle over the use of chemical weapon . by not do so , regardless of the outcome of the syrian war , we weaken the idea of western resolve . I know it can be a bit of a clich é , but if we have a red line and dictator ignore it , we end up in a world of pain . both my hon . friend and my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be seek to involve I in a debate about a matter that happen some 10 or 15 year ago and be well beyond the scope of the debate . my point be not about whether or not strike against Syria be right , wrong or indifferent , but about the fact that we in this House choose not to do so . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , be absolutely right to say that not do something be often as bad as do something . we in this House have a shortage of information — my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) know a lot about these thing , and I be ready to admit that I do not — of briefing , of secret intelligence and of legal advice , but we choose to take that decision . it seem to I that , in the extremely dangerous world that we live in , we will see an awful lot of these decision take in the month and year to come . the way in which matter be handle this time show that the pendulum , which have swing from the divine right of king in the middle age , whereby the King decide on his own , to the time in 2003 and 2013 when we allow this House to vote , albeit not necessarily sensibly , have swing back to precisely where it ought to be — namely , that if this House vote on something , it be , by that mean , diminish . we can not then hold the Government to account ; we can not come back and say , " you , Mr Government , have get that wrong , " because we vote for it . and if we have vote for it , the Secretary of State would surely say , " but you vote for it ! " our whole purpose in this House and this Chamber be to scrutinise what the Government have do , hold they to account and , if necessary , remove they when they do the wrong thing . will my hon . friend give way ? well , I be try to wind up , but yes , of course . my hon . Friend mention the world become a more dangerous place . we have know throughout the history of the NATO alliance that deterrence be one of the good way to keep the peace . that be why we have the continuous at - sea deterrence : nobody know where or when it may be use . to further his argument , if we want to keep the peace , be there not far great deterrence in a decision be take immediately rather than with 24 or 48 hour ' notice ? I be not certain that my right hon . friend , whom , incidentally , I congratulate on his knighthood , have quite grasp the subtlety of the point that I be try to make , which be not so much about the substance of defence but about the way in which we take decision in this House . the point I be make be that if we vote on something , as happen to the Labour party over Iraq in 2003 , it then become extremely difficult to criticise the Government for what they do subsequently . it be right that we should scrutinise the Government , but we should not vote on these matter . we should have huge debate , statement and vote after deployment , but the moment that we allow ourselves to be force into whip vote before deployment , we be , by definition , emasculate this House . it be quite wrong from the point of view of defence and from the point of view of parliamentary scrutiny . we demand the right to scrutinise the Government , and we can do that only if we do not vote on the war . rise — Order . I be get slightly anxious about time . my advice be that colleague stick to a maximum of eight minute . if we can not achieve that , I will have to put on a time limit , but I would rather not . I call Jeff Smith . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — you will be pleased to know that I intend to be brief . originally , I be go to speak about a number of issue , include the situation in Ukraine , but I be grateful to be able to comment briefly on the situation in the Red sea and the region . as my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) indicate from the Front Bench , Labour support , as do I , the targeted and limited strike on the Houthi military target in Yemen . we should be clear about the nature of the attack by the Iranian - back Houthi rebel , which be opportunistic , as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) have just point out . we should reject the Houthi claim that UK and US airstrike on their position be relate to the conflict in Gaza . nevertheless , there be thing that we must continue to say about the situation in Gaza . we watch in horror the attack on 7 October , and have watch in horror the level of suffering and death in Gaza since . we urgently need a ceasefire to end that suffering , we need the release of hostage , and we need urgently to address the big humanitarian crisis in that region in a generation . People be face starvation and thirst , and be without medical assistance . I pay tribute to all the organisation that be carry out humanitarian work in the most difficult condition . I have be get regular update from medical aid for Palestinians , which do great work there give the impossible situation that some of its worker have be put in . of course , the situation be make bad by the fact that Gaza be not somewhere people can get out of . I encourage the Government to keep press the israeli and egyptian authority to open the crossing for aid , but also to allow the people who need to get out to do so . I have raise with the Minister the particular case of a constituent of mine whose wife and baby daughter be on the border at Rafah . we need to keep press for they to be able to get out of that crossing and out of danger . on the specific issue of the Red sea and the strike on Houthi target , the UN Security Council be strong in its condemnation of the attack on shipping by the Houthis , and we join in that condemnation . as my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne say , we can not afford for those attack to continue and go unanswered , and there be a cost to non - intervention . freedom of navigation be an important principle , and there be innocent seafarer from around the world on the commercial ship that pass through that vital route . at this point , I need to declare an interest : I be very proud of my nephew , who be train to be a commercial nautical engineer . he be work for Maersk , one of the company whose ship have be attack , and as any family member from any country would , I want he and worker like he to be protect from terrorist attack if they have to make a journey via the Red sea . innocent commercial shipping worker from around the world be put at risk by the reckless and illegal attack of the Houthis , and those worker need protection , as do our brave Navy personnel . it may well be impossible to completely stop Houthi attack . we know that the Houthis have be harden by the long civil war in Yemen and have be subject to a long history of attack by the Saudi - lead coalition , so they know about be attack , but that do not mean that we should not do what we can to degrade and limit their capacity to carry out attack . those attack can not go unanswered . however , as a number of right hon . and hon . member have point out , we also need a diplomatic strategy to stop the risk of escalation , make it clear that these be target and proportional attack that do not aim to escalate a wide conflict — that be something we need to avoid at all cost . yes , we support target action to protect freedom of navigation and to protect civilian and our naval personnel , but we need a political process towards a sustainable peace and security in Yemen , in Gaza , and in the region . I encourage the Government to continue to work for that political solution . I begin by pay tribute to all of our armed force personnel who have be involve in action in the Red sea . they always rise to any challenge ask of they with professionalism and courage , and be a great example of the fact that our armed force be so much more than the hardware we invest in . I accept the point that the Secretary of State for Defence make at the outset of the debate — there be no direct link between the conflict in Gaza and the Houthi attack on shipping in the Red sea — but we would be wrong not to accept that there be interconnectivity between the tension in different part of the middle east today , and we need to understand the context of those tension . back in 2020 , the Trump Administration broker the Abraham accord between Israel , the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain and then Morocco . it be a great exercise in leadership to bring reconciliation to a part of the world that have see too much conflict for too long . it have result in a big improvement : both economically , in term of business and trade between the country involve , and in people - to - people relationship . for example , around half a million Israelis visit Dubai in the past few year , something that would have be unthinkable just a decade ago . however , there be always one country that do not want the Abraham accord to succeed : Iran . it do not want those accord to succeed because it do not believe in a two - state solution , because it do not believe that Israel should exist . Ayatollah Khamenei have be tremendously consistent in his view about the purity of the islamic revolution , his detestation of the west , and his contempt for the existence of the state of Israel . anyone who be interested should read the book " Reading Khamenei " by Karim Sadjadpour of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace . Iran be never go to want to see peace between the arab state and Israel , because that threaten Iran ' s hegemony — as it see it — over the islamic part of the middle east . the big question be always : what would Saudi Arabia do ? it be a major player in the security of both the Red sea and the Gulf . when I see the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia on Fox News say that every day he believe Saudi Arabia be close to peace and reconciliation with Israel , my first reaction be that Iran would react against it , whether through its proxy : Hamas in Gaza , fund and arm by Iran ; Hezbollah in Lebanon , fund and arm by Iran ; or the Houthis in Yemen , fund and arm by Iran . in fact , it turn out that we now see all three be active , and we need to understand that that " axis of resistance " against the west , as Iran call it , be something it will keep go as long as it possibly can . it will not seek peace ; it will resist peace at all time . in the Red sea , we be absolutely right to say — as many member have do , and I do not want to go over that territory again — that the Houthi threat be a specific one that we must deal with . some 95 % of UK export and import go by sea , and in the whole global trading environment , 15 % of all global trade pass through the Bab al - Mandab strait . as many member have say , not to act would leave international maritime law in tatter , and have no deterrence there whatsoever would risk a bout of global inflation . we see what the disruption from the conflict in Ukraine could do , and the same would be true be there to be permanent disruption in the Red sea . we would have disruption of vital supply chain , include food and the medicine that so many people depend on . so we be right to take action . however , we need to come back to understand the role of Iran in this and other process . we have see Iran develop drone that be send to Russia by Iran Air to oppress the people of Ukraine , yet Iran Air still fly out of Heathrow airport in the United Kingdom . why be it tolerate ? we have see the money move around the global financial system by Iran to fund its proxy , but we still have two iranian bank trade in the City of London within a stone ' s throw of the Bank of England . why be that happen ? as the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , say , we have video of antisemitic speech by IRGC general be investigate by the Charity Commission . the regulator be look at footage of " death to Israel " chant on an islamic charity ' s UK premise . two of the video show talk by IRGC leader about an apocalyptic war on the Jews . again as my hon . Friend say , the IRGC actually take responsibility this week for a military attack on a foreign territory , which be something they have not have the audacity to do before . so I ask again : why be the IRGC not a proscribe organisation in this country ? it be clearly involve in a wide range of activity that be dangerous to Britain ' s national interest and our security . I have never once , when I have raise this issue in the House , be give a clear answer from those on the Front Branch about why we will not ban Iran Air , why we will not stop iranian bank in the City and why we will not proscribe the irgc . I live in a little bit of extra hope that we may get an answer tonight . the answer that the Government have so far give on the irgc be that it be an arm of the state , and it be very difficult to proscribe an arm of the state . I be not say I agree with that answer , but that be the answer give . be there a way around it ? it be an answer , but it be not a very convincing one . I hope we will get a well answer from the Minister of State at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who I know be well capable of give we answer in great detail than that . we face a choice in the Red sea and beyond : we be either go to deal with the political problem we face or , rather than the rosy future that the Abraham accord offer , we can go back to 1971 , with a radicalised generation in the middle east and return to all the problem of hijack , Munich and all the thing we think we have leave behind we . we need to drive a solution . as the Prime Minister say early this week , there must be a commitment to a two - state solution , and it be not acceptable for anyone to put a political block on that . we need security guarantee to be give for Israel and the israeli people , who have a right to live in peace , and for any future palestinian state . that will require an international peace agreement . it will require the United States , Saudi Arabia and other all to be willing to commit to that peace . it will require a new way of look at politic in the region , and it be right that Hamas can not be part of that if there be to be any way forward , and there will need to be massive economic reconstruction in the area . in conclusion , let I say what I have say before in the House : when we look at the whole region , we see that peace be not just the absence of war or conflict , but the freedom from the fear of conflict , oppression or terror . it come with concept of right that have to apply to all people — not just right and dignity , but enforceable right and dignity . only when all the people of the middle east and the wide region have access to all those thing will we have any chance of achieve the peace that be not just part of their security , but part of our security . it be an honour to follow the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) , because I agree so much with what he just say , and in particular with the way he set out how Iran decide to back many different group that will cause chaos . that root cause itself need to be address . although I be half palestinian , we live in Jordan for five year just after King Hussein pass away , and we be in Egypt just after the arab spring , so my link to the region be not just by blood ; we be there . when we talk about the middle east , it sometimes feel as though we be play 3d chess , while spin around most of the time , try to understand who be in , who be out and what be happen . it be fair to say that the region have be poorly lead and poorly serve by its politician for very many decade . arab be proud , intelligent , capable people who have every right to live in dignity and security , as do anyone else . I be sorry to say that there have be element of the debate about Israel and Palestine that seem to forget that . when we talk about peace in the region , we often omit that Palestinians need to be at the heart of it as much as Israelis . we talk about Arab - lead , and yes absolutely — Arab - lead . let I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I go to the Manama dialogue at the invitation of the International Institute for Strategic Studies . when we be there , we hear from the Bahraini Foreign Minister , who make clear the case for why peace and two state be not just in the interest of Israel and Palestine , but be in Bahrain ' s interest as well . it be a regional interest , and the reason for that — this be link to what previous speaker have say — be because this be the big toy that Iran and other mischief maker in the region have to play with , and they have be play with it for their own nefarious end for far too long . they have no real interest in the palestinian people . let I be clear : when I speak to other Palestinians , we know that . we know that they be jump on the bandwagon now . we still talk about the paper tiger of the ' 60 , and lot of arab state will say when it be convenient for they that they will come and ride in our defence . but when at that final moment it come to who back we , the answer be , " well , no one " , and so we rely on ourselves . that be the view of pretty much every Palestinian I know . that say , it do not mean that we do not need help , so this be my plea for help . two state be not just in the interest of Israelis and Palestinians . let I emphasise Israelis as well , because the peace camp in Israel have take an enormous blow . let we remind ourselves that very many peace activist have be take hostage and be disgracefully rape . Hamas be no friend to the palestinian cause . but this war have drive ordinary , peace - love people into the arm of the extreme of the debate , and when we look at the poll — one be do very recently — we see that people be now back Hamas and back Netanyahu , when before they do not . we must reflect on that . why have that happen ? these be the same people as before 7 October . the reason it have happen be because we have allow it to happen . the long this war be wage in the way it have be wage , and in the way that it feel so one - sided , with the humanity at the centre of it not at its heart , by the western world in particular , the more abandon ordinary people feel . and when people feel abandon , that be when the centre ground where the dialogue happen be vacate . my plea to this House continue to be to not forget the palestinian cause . yes , I be here with my palestinian scarf and my blood , but I say that not for I but for regional security . I put it to the Minister that the cause be in Britain ' s security interest , and we can see that for ourselves . when we say that the region be a tinderbox , we do not mean that one thing be causal on another , but that there be multiple flashpoint , and all it take be for one thing to go wrong and we find that they all blow up at the same time . that be why the debate and early vote be important . it be true that the Houthis want this to happen , but that risk of escalation be real . there be a true and legitimate concern that we have to act , and not act be also act . we back what the Government have do , but what happen if thing start to go wrong ? what if that nuclear reaction start to get out of control and we end up in a situation where that tinderbox have be set alight ? the worry I have be that whenever we have question the Prime Minister on how we come off this ledge , we have not have that assurance on what the plan be . we still do not have that plan . on plan , the recognition of the state of Palestine have never be more important . I talk about an immediate bilateral ceasefire to bring the people from the extreme back to the centre and to start to heal some of the wound , but a ceasefire be not the end ; a ceasefire only ever freeze a conflict . if we want to say , " this be the last time " — I sincerely believe that across this House there be broad agreement on that point — we need to get serious about how we bring the two state back to the table , and quickly . we have only to look at what be happen in America and the chance of Trump come back to see that our window of opportunity — that be in term not just of public opinion , which be at its height , but of an America that be willing to be a willing partner — be fast diminishing . we know that the European Union be talk about a conference . we know that the arab state be also talk . my question to the Minister be : who be we talk to ? how quickly do we think we can get this twin track or whatever we want to call it off the ground ? as part of that , I urge he , as I have in previous debate , to recognise Palestine soon rather than later . put my Palestine hat back on for a moment , all we Palestinians want be the power to have what all other country have . we want our own vote at the United Nations . we want to raise our own money to rebuild and to educate our child . it be not the case that we be not capable ; we just do not have the tool . what we want above all be to live in dignity alongside our israeli cousin . it be the scar that we so sadly share that will bind we together . like scar , they be not comfortable , but often when the bone grow back it be strong than before . that be how both people feel . they need to be give the tool as equal partner to be able to resolve this conflict . without a very early , full - fledged recognition of the palestinian state — I argue that should be first , not last in the process — we will never get there . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . she speak wisely on many of the issue , and I suspect the Minister will have listen carefully . I start by thank all our personnel currently operate in the eastern Mediterranean and east of Suez . even in peaceful time it be an area that call for the high professionalism and alertness . when we be face the challenge that we now have , the stress on they be even great . our interest in the area around Yemen predate the Suez canal because of its place in our original sea route to India around the cape . the Aden protectorate , where I be bear , be a major trading base . that have continue , with 15 % of world shipping and 30 % of global container traffic depend on freedom of navigation in the Red sea through the Bab al - Mandab strait . we must be realistic about the Houthis ' motivation in their attack and piracy . the forget civil war in Yemen have be go on since 2013 , with a ceasefire in place for much of the last 15 month , yet Yemen — even more so the Houthis — seem to explode into our consciousness in this country only with the attack on shipping , although it be regularly debate in this place . the ceasefire in Yemen have not be perfect . act of violence have carry on at a low level . the Houthis have gain much from the peace talk , although they have an appalling human right record , use sexual violence against woman and the exploitation of child — the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee speak about that . I be concerned that the entire ceasefire be now jeopardise because of the Houthis ' action and our response . in addition , the Houthis be clear that they see a linkage between their action in the Red sea and the situation in Gaza . I say to they that attack ship will not help the palestinian cause . target strike by the US , the UK and ally will continue to protect shipping . however , the consequence of a prolong series of strike on the yemeni people will be appalling . I can not stress enough the catastrophe that will follow if the Houthis shut out humanitarian aid , if the ceasefire collapse or if navigation around the yemeni coast become impossible . Yemen import 90 % of its food , and 17 million people be already at risk of famine . seventy per cent the yemeni population live in the area that the Houthis currently control , and financing of the UN humanitarian response plan drop from 55 % of requirement in 2022 to 38 % in 2023 — and it have not even be announce for 2024 . Most of Yemen ' s import come through the Hodeidah port , so if the port become inoperable , the consequence will be severe . I urge extreme caution about any move to proscribe Ansar Allah , because there be a risk that the follow humanitarian effort may be destroy . fifty per cent of humanitarian funding come from the United States , and most of that be need in Houthi - control area . the United States have be mindful of that in apply its special designation on the Houthis and , have raise that with the Prime Minister yesterday , I be sure that our Government will be cautious , too . even with a ceasefire in place , the threat have remain to everyone in Yemen because the economy be so badly damage . collapse and insecure society breed radicalism and become threat to global security , so we must keep up our diplomatic effort to save the ceasefire , and we should be cautious about see Iran behind every action that the Houthis take . Iran do not have full control of their action — they very much act independently — although Iran could stop provide intelligence , weapon and finance and work towards de - escalation in the area . the Houthis be an organisation that include many people who defect from the previous yemeni regime , sadly train and arm by the west . the remain of western munition be be use against the coalition support the yemeni Government . the Houthis co - operate with the UN on the safe tanker , which pose a huge pollution threat to the entire Red Sea , and they have be allow humanitarian agency to carry on their work . it be therefore concern that they be now threaten to shut those out agency . equally , we must ensure that any sanction that we impose do not stop humanitarian access . the UK have be a leader in aid , and I be grateful to the Government for their support for the yemeni people . I pay tribute to the UN special envoy Hans Grundberg , whom I meet last year , and who be work incredibly hard for a final peace process . how we respond to a crisis at the pinch point either side of Bab al - Mandab will be watch by other potential transgressor eye other opportunity . this be a key test of our return east of Suez . it be a strategy that commit we to respond to threat on the Malacca strait , the South China sea or the sea around Taiwan . it require our alliance such as AUKUS to be militarily effective and not just defence export opportunity . those alliance need to be found on a belief by our partner that we will show up to bolster they when they be the first line of defence . we can only project power from a secure base in the UK . we be respond to our personnel challenge with the excellent work do by Rick Haythornthwaite . however , we need to see result , and the major issue of service accommodation persist , along with niggly thing such as lack of free access to of wi - fi on basis . our personnel need secure and happy family live at home . when they deploy , their effectiveness depend on know that their love one will be care for . if we want people to fight for our value , we must ensure that they feel value themselves . ship , tank and aircraft without crew be useless . finally , while we be right to act to deter Houthi violence against international shipping , I urge the House to remember that this be one chapter in a long and tragic civil war . so far , our attitude have be supportive to the yemeni people who be suffer so much . I hope that will continue . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) . I hope the Minister and the House listen to her wise insight . I think there be a broad consensus across the House that we be absolutely right to take action to defend international shipping . the Houthis have be call out this afternoon and it be right that we do so . we also need to recognise the humanitarian crisis that exist in Sudan and Yemen , and the wide security concern that we have in the region . there have be no honourable actor in Yemen and it be the population of that country that have suffer . Famine have go hand in hand with war in that country . as have be mention by other , we need to guard against any threat of escalation across the region . we need to think about the nature of the threat we face together with ally , and the importance of leadership not just in deal with terrorist threat from the Houthis but in diplomatic action across the region . act together with our friend and ally in Europe and , as have be mention , through the agency of the United Nations , we must recognise the danger of sleepwalking into wide conflict and the bad actor we face ; the intention of Iran ; the challenge we face with Putin and Russia ; and the challenge we face with China and North Korea . it be important to ensure that we deliver peace and stability throughout the world . when we add to that the threat of disinformation and misinformation , and the polarisation that have be see through much of our politic , these be issue that go beyond the Red sea . it be important , whether we be talk about Yemen or the middle east , that we win heart and mind , because we have to challenge the spiral regional instability . today , when we consider the Red sea , it have to be see as part of a broad landscape of instability and the geopolitical threat we face around the world . there be no link , as have be say by many other , to what be go on in Gaza , but we do need to reflect on what be go on there . the awful event of 7 October last year will forever remain with we all , and of course there must be peace and security for Israel , but it be time to recognise that Palestinians have right and that the palestinian state must be recognise . deal with that threat and remove Hamas do not mean have to flatten Gaza . we be now live with the humanitarian crisis that we see as a result of that . it should shame we all that we be now talk about in excess of 25 , 000 Palestinians who have perish since last October — innocent civilian who have be target for what ? we must not lose sight of the legitimate right of the Israelis and Palestinians to find peace and harmony together . to deliver a two - state solution be the only way to resolve conflict in that war - tear region . we must redouble our effort to make sure that , out of this crisis , we deliver peace and hope for the Palestinians , Israelis and all of we . over the last few month , we have watch the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East seek to continue its valiant effort to provide sanctuary for people in Gaza . sadly , too many UN personnel , as well as civilian , have lose their life in this conflict . the UN humanitarian agency have do their good on the frontline , but the UN Security Council have be paralyse , as it have be for decade , through the power of veto . the time have come to provide proper leadership and to question how these agency should operate . how should we get the collaboration necessary to deal with the challenge in the Red sea , Gaza and elsewhere ? we need to recognise that the effectiveness of the UN to deliver have be blunt by the power of the veto . my contention be that the UN face barrier that inhibit its delivery . at its core , the problem be so often a lack of leadership and the use of the veto by any of the five permanent member of the UN Security Council . when we consider that the provision of the veto be not part of the UN charter , it be right that we now question its use . when we consider that this power sit only with the five permanent member of the Security Council , we have to question the suitability of the existence of that power . surely it be time to reform the Security Council and its membership , and it be certainly time to remove the power of the veto . we should bear in mind that four resolution on the subject of Gaza have be stymie during the last few month . when we look at conflict around the world , we should remember the threat that the influence of bad actor , be they Iran , Russia or China and North Korea , present to the maintaining of world order . the challenge in the Red sea can not be see in isolation ; we face multiple threat across the globe . we must remind ourselves that in Europe , Ukraine must prevail against russian aggression . we need to work in a spirit of collaboration , within Europe , with our NATO ally and globally through the United Nations , to support Ukraine . we also need to recognise that democracy itself be be push back and be under attack in so many part of the world . tellingly , when so many people in the world face election this year , faith and trust in democracy , and — let we be under no illusion — democracy itself be under threat throughout the world . the electoral cycle this year have enormous implication for co - operation , peace and security , but also for economic prosperity , for deal with the challenge of climate change and make this an opportunity for sustainable economic growth . that be important here , and it be important in Yemen . for we , NATO have be instrumental in provide peace and security in Europe , but now we face a threat of decouple from our large ally , the United States , on the back of indifference from political leader in that country . when political leader in the US be question support the cause of peace and stability in Europe against russian aggression , alarm bell should be ring . the question of UK and european leadership and the need to stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine ought to be self - evident . we need to recognise that take it for grant that the US be an ally of Europe against russian aggression in Ukraine may no long be the default position , and we need to provide the support necessary to enable Ukraine to prevail . Ukraine must ward off russian aggression , because failure to do so be not just a threat to the independence and sovereignty of Ukraine , but a threat to the rest of Europe . what do this mean for we in these island ? Europe and all of we in these island need to think about our own strategic autonomy , and thought must be give to the mechanism and forum that will allow that to take place . the first and most pressing priority be support and arm Ukraine . the central question must be this : what will it take for Ukraine to restore its sovereignty and independence , and how will it do that ? we must go beyond the necessary announcement of support for now , and think through the strategic initiative that will help Ukraine to win . Putin can never win . to put it simply , we provide the resource for Ukraine to win , and those in Ukraine provide our peace and security in Europe . that be the deal . failure to secure ukrainian freedom take we into territory where our wide freedom in Europe and around the world will be under threat , with an emboldened Putin push his expansionist agenda . I have argue that we in these island have a part to play in show leadership , along with our partner and ally in Europe . we have a mutual self - interest in strengthen the capability of the United Nations in these challenging time . the risk to peace and security be at a level that we have not witness since the second world war . there be the situation in Europe , with the people of Ukraine bear the brunt of soviet aggression . there be the crisis in the middle east , in Gaza , with the potential for an ever - widen conflict . there be unrest in many part of Africa . the drumbeat for war be ever increase . democracy be under attack , and indeed in retreat , in much of the world . intolerance and division be on the rise . we have to be a voice for good and a voice for reason . stand up against tyrant and seek peace , security and stability in a fractious world be the responsibility of all of we . such leadership be greatly need both here and abroad , and it be important in that regard that we have a full and informed debate here , and seek to build consensus here and leadership globally with other . history will judge we on how we accept our responsibility to deliver peace and security in the Red sea and elsewhere . I remind member of my eight minute guidance . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I will try to wind up after seven minute . I be mindful that lot of other want to get in . lot of good speech today ; I just want to start by refer to the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . I completely agree with what she be say about a two - state solution . those friend of Israel who give Netanyahu and the israeli right an easy ride on this be no friend of Israel , as far as I can see , because all they be do be make Israel ' s long - term future significantly more precarious . Israel ' s existence be accept and guarantee when there be peace with the Palestinians , and until there be peace with Palestinians , Israel be always go to be under threat of some kind . where I differ from the hon . Lady be on her optimism . I would have agree with she in the 1990 , but there have be so much more awful water under the bridge since then . on palestinian statehood , I can not see a good reason not to do it now , but if we have palestinian statehood now and Hamas immediately take over that palestinian statehood in the west bank , it would simply undermine the cause of palestinian statehood . there be a significant problem there and , as the right hon . member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) rightly point out , Iran be behind so much of this . I want to make a few point in the brief time I have . I want to make reference to the excellent speech make my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) and also the speech of the Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) . there appear to be a grow , significant , provable link between the use of proxy warfare and non - state actor , often use by other state , and the rise in conflict - relate sexual violence , which in some part of the world and some conflict be now endemic . we see that with ISIS , which be a non - state actor , and arguably nobody ' s proxy , in the use of Yazidi woman effectively as the spoil of war until they be rape to death . we have see it with the abuse of israeli woman by Hamas , but Hamas be also increasingly intolerant in their islamist attitude towards woman in their own society . we have also see it with the Houthis , with Wagner in Ukraine and with russian troop . it occasionally involve state troop , as well as non - state actor and proxy , and there be an increase casualness with which sexual violence be use in conflict , which I think should disturb we all . the world be move to a more dangerous place ; that be quite clear . it have be become more dangerous since 2010 . Putin declare his new cold war in his Munich speech in 2007 , but we do not want to notice . unfortunately , everything since then have progress quite logically from Putin ' s point of view , although we have still feign surprise . I do not know why we do that . since 2015 we have have a grow China problem with an increasingly intolerant regime under President Xi . there be a battle for humanity under way in the 21st century between open society and closed society and between society where AI and big datum will hopefully be use to improve the quality of human life and place such as Iran , China and Russia where AI and big datum will increasingly be use to control people and society and , effectively , in an orwellian state , to prevent people from rebel because it will be possible to use algorithm to identify when they be about to rebel or fight back and do something about it . that be the big picture that we be deal with . it be particularly concern at the moment that in several area of the world we have conflict between united axis power , if I can call they that . out of three potential conflict that be under way at the moment or about to be , Ukraine and Russia be a hot war where the Russians believe that we be directly involve although we believe that we be indirectly involved . that war be fight with cyber , disinformation , espionage and poisoning , and some of that have be happen in the UK . we also have the expansion of China , with it try to take territory in the South China sea and present an increase threat to Taiwan . Xi have tell his army to be ready to take Taiwan within the next three year , if I remember correctly . in the middle east , Russia ' s ally Iran be behind much of what be happen , as my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset so eloquently say . Iran now have 22 proxy . in Bahrain it have two or three and in Iraq it have at least six , some of which be rocket UK and US force . where else ? in Lebanon it have Hezbollah , which be potentially its most powerful proxy . it be strongly align to the regime in Syria . that be not a proxy but the regime have be heavily dependent on Iran to fight its war . throughout the middle east , the Iranians have build up a web that be a significant threat to we . we have have conventional war that we prepare for and fight for , or that we prepare our armed force to fight and hopefully win , and we have this very black - and - white notion that we be either at peace or we be at war , yet the nature of war be change . we be live in a world in which we be effectively in a perpetual state of conflict with some nation . Russia see itself in perpetual conflict with we . there will be period of hot war and period of cold war , and we must be prepare as never before . likewise , we be effectively wage an indirect war against a series of iranian proxy : Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis and whoever be rocket we this week in Iraq . China ' s power be more economic , but it be use " little blue man " to seize territory in the South China sea — that be in contrast to the " little green man " the Russians use in Crimea . in these key area of the pre - global war phase , we be begin to see a form of total war be wage by our adversary in Ukraine , the middle east and the South China sea . the Foreign Affairs Committee recently hear some interesting evidence on how Iran be , in many way , both more unstable and more powerful than at any other time . it have 22 proxy , and it have the material to build and prepare a nuclear weapon within a week . Iran be at a potentially frightening stage but , at the same time , we know it be very unstable and we know that its young people , especially its young woman , be hostile to the regime , as never before . many people in Iran wish ill of the regime , so we be deal with an Iran that be more aggressively adventurous in its foreign policy , potentially because of its weakness at home . we have arguably not have enough deterrence , and we need more . various member have talk about that in great deal than I have time to go into now . all these thing — the grow number of black swan moment and the grow instability in the world — be an argument for have a great sense of strategy . many people talk about strategy , and there be so many think - tank in the UK dedicate to strategy . it would be wonderful to see politician from both side of the House engage more in strategic thinking . one of my suggestion for global Britain be that , as well as have a National Security Council to deal with current problem , we should have a national strategy council that be always look five , 10 or 20 year ahead to identify problem as they come . I fully agree with the last point make by the hon . member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) . we need those structure . before you come into the Chamber , Madam Deputy Speaker , we discuss the nature of this debate and whether we should have a vote . we be take military action in a region that have be describe as a tinderbox by virtually every member who have speak . there be just over 20 member present , and I say this with respect and affection , but most of they be the House ' s defence nerd . the reason we do not have more member present be that this be a discussion , not a debate . there be no decision to be make at the end and , as a result , I do not think the House be take its responsibility seriously . I think we be on the edge of real danger in this region , and it could spill over and affect the life of our constituent . if we be to take military action , I want to take some responsibility as a Member of this House . I want to be able to go back to my constituent and explain how I have exercise that responsibility , which be why I believe we should have a vote . I be in the Chamber one afternoon when , with even few member present than now , John Reid report that we be send troop to Afghanistan . he give the impression that not a shot would be fire in anger . there be hardly any debate and very little report back , but we lose 400 british troop in Afghanistan and ten of thousand of other , and the war go on for more than a decade . I be also here for the vote on Iraq — we do have a vote then . the hon . member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) say , " yes , look at that , we make a huge mistake . " it be a huge mistake , but the mistake be that it be a whip vote . I think that have it be an unwhipped vote , we would not have take that decision . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) mention Syria . I be here for that vote , when I think we make the right decision , because we could have be get into another Iraq situation and still be stick there , with a huge loss of life — a loss of british life , as well as of other . that be why I believe that on these issue we should be able to vote and decide on when to take military action . we should exercise our own judgment , on the basis of our own view and conscience , because no more significant decision can be make than to send someone to where they could lose their life . that be why we should vote on these occasion . I think we will have to have a vote at some stage in the come period , because I fear that this situation will go on and on . unrelated to that issue , I wish to make a plea . the International Court of Justice ' s interim decision will be come out soon , perhaps today , as some have say , or on Friday , and when it do come out it be important that we have a debate in this House . that would enable the Government to tell we what they will do in the light of that decision . the interim decision will almost certainly attach some condition to the activity of Israel in particular , and it be important that we debate that in this House . it be also important that we have a decision - make process — a vote — on how we as a country can ensure that such a decision and its condition be abide by and implement . my second brief point be that , time and again , the Prime Minister and other have say that there be no link between the Houthis ' action and what be happen in Gaza . that argument be unsustainable . I agree with everything that have be say , by member from across the House , about the Houthis — I condemn they outright . the basis of their belief , as far as I can see , have to be condemn . their action in Yemen and what they be do at the moment have to be condemn . what they be do be horrific , it be put life at risk and they be undermine their own people , but to say that it be completely unrelated to Gaza be unsustainable . People have say , " well , maybe it be ' connected ' to Gaza , " as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) say , what be happen in Gaza be mobilise the arab street across the middle east , and understandably so . People be watch the reportage of the human suffering and react aghast at what they be see on the ground in Gaza . as a result , they be put pressure on their own regime , right the way across , for some form of action . it be because both the US and the UK have not take effective action that desire for action get distort in other form — it be the Houthis ' excuse for their action . that lead we to the fact that we here have to accept our responsibility . the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) talk about the House be shame by the number of death — the 25 , 000 death that have take place . we be shame by witness on our television screen the operation and the amputation of child ' s limb without anaesthetic . we should be shame , but we should be more shame by our refusal to act soon enough . I think we be complicit with Biden in basically say to the Israelis , " you have more time to sort this out with military action , rather than look at a real strategic plan for the future . " we have a responsibility because of our history over the past century and a half in the region , so we should come forward with our own proposal soon . some have be mention already and I do think that the recognition of Palestine be important , because that send a message to Israel and elsewhere — rise — if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , I be go to try to keep within the time if I can . Recognition of Palestine will send a message to Israel that it have to come to term with that reality at some stage . I know people have say that we have to get rid of Hamas , but , as soon as we can secure peace , Palestinians should be give the opportunity to vote for their leadership and be allow to exercise democracy . I think people will be surprised at how the Palestinians will vote ; I think they will vote for peace and for those who advocate peace . that might give we the opportunity to consolidate the palestinian people , who have be so divide by Israel between the west bank and Gaza . we need to think creatively , for example like that , before we blunder even far . I hope the Government will now come forward with a more constructive plan , and let we vote on it . I will keep to time , Madam Deputy Speaker , as two hon . friend will give I a seven - minute bell . I strongly support the Government ' s move and the strike they be take in the Red sea . in the Sunday Times at the weekend , there be a rather amusing cartoon of Lord Nelson , with the telescope place to his bad eye and the word " I see no ship " emblazon across the top of the page . hon . member can guess that the article be about the lamentable size of our Royal Navy . over a week ago , the Defence Secretary , to his great credit , kindly ask I to attend a major speech he be make at Lancaster House . he warn that we be in a " pre - war " period , with the west face very real and grow threat from around the world , as we have hear in the House tonight . the head of our Army be warn about call up the public in the event of war — that be probably the like of I , because there ain ' t anybody else . NATO Admiral Rob Bauer go even far , say we should prepare for " all - out war " with Russia , and Germany be predict Putin could attack NATO in as little as five year . with all that in mind , why do the Royal Navy have only 18 frigate and destroyer , with only a small number able to deploy at any one time ? have have the pleasure and honour to sit on our Defence Committee for four year , I could provide a number of answer to that question , but I fear many in the House be aware of they already and I do not want to labour the point . to be fair to the Government , some 13 new warship be plan and £ 31 billion be be spend on upgrade our nuclear submarine fleet , but we will not see those for some year to come . the threat be now and , as I have say , very real . HMS Diamond , the late Type 45 destroyer , and her crew be do a courageous and professional job in the Red sea . they be an example of our armed force at their very good , defend a vital international route that much of our trade go through . our thought and prayer be with they all . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I will keep go , if I may , because we be get to the end of the debate and other want to speak . the enemy be a rag - bag bunch of rebel use cheap drone , which the ship counter with £ 1 million Sea Viper missile and , on occasion , 30 mm cannon . the operation be exactly why we have a Royal Navy . meanwhile , the RAF be fly operation from Cyprus , a round trip of 3 , 200 mile . I ask the Minister : why ? we have two state - of - the - art aircraft carrier lie in Portsmouth , equip with the late F - 35 stealth fighter . it be true that we have only a few of those aeroplane at the moment , but will the Minister explain why neither they nor the aircraft carrier be be use ? the current very effective threat to a vital international trade route be sober . these be Houthi rebel , not some sophisticated peer adversary . what if they be ? I accept that in that scenario we would be part of a NATO force , with the US do much of the heavy lifting , but this relatively minor excursion in the Red sea be yet another wake - up call . for 13 year in this place , I and many other have call for more money for defence . for 13 year , various Prime Ministers have reassure we that our armed force be in good order and ready to fight . I have no doubt at all that our brave man and woman be ready for just that , but do we have the resilience , number , reserve , ship , plane and armoured vehicle to fight a sustained conflict ? rise — I will , if I may , just keep go . forgive I , but I do not want to go over my time . this debate be about the situation in the Red sea . that put the spotlight on the Royal Navy , which be so short of sailor that some ship be have to be retire early . as both my grandfather and father take great pride in remind I , the Royal Navy be the senior service , and there be a good reason for that . there be no doubt that a very large fleet during the second world war play a significant part in save this country from invasion and in keep our vital trade route open , not least to the US . the much - reduce Royal Navy again play a vital role in re - take the Falklands in 1982 . unfortunately , the peace dividend have continue to take its toll and the Royal Navy be critically short of ship and sailor — to the point that we be endanger the security of our country . expenditure be a matter of priority , and this be where the Government have to state priority . can we please have no more arbitrary target on defence ? I be tired of hear 2 % , 2 . 2 % or even 2 . 5 % . can we ask the military what it need to play a prominent role in NATO and to defend our country and its dependant ? once we have that work out , we can then see what we can afford . if we can not afford it , I suggest that we reignite the economy , get growth go , raise the tax revenue by lower taxis , and put more money into our armed force . in conclusion — I be within time — let we adhere to the warning of a grow number of eminent people and prevent the situation in which we find ourselves in 1939 . undoubtedly , it be our duty to protect freedom of navigation not only for our own self - interest , but to defend a core tenet of international law . the question be how we go about it . first , we must recognise the limitation of our short - term intervention and remain focused on a long - term peaceful solution to the civil war in Yemen . that remain the good route to stability in the region . secondly , we must build durable and lasting coalition to maintain freedom of navigation in the Red sea and beyond . the Houthis have be engage in a decade - long civil war . even in the face of extensive aerial bombardment by the Saudis and the Emiratis , the Houthis continue to make territorial gain , import more and more sophisticated weapon , and fire rocket at saudi and Emirati city , all this while thousand of Yemenis starve to death or be kill in the crossfire . despite all their firepower , boot on the ground , understanding of the region , support from the UK and US , and ample political will , the Saudis and Emiratis have fail to weaken the Houthi movement . we should therefore be realistic that our action will almost certainly not be a limited containment or restore a deterrent . all the sign point to escalation ; it would be foolish to ignore they . therefore , peace offer the clear durable long - term solution to the Houthi attack in the Red sea . in recent year , considerable progress have be make in negotiate a last ceasefire in the country . there be true momentum to talk , which have reduce violence , end almost all strike in Yemen and in the arabian peninsula and force the Houthis to moderate their behaviour . a negotiate peace to the yemeni civil war remain our good hope for force the Houthis to abide by international law , let alone end the untold suffering in Yemen . but the brutal event of 7 October have derail peace effort . it be clear that only our strategic rival have anything to gain from escalate conflict in the Red sea . Iran in particular have much to gain from cripple the peace process and demonstrate the havoc that it and its proxy can unleash on international shipping . peace in Yemen pull the rug from under those who use instability and conflict to increase their own power . we must recognise that target strike be highly unlikely to stop the Houthis in the long term and , instead , redouble our effort to kickstart peace negotiation . on that basis , our Government should engage more closely with partner in the UN , the EU and our long - stand ally in the region . I reiterate the importance of the UK uphold international law . however , the current American - lead coalition be far too limited and look too vulnerable to short - term political change . if the UK be to remain a true defender of freedom of navigation , we must start build broad alliance . the USA be become increasingly isolationist and be tiring of its role as the world ' s policeman — a trend that go back to Obama and be embody by the " America first " doctrine of the current frontrunner in the US election . while America remain one of our most closely align partner , we must foster other coalition if we be to guarantee the long - term upholding of international law . there need to be much great involvement by regional power in police international law in the Red sea . so far , only Bahrain have join the coalition . a coalition with great regional and arab involvement would undercut the Houthis ' claim that they be support the fight of the Palestinians against America and the west . great engagement from big arab state in defend international law would have the add benefit of not only make intervention more effective , but create broad international norm that attack non - military shipping can not be a legitimate act of war . the UK should utilise its considerable influence in Riyadh , Abu Dhabi and Cairo to push those country into join these effort . additionally , we must engage with our european partner , who have a like - minded and long - term interest in guarantee the free flow of global trade . lastly , I urge the Government to consider the successful global fight against somali piracy as a model for what a long - term project to protect shipping in the region could look like . the situation in the Red sea be unlikely to be solve in the short term by a few missile . the Government must therefore consider long - term solution to ensure endure stability in the region . I rise to take what be obviously a minority view in the Chamber , give the view of member from all party , other than a few individual . it be not , however , an insignificant view within the wide country . there be those who oppose an escalation in an area that be already a tinderbox , worry about a rush to war , and seek instead a push for peace . of course we condemn the action of the Houthis — that have be do , as people have say , by the UN Security Council — as we rightly condemn Hamas . as I will go on to say , the issue be inextricably link . this be , however , an escalation . we have not be bomb Somalia with regard to piracy , or Eritrea . although it be a while since President Obama launch cruise missile on al - Shabaab , it seem to be the Houthis who be be pick on at the moment , albeit they be breach international law and have to be hold to some account . it be an escalation against a country that be already one of the poor in the world , and this will inflict further harm . this country have endure 10 year of bombing from Saudi Arabia , which have be arm with the fine munition that the US and UK could provide it with — and that have not manage to destroy the Houthis . somehow , despite Saudi Arabia be provide with all that equipment , to the great benefit of many private corporation , the Houthis have continue to be able to cause harm and destruction . that will obviously continue — we have already have one set of strike , and we be now on to a second . how many more set of strike will there be before there be either an escalation or a call to halt they ? I think the Minister himself state that surface - to - air missile have be take out . I do not claim to have any military expertise , but surface - to - air missile do not seem to I to have any logical relation to the Houthis attack shipping ; they appear to be more related to the USA defend its vested interest . this be a lurch towards wide war . we have hear comment from member across the House — shamefully , I would say — about Iran , and conflict with Russia and China . my grandfather fight in world war one . my father fight in world war two . both fight to try to ensure that their child would never have to fight in another conflict . I do not wish to see my child or grandchild end up in world war three , yet there seem to be an almost " Dr . Strangelove " tendency among some who be pull we in that direction . even if we do not go down that precipitous route , with all the disaster that would envelop it , we also face a legacy of hatred , which we have see from Afghanistan and especially from Iraq . we should not think that people will view this as neutral . People — not simply the Houthis , but people in the arab world , the muslim world and in our own country — will see this as one - sided , judgmental and pick upon one side , yet fail to do anything about the fundamental issue of what be happen in Gaza . we run the risk of worsen terrorism , both abroad and , indeed , home - grow . that take we to the question of why the Houthis be do this . it be risible to say that it be not connect to Gaza — of course it be . the timeline speak to that . trade be go , although not without difficulty , prior to 7 October . the timeline dictate that that be the cause of it . indeed , the Houthis have tell we , in their almost webcam invasion of land on the tanker , because they even fly the palestinian flag . it be reminiscent of when Britain take a helicopter and land somebody so that we could have a flag on Rockall . the Houthis make it clear that what they be do relate to what be happen in Gaza . that be why in order to get peace , as I say after the Prime Minister ' s statement early this week , we be require to look in conflict resolution not simply at the manifestation , but the fundamental root , and at the root be what be happen in Gaza . we have hear today that the purpose of the airstrike be to preserve international law . international law also cover stop genocide . we have hear from other speaker eloquently point out that 25 , 000 Palestinians have die in Gaza — 1 . 1 % of the population , and 70 % of they woman and child . what would that be in UK term ? that would be almost three quarter of a million UK citizen wipe out since 7 October . do we think that would go unnoticed ? yet what have happen ? we have say , " Netanyahu be maybe go a bit far , " and , " maybe Israel have to call it all back . " we should be support South Africa and other country in push this at the International Court of Justice . I believe and expect that on Friday the International Court of Justice , as people have suggest , will rule against Israel , because what Israel be do be fundamentally wrong , and we need to call that out . if we want to ensure that we get maritime trade go , which we do , and ensure that we protect seafarer — not so much UK seafarer , because there be no rush to protect the P & O worker when they be gruesomely treat , and most of those sail on the ship , of which only one have a UK flag , be not UK seafarer — we have to solve the problem in Gaza . that be where the solution lie , and that be why we must not rush towards escalation ; we must have a push towards peace . in term of enforce international law , it be not enough to enforce international maritime law and the freedom of movement . what about protect the right of woman and child — even child who be have amputation carry out without anaesthetic ? we can not pick and choose on international law , and it be about time that the UK stand up for the right of the palestinian people . I be grateful to the Government for grant the debate , and to the Defence Secretary for set out at the beginning of the debate the reason for british military action in the Red sea region . he be right that this action be indeed limited , necessary and proportionate ; in self - defence ; use minimal necessary force ; and for the freedom of navigation . I agree with all that , and it be good that it be set out in that way . where I take issue with the Defence Secretary be that there be no vote associate with the debate . I know that a couple other right hon . and hon . member have talk about the business of whether there should be prerogative power or parliamentary approval for military action , and that be what I want to make the focus of my contribution . I think it be the hon . member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) who talk about how only twice in 200 year have Parliament have a say before military action take place . I be not advocate for military action to take place follow a vote . I recognise that there be plenty of occasion when parliamentary approval need to happen retrospectively , after the event . those scenario include reason of operational security and the deployment of special force , which be definitely within the domain of the Executive and not necessarily the business of the legislature , and our international treaty obligation , as he say . we can think of many scenario and emergency where there need to be a decision by the Executive and the Government need to say what be go to happen , without consultation in advance . in those scenario , however , there be no reason why we can not then come back to the House and have a retrospective vote on that action . if that be happen today , I would very happily vote in support of the military action that have now take place twice in the Red sea . there be two problem with retrospective vote . the first be that the action would already have happen , so if the House have vote against it , what would we do about it ? the second be that they emasculate this House , because if we vote for military action , how could we then criticise it ? only if we do not vote for it can we do what we be do today and scrutinise what the Government be do . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . I intend to set out in my contribution the answer to both , so I hope he will listen out for they . he be very welcome to intervene at the end if he do not feel that I have answer they sufficiently . if the Government be confident in their case , what be there to fear ? why can we not have a vote on military action if the Government be confident in their case and make that case in front of Parliament ? my particular concern be that this action set a precedent for the future . we have go over many time in this debate why it be the bread and butter of the Royal Navy . freedom of navigation be something we can be very proud that the Royal Navy have secure for we for hundred of year , but this could set a precedent for future military action where there be no prior vote or indeed retrospective vote . I think that can be explain in part by the Foreign Secretary ' s experience , which other have talk about , of seek parliamentary support for military action against Bashar al - Assad ' s regime in Syria but fail to get it . I think the opposition of some mps in 2013 be reflective of the concern of their constituent , who at the time feel a reticence due to the invasion of Iraq in 2003 . we could see the 2013 vote as an overreaction or perhaps over - reticence . under this Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , we now risk overreact in the other direction , by look back at that 2013 vote and decide that we be not go to have retrospective approval at all . surely the lesson from the 2013 vote be that government must do well at explain the necessity of military action , not only to mps , many of whom be not expert in this area and would rather defer to people with more expertise , but , crucially , to their constituent . we need to convince the british public that military action be necessary . that be particularly the case after the debacle of 2003 and Britain ' s involvement in the invasion of Iraq . I appreciate that there be situation , which the hon . member for North Wiltshire speak about , in which we do not have sight of secret intelligence and therefore the Executive need to make a decision without consultation . I appreciate that , but I think there be still a scepticism amongst the british public about the notion of secret intelligence and say , " you can ' t know ; you need to trust we . " again , the invasion of Iraq in 2003 have create a very cynical public on that subject . the counter - insurgency of the early part of this century have damage trust . to restore that trust , we need this House to be able to vote retrospectively on military action . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way at the end , if I may . what set the UK and our western ally apart be that we practice democratic control of our armed force . this be all about set we apart from our adversary , but we also need to demonstrate to our own service personnel not just that they can be assure of the support of their Prime Minister and their executive , but that they have the british public behind they . it be not just about support for the troop — we all support the troop — but about support for the cause , which be so important too . we need to guard against a future scenario — one that member might be able to imagine — in which the Prime Minister be threaten by dissent on his own Back Benches . imagine a future Prime Minister who seek to distract from domestic challenge by exercise military force abroad . we might call it " domestic distraction " . I have no confidence that every Prime Minister will operate with the foresight to anticipate what escalation british military action might trigger . as Clausewitz say , war be a dialectic . in 21st century term , the enemy get a vote . this be not just about the Houthi militia ; it be about the iranian sponsor of the Houthis , Hamas and Hezbollah , and about Iran ' s partner and customer , Russia . we must be cognisant of all that context when we take military action . for that reason , we must return to the House and get parliamentary scrutiny and approval . let we imagine that the strike have happen — as they do last week and early this week — and that the House have a vote on the matter today and vote against they . what would then happen ? the point of a retrospective vote be that it give guidance to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary on what action the british people think should be take in future . that be very relevant in this case because , as we have already hear , these two occasion of military strike be not likely to be isolate , and we be likely to see future british military action in the Red sea . when we talk about future british military action , the Defence Secretary need to think carefully about speak softly and carry a big stick . at this stage , as we have hear from Conservative Members , he risk have armed force that be too small , and misplace the stick and shout . before I call the shadow Minister , I be concerned that not everybody who have contribute to the debate be here for the wind - up . it be important that contributor do the House the courtesy of return to hear the response , because that be what they be : response to the debate and the contribution that right hon . and hon . member have make . I hope that that will be feed back , yet again . I call the shadow Minister . we have have an excellent debate . it be true that it have be wide - range on occasion , but it have also be thoughtful , frank and , at time , passionate . I certainly hope that the Defence Secretary will take the trouble to read Hansard tomorrow to at least be aware of the excellent contribution that have be make . it have be interesting to listen to the contribution about whether Parliament should have a say on military action beforehand or retrospectively , and I be sure that we will return to that debate in earnest . I give a commitment to read what I be sure be an excellent book by the hon . member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) . I shall send you one . thank you . not free ! I will make no comment about that . this debate be seriously important because , as I think we all agree , there have to be government accountability for the action that they take . I be therefore genuinely pleased that the debate have take place , and hope that further such debate take place in future . on the point about voting , which I think be ridiculous , during the bad period of the second world war when Churchill be very unpopular , if a vote have be take in the House , I suspect that , on some occasion , he might have lose . what on earth would we have do then ? I be sure that member have note the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , and be sure that when we have a detailed debate on that issue , his comment will weigh heavily on people ' s mind . this debate be important because accountability be vital . as we have make clear on a number of occasion , the Labour party support this limit , targeted action . we do so because it be important to protect international commerce and to ensure security for maritime shipping in the Red sea . we uphold international law , and believe it would be quite wrong to ignore the disruption to the flow of good , food , medicine and much else , as well as the threat to human life , that be be cause by the Houthis ' action . I agree with the comment of the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) — with which many other member also agree , include my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) — that the Houthis be a truly appalling terrorist organisation , and be most definitely no freedom fighter . it be also worth note that the Houthis ' action be harm Yemen itself , the country that have experience the bad starvation in modern time . as the hon . member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) mention , 90 % of Yemen ' s food be import , and those import be clearly at risk . let we not forget , too , that the Houthis ' action have terrible consequence for other country along the Red sea . Eritrea rely on fishing , farming and mineral export , all of which travel by sea . for Sudan , the Red sea be vital for aid , which have come to a virtual end since the Houthis ' attack begin . far up the Red sea we have Egypt , a country experience severe economic difficulty . it stand to lose million of dollar in revenue from the Suez canal — money that be desperately need — if the Houthis ' action be allow to continue . I be extremely grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . for the sake of completeness , would he also like to add that the Houthis have fire missile into Saudi Arabia and the UAE , both of which be sovereign state ? the right hon . Gentleman make a very important point , which reinforce the essential point that action be not only justified and lawful , but necessary to prevent that kind of violence and aggression by this rag - tag of terrorist call the Houthis . it be significant that the action of the United States and the United Kingdom have logistical support from Australia , Bahrain , Canada and the Netherlands , because the international community must be and act as one . it be worth state that on Monday evening those four country put out a joint statement , along with the UK and the US , which say : " recognise the broad consensus of the international community , we again act as part of a coalition of like - minded country commit to uphold the rule - base order , protect freedom of navigation and international commerce , and hold the Houthis accountable for their illegal and unjustifiable attack on mariner and commercial shipping . " it be also important to acknowledge that the UN Security Council agree a resolution that unequivocally condemn the Houthis ' attack . I be glad that my hon . friend the Member for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) specifically refer to that resolution . with Britain take this target military action , it be important that the House recognise the professionalism and bravery of our armed force — I be sure we be all united on that . I be refer , of course , to those who be serve on HMS Diamond and those fly RAF Typhoons . of course , we recognise that military strike can reduce and perhaps eliminate the immediate threat to free navigation but , as a number of member have indicate , there need to be a wide political strategy . the Defence Secretary touch on that subject at the start of the debate , but will the Minister indicate more precisely and in great detail what the strategy be ? we all know only too well the horrific suffering that the people of Yemen have experience over the past few year , with the terrible civil war and the appalling humanitarian crisis that unfold as a result . the UK have a historical responsibility in the area , and we also be the UN penholder for Yemen , so I would appreciate it if the Minister elaborate on the Prime Minister ' s comment to the House yesterday about what further assistance can be give to the people of Yemen to help to alleviate their suffering . a number of member refer to the terrible situation in Gaza . the situation be truly terrible . I do not accept , however , the Houthi claim that attack ship from around the world be somehow link to the conflict in Gaza . there be a desperate need for a humanitarian truce lead to a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza . indeed , we must move as quickly as we possibly can to a two - state solution . that be in everyone ' s interest , as the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) say very clearly . it have to be say that the action by the Houthis in the Red sea be an attack on the international community and the rule of law , and they should be see for what they be . let I be clear : labour support proportionate airstrike , but I would welcome clarification from the Minister on the point that I have raise . this have be a thoughtful debate and , I think , a united one , and I will endeavour to respond to as many of the point make as I can in the time I have . as my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary make clear at the start of the debate , the Houthis ' illegal attack on commercial shipping and british and american warship in the Red sea be completely unacceptable . despite repeat warning from the international community , they have carry out more than 30 attack since 19 November . as I think all hon . and right hon . member across the House have say , this be unacceptable , illegal and dangerous , and it can not stand . that be why , amid the ongoing and imminent threat to british commercial and military vessel and those of our partner in the Red sea , the Prime Minister order the Royal Air Force to carry out target strike against military facility use by the Houthis , first on 11 January and then again on Monday . we act alongside our US ally and with support from the Netherlands , Canada , Australia and Bahrain . the strike be limited , necessary , proportionate and legal . we act in self - defence , consistent with the UN charter and in line with international law to uphold the freedom of navigation . on the specific issue raise in the debate , let I try to respond to the speech we hear , start with that by the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) . he mention his agreement with and support for what the Government be seek to do , and we be most grateful for that . he also call for a wide defence debate , and I completely take his point . however , he will also accept that , under the change that take place , the Government basically give that time to the Backbench Business Committee , so the Backbench Business Committee itself be the most likely target , in addition to the Government , to provide that extra time . do my right hon . friend not accept that his Majesty ' s Government have an absolute duty to provide debate in this House in Government time to discuss defence ? just to say that the Backbench Business Committee may or may not provide it if someone apply for a debate be not enough . we want proper debate here in Government time . no , no — I completely accept what my hon . friend be say . I be just point out that the reform make in relation to the Backbench Business Committee have eat into that time . I very much thank the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne for his support for the Government ' s strategy on Ukraine . it be a great strength , I think , that there be full and total unity across the House on that matter . he ask I about the two landing platform dock Albion and Bulwark , and ask for an undertaking that they will not be scrap . I be able , on behalf of the Government , to give he the undertaking that neither of they will be scrap . I know that will come as a relief to the great friend of many of we , particularly on this side of the House : Lord Llewellyn , his Majesty ' s ambassador to Italy , who be the honorary ship ' s captain of HMS Albion . my right hon . friend be cover the point about the United Kingdom Government ' s strategy to degrade the Houthis . look at all the lever that we have militarily , economically and diplomatically , our key ally the United States have take a specific decision that the United Kingdom have not take yet . the United States have proscribe the Houthis as a terrorist organisation , with that come into effect in 30 day ' time . why have the United Kingdom Government not do that ? my hon . friend will understand that we would not give a running commentary to the House on the issue of sanction proscription ahead of make any such announcement , so I can not give he an answer to that . rise — I will give way in a moment ; I just want to finish deal with the comment by the shadow Secretary of State . he also ask whether HMS Diamond will be replace on the station . the answer be yes , she will be replace by HMS Richmond , but he will accept , I hope , that I can not give any operational detail about that . the right hon . Gentleman also raise the issue of Israel and Gaza , which be adjacent to this debate if not directly part of it . that issue be similarly raise by the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) and for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) , whose son we thank for his service , by my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) , and by the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) , and for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) . colleague throughout the debate have raise this point , and I reiterate that there be no link between our action of self - defence in the Red sea , and the situation in Israel and Gaza . the Houthis be use event in Israel and Gaza as an excuse to destabilise the region far . they be try to paint themselves as protector of the oppressed , but their own track record of oppression show they in a very different light . Britain want to see an end to the fighting in Gaza as soon as possible . we be call for an immediate humanitarian pause to get aid in and hostage out , and as a vital step towards build a sustainable , permanent ceasefire , without a return to destruction , fighting , and loss of life . to achieve that , we need Hamas to agree to release all the hostage . Hamas can no long be in charge of Gaza , and an agreement must be in place for the Palestinian Authority to return to Gaza . while I be on that point , may I say to the hon . member for East Lothian a word or two about the reference to the International Court of Justice ? the Government believe that the referral by South Africa to the International Court of Justice be unhelpful , but of course we respect the role and independence of the ICJ . I say to the House , particularly on Holocaust Memorial Day , that the suggestion that Israel be engage in genocide against the palestinian people be both wrong and profoundly offensive . I make it clear on Holocaust Memorial Day that we also remember the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 , in Bosnia in 1995 and in Sudan in 2003 , as well as in Cambodia in the 1970 . if I may update the House , the ICJ have announce during the course of the debate that it will deliver its decision on South Africa ' s request for provisional measure at 12 o ' clock UK time on Friday 26 January . let I return to the excellent speech make by so many of my right hon . and hon . friend and Members , and I will turn first to the speech by the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee — rise — before I do that , I shall give way to my right hon . friend . my right hon . friend be , as always , the model of courtesy . for the avoidance of any linger doubt — I be sure this can be avoid as I be get very positive signal from the Defence Secretary sit to his left — will he confirm that HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark , whose plan out - of - service date be 2033 and 2034 respectively , not only will not be scrap ahead of time , but will not be mothball either ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to detect the supportive view of the Secretary of State for Defence . as a former serviceman , I have a simple view that quantity have a quality all of its own . can the Minister please assure the House whether the fcdo have ask the MOD for additional platform to be send to the region with a view to offer deterrence against aggressor and ensure the safe passage of british shipping ? my hon . friend will have hear the Prime Minister ' s word explain what the strategy be and how we be implement it , and I can tell he that the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence be perfectly join in every sense in pursue that strategy . my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton , who in these matter be something of a poacher turn gatekeeper — perhaps it be a gamekeeper turn poacher , because she be previously a distinguished member of the diplomatic corp — deliver trenchant support for our action . she speak up for Arab - lead initiative in the region , and I thank she very much also for agree to organise a workshop on Iran in the House of Commons for half a day . the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) ask who we be listen to . the answer be that we be listen to the House , and he will have hear today a House unite . he set out the challenge face the defence budget , and many in the House will understand and agree with he that the challenge be significant , but we be tackle those challenge . my right hon . friend the Member for Elmet and Rothwell ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) speak warmly and rightly about the Royal Navy . we thank he for his support , and he give the House a geopolitical discourse , in particular on the challenge to the global food chain , and the whole House will have hear what he say . my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire ( James Gray ) remind we of the excellence of his book , and we author must stick together . he also explain , as the Prime Minister do , why Parliament be not consult in these circumstance . that point be also visit by two Opposition Members , and I will come to that in a moment . there have be concern about the change of registration for vessel go through the Red sea , notably those change to the People ' s Republic of China . if the Minister can not give I an answer today , will he write to the Defence Committee or its Chair , the right hon . member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , on how many merchant fleet vessel be change their registration from their country of origin to the People ' s Republic of China , and whether Chinese - register vessel have be target ? the hon . Gentleman ask I a detailed question , and the Secretaries of State for Transport and for Defence will have hear what he say . I be sure they will be happy to write to he . my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset speak about the danger and the nature of the iranian regime , and he eloquently set out the threat to international maritime law . as I have say , I can not give a commentary on IRGC proscription , but I can tell he that we have hear his view and those of other right hon . and hon . member . my right hon . friend will recall that I have ask on several occasion why Iran Air be still fly from Heathrow and why iranian bank be still trade in the City of London . those be separate issue , but none the less important alongside the proscription issue . I will ensure that my right hon . friend have a detailed answer on where we stand on both those issue . the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon speak movingly and compellingly on the importance , as I think the whole House agree , of a two - state solution be in the interest not just of Israelis and Palestinians , but of the wide region and all of we here in the UK . my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) give powerful warning about the danger of starvation in Yemen ; that point be echo by the hon . member for Caerphilly . the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) support work more closely with the region and mention the importance of tackle wide example of instability . the whole House will have be grateful for his remark , and in particular for the wise word he speak about Ukraine . my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) talk about the impact and the effect of Iran ' s proxy . he speak with both experience and knowledge about the risk of warfare and the need for a great sense of strategy , look in particular at the work of the National Security Council . some of we be involve with that when it be set up . I take a careful note of what he say . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) mention that he think he be join a debate with defence nerd . I want to assure he of a warm welcome to our number . he , along with the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) , speak about the importance of have a vote . the Government have make it clear that it be neither practical nor sensible to publicise such an action in advance as that could both undermine the effectiveness of the action and potentially risk the life of armed force personnel involve . my view be that my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire have the well of their interesting inner debate . what about the situation of retrospective approval ? I think that be the point he raise , which my hon . friend the Member for North Wiltshire answer with great eloquence . my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) speak use his detailed military knowledge to the advantage of the House , with considerable historical analogy . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) warn the House about the importance of defend international maritime law . I do ask why the aircraft carrier be not be use in the Red sea , and I would be grateful if some answer could be give . the use of the aircraft carrier , one of which be head to a NATO exercise anyway , will be keep under review . if the asset that they would bring to bear on our central aim in this matter be appropriate , of course the right decision will be take . I think I have already answer the point make by the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton , which my hon . friend the Member for North Wilshire engage with specifically . I therefore think that I have cover every speech make , so I will draw my remark to a close . we have send the clear possible message that we will continue to reduce the Houthis ' ability to carry out these attack , and we will back our warning with action . the Houthis should be under no misunderstanding : Britain and our ally be commit to hold they to account . yesterday ' s statement from 24 country condemn and demand an end to the Red sea attack . military strike be just one part of our wide response . first , we be increase our diplomatic engagement . the Prime Minister speak to President Biden about these issue on Monday night . the Foreign Secretary , who even now be in the region and will be visit a number of different country , have a meeting today with Prime Minister Netanyahu , and he meet his iranian counterpart last week . he make it clear that Iran must cease supply the Houthis and use its influence to stop Houthi attack . secondly , we must end the illegal flow of arm to the Houthis . we have intercept weapon shipment in the region before , include component of the very missile use by the Houthis today . those who supply such weapon to the Houthis to conduct these attack be violate UN Security Council resolution 2216 and international law . thirdly , we will use the most effective mean at our disposal to cut off the Houthis ' financial resource where they be use to fund these attack . finally , we need to keep help the people of Yemen , who have suffer so grievously as a result of the country ' s civil war . the Houthis ' action make that suffering bad . we will continue to deliver humanitarian aid and to support a negotiate peace in that conflict — that be the position — and Ministers be absolutely committed to keep the House fully inform , as the House see fit . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the situation in the Red Sea . business without Debate Delegated Legislation [ relevant Document : 245th Report of the Ecclesiastical Committee , HC 340 . ] Church of England ( General Synod ) ( Measures ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the Church of England ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) measure ( HC 341 ) , pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , be present to his Majesty for his Royal Assent in the form in which it be lay before Parliament . — ( Andrew Selous . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the Church of England Pensions ( application of Capital Funds ) measure ( HC 342 ) , pass by the General Synod of the Church of England , be present to his Majesty for his Royal Assent in the form in which it be lay before Parliament . — ( Andrew Selous . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - Ceasefire in Gaza I rise to present a petition urge the Government to call on Israel and Hamas to implement an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , and for the immediate release of all hostage . over the past four month , Gaza have be subject to unrelenting bombardment which , follow almost two decade of siege , have create a humanitarian crisis . almost 100 , 000 Palestinians have be kill and injure by the israeli military , and million more have be displace and be subject to severe shortage of food , medicine , water and aid — with no end in sight . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to call on Israel and Hamas to implement an immediate " — and sustain — " ceasefire to prevent further bloodshed and damage so that a peaceful two - state solution may be achieve in Palestine and Israel . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Manchester Gorton , declare that an urgent , immediate and sustained ceasefire be need in Gaza to prevent the humanitarian crisis from intensify ; far declare condemnation for the killing of the civilian , the bombing of public infrastructure , and the targeting of journalist ; call for the immediate release of israeli hostage be hold by Hamas ; and note that an immediate end to the violence be urgent to ensure the viability for a peaceful two - state solution . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to call on Israel and Hamas to implement an immediate ceasefire to prevent further bloodshed and damage so that a peaceful two - state solution may be achieve in Palestine and Israel . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002905 ] Nuclear Defence infrastructure : parliamentary Scrutiny Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not know I be so popular with Government Back Benchers . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] now , now , now . we be not have any of that . that be not fair . the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) be popular and it be very good that there be so many member here to listen to he . we will tell he why later . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be very grateful for the opportunity that Mr Speaker have give I to raise an issue that I think we can all agree deserve wide attention and scrutiny . I do not think I have ever do an Adjournment debate on a Wednesday — or one so well attend , I have to say — and I be glad to be do so at a relatively decent hour , not least because I know something be happen afterwards in this very Chamber . I want to start with an appeal to those on the Government Front Bench and to anyone else who might be think of intervene . it be clear that I be a member of the Scottish National party and that this be a debate that concern the UK ' s nuclear enterprise . on that level it might be fairly predictable , but I hope that in prepare for this debate the Minister leave at home or in the Ministry of Defence all the customary stuff usually reserve for SNP Members discuss nuclear weapon in this place . it may be tempting to play to our basis and paint this debate as yet more — forgive I for say it , Madam Deputy Speaker , so close to Burns night — haggis - munch , burst - bagpipe whingeing , but I hope we can all agree that the trigger for this debate be some very serious allegation from a senior official . People across these island who live beside , or in the vicinity of , nuclear - regulate site deserve to hear a response to those allegation . I be glad to see the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) in his place as well . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? not right now ; if the hon . Gentleman would allow I to continue for a moment . I be go to set aside my own and my party ' s well - know and understand standpoint on the morality and utility of the nuclear enterprise , in order to focus on the specific of the allegation make in the blog of 30 December by a well - know former adviser , Dominic Cummings . I hope that the Minister will reciprocate and show the House the respect it deserve . as another small caveat , let I make it clear from the outset that I understand three thing about Dominic Cummings : that he certainly have his own well - publicise agenda when it come to issue with the civil service , especially in relation to civil service reform ; that he be demonstrably not as clever as he think he be ; and that he have also be know to present " dead cat " argument as a distraction from his own shortcoming — in this instance , the fact that the Prime Minister choose not to rehire he as an adviser . the hon . Gentleman and I have different opinion about nuclear capability — I believe that we should have it , and the hon . Gentleman say no — but I think we agree on the issue of nuclear safety . do he recognise that our nuclear defence be imperative to the security of the nation and to fulfil international obligation , and also that that can not be achieve without substantial investment ? this be not optional ; the money must be find , and find now , to ensure that we have not only nuclear safety but , just as importantly , nuclear capability . my answer to the hon . Gentleman be that he might as well stay for the rest of the debate to hear my view on that . I have to say that Mr Cummings ' s former role , and the nature of the allegation he have make , be such that it be bizarre , frankly , at least from my perspective , that the only attempt to scrutinise they be take place not in a parliamentary Committee but in what , I have to say , be usually the graveyard spot of parliamentary business . Parliament be sovereign in everything , I guess , apart from the nuclear enterprise . I will , I be afraid , quote from Mr Cummings ' s blog quite extensively . I hope the Minister have already read it , but it be important for it to be read into the record of the House . there be two principal aspect to which I would like the Government to respond : first , the state of the defence nuclear infrastructure across these island ; and secondly , the decision - make process in the civil service and how it relate to democratic oversight . I should also say , before the Minister use up some of the time for his response to say it , that I be not expect he to comment , in any shape or form , on operational matter . I understand that much that be to do with the nuclear enterprise can not be discuss publicly . so let we begin . unfortunately , I can not leave out all the internal machination of the conservative party ' s psychodrama , as some of it be quite pertinent . cumming begin : " I do have two conversation with the pm , the first in 2022 just after he become PM . the PM want an actual plan include how to grip power and get thing do , a political strategy and a political machine to change the political landscape and beat labour . in 2022 I say I might do it but my condition be the ability to ensure that urgent action be proceed on a range of fundamentally critical issue include : the scandal of nuclear weapon infrastructure which be a dangerous disaster and a budget nightmare of hard - to - believe and highly classified proportion , and which have force large secret cannibalisation of other national security budget , building defence for natural and engineer pandemic , the scandal of MOD procurement , ignore despite ( even because of ) the big war in Europe since 1945 , AI and other technological capability , the broken core government institution include the dumpster fire of the Cabinet Office . " cumming end this section by say : " in all of these area I start crucial work in 2019 - 20 . Most of this have stop , slow , or reverse . " not all of that be pertinent and , particularly in that last line , we see Cummings ' s own agenda come through . none the less , I would say that point 1 , 3 and 5 be of the most interest to we here . let we start with point 1 and 3 , and return to point 5 later . cumming continue : " for example , in 2020 we agree ( via a secret ' tunnel ' process with the service , HMT and Cabinet Office , chair by the Cabinet Secretary and I , but keep secret from Wallace ) the first agree - by - everyone - to - be - honest MOD budget number since before 2010 , agree how to plug the massive black hole partly create by the nuclear enterprise disaster , agree a range of disaster that should be stop immediately ( e . g AJAX , Challenger ) , and agree a plan for procurement reform and new capability to build . ( also NB . the Army do not lobby for a big army — in the world that seem possible in 2020 of a serious plan and honest number and procurement reform etc , they prefer a small army with real capability to a ' big ' but increasingly Potemkin army . ) instead , the MoD have be allow to : pocket the money for the black hole , avoid stop the disaster , continue pump more money down the drain of legacy disaster create a new black hole , continue to allow critical part of the nuclear weapon infrastructure to rot create further massive secret budget nightmare as well as extremely serious physical danger ( cf . the recent near disaster with a submarine ) , continue as normal with disastrous procurement policy and practice , instead of take industrial capacity seriously , continue sacrifice critical new capability to fund legacy failure , shre the honest budget number and return to the fraudulent number , and " — most critically — " continue lie even more to mps and medium about it all . " let I repeat that I do not expect the Minister to comment on operational matter or give away classified information , but can we at least agree that these be serious allegation on both a specific and a more general matter ? specifically , can the Minister comment on the suggestion that the nuclear enterprise be cause the " large secret cannibalisation of other national security budget " ? to add a little bit of context , while it would be tempting to pass this off as the ranting of a jilt former senior adviser , this tally with a lot of what we have hear from recent National Audit Office report . the late report , receive just in December , reveal not only that the plan be " unaffordable " , that the MOD acknowledge this fact and that the funding gap could range between £ 7 . 6 billion and £ 29 . 8 billion , but that " nuclear and Royal Navy Costs show the great increase compare with 2022 " — the Navy of course be the service that be responsible for the continuous at - sea deterrent . furthermore , paragraph 16 of the report ' s key finding state clearly : " the creation of a ring fence around nuclear funding help protect the MoD ' s high defence priority but put great pressure on programme not include in it . " do the Minister acknowledge that the ringfence be put pressure on the rest of the conventional budget ? if so , do they think this be sustainable ? can they also tell the House what plan the Government have to mitigate the dead hand of ringfence ? there be an unfortunate logic to this nuclear ringfence within the Government ' s well - intentione ringfence around defence spending , be it at 2 % or 2 . 5 % . at this moment , every penny spend on the nuclear enterprise be a penny less spend on conventional asset , at a time when conventional threat be proliferate — a point I make in this very place only a few hour ago . Cummings add a dash of colour to the NAO ' s necessarily black and white finding about MOD mismanagement and dysfunction . take together , they be a damn indictment of where Defence find itself , and it be a shame that there be something of a taboo around discuss the contribution of the nuclear enterprise to this predicament . there be undoubtedly massive consequence and contingency that need to be develop surround as large a transition as the one the nuclear enterprise be undertake just now . we know this because his Majesty ' s Government already go through a similar transition from Resolution to Vanguard . because of " the Silent Deep " , the excellent and definitive official history of the Royal Navy submarine service , write by Peter Hennessy and James Jinks and release in 2015 — a book I recommend to member — we also know that extensive plan be make for bad - case scenario during that transition , include " move a Polaris submarine into Loch Long , where it would dive and remain in a static location on Quick Reaction Alert . " again , I be not ask the Minister to comment on operational issue , but a pattern be emerge of event and scenario that be consistent with report and paper write by nuclear analyst deal with the consequence of an age platform , against the backdrop of a defence budget put under pressure by an increasingly dire economic situation . whether it be the accident involve a Vanguard - class submarine , which we speak about in November — an accident that cumming attribute to poor infrastructure — or the pitiful sight of another Vanguard - class boat return to HMNB Clyde in September , look rather the bad for wear , only for the MOD to release a statement praise the crew for the long ssbn patrol , something do not quite add up . we sometimes stray too close to specific , so I will return to another aspect of the Cummings blog — an aspect that , if anything , be more worrying . it bring I to the parliamentary aspect of the title of this evening ' s debate : " since we leave , no . 10 have allow and even encourage all this . the cycle of disaster , cheat , lie and classify even more have continue through successive defence review ( e . g . the infamous ' Heywood wedge ' oversee by Heywood , Osborne and McPherson in 2015 ) . we draw a line under this systemic lying and delusion in 2020 . after I leave the line be immediately delete and business as usual have continue . the system be prepare to give Starmer the same horrific choice on above - STRAP3 yellow paper and continue the cycle of classify , punt , and lie with everything become ever more hollow - Potemkin as a result . " that be a lot , so let we focus on the idea that " the system be prepare to give Starmer the same … choice " . it be nothing more than an insinuation that senior member of the civil service and the armed force , accord to Cummings , seem to be plan to manipulate an incoming Prime Minister who , if recent poll be to be believe , will have a significant mandate . not only that , but it insinuate that they have use the protocol and security around the nuclear enterprise to manipulate the current Prime Minister and his predecessor , and have seek to remove any aspect of Cabinet decision make by exclude the then Defence Secretary from those discussion . as I say , my party do not agree with this , or with the nuclear weapon policy of this Government and previous government . regardless , this debate be not about that ; it be about the way in which his Majesty ' s Government implement their own declare policy . it be an unfortunate but inescapable reality of the nuclear enterprise that many of the discussion around it can not be hold in public — [ interruption . ] I will come to a conclusion . do not worry , the Minister will have his 10 minute — and then his photograph . the whole number of discussion must therefore be take in an increasingly tight series of concentric circle . the one fig leaf for our parliamentary democracy have always be that , at the end of it all , there be an element of democratic oversight , with the Prime Minister , the Defence Secretary and , on occasion , the Foreign Secretary have input into the nuclear strategy . will my hon . friend give way ? [ interruption . ] order . I be sorry to interrupt the hon . Lady , but I must say to other Members present that it be simply rude to talk . if whispering have to be do , then whisper . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate on a crucial issue . he talk about secrecy . do he know about the MOD ' s response to my recent question on safety at its nuclear basis ? the response confirm an alarming trend , with the number of incident at Faslane and Coulport jump by a third in 2022 , and the figure for the start of 2023 suggest further rise . do he agree that surely we have a right , as Members of Parliament , to know why safety record be not improve , as well as the nature of these incident and their effect on local resident and the environment ? I could not disagree with my hon . friend at all . of course , if any of the allegation make by Dominic Cummings , crucially those on senior Ministers be manipulate , be without merit , I would be glad to hear it . alternatively , those civil servant themselves should address they directly . let I bring my remark to a close with a final plea for the Minister — [ interruption . ] I know that member be here to have their picture take — it might be useful , as it might be the last parliamentary one they ever have . let I bring my remark to a close with a final plea for the Minister to stick to the substance of some basic question I be ask he . we know the opinion about the nuclear enterprise , so let I make this a bit easy and keep to just two question , if the Government do not want to address anything else that I have say . first , what be the Government do to ensure that the nuclear enterprise do not continue to exert undue pressure on the rest of the defence budget ? secondly , what safeguard be there to ensure that there remain a robust and genuine democratic oversight of all aspect of that enterprise ? I congratulate the hon . member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) on secure this important debate . it be true that we differ fundamentally on the issue of the deterrent . indeed , there be such passion and commitment to it among Conservative Members that we have a fantastic turnout this evening . the key theme of his speech be parliamentary scrutiny . he say that Parliament be sovereign everywhere , except in the nuclear deterrent . so let I remind he that when my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) become Prime Minister in 2016 , one of the first key vote in this House be on the renewal of Trident , and the majority be 355 in favour . to be clear , the UK ' s independent nuclear deterrent be a matter of the high priority for the Government , as be bear out by the support on our Back Benches today . I welcome the opportunity to set out our approach and policy in this area . our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent be the cornerstone of our national defence , and it be central to the Government ' s national security strategy . we place the utmost importance on the upkeep of all our nuclear defence infrastructure and its upgrade . his Majesty ' s naval base in Clyde have an establishment management plan with a 40 - year horizon that cover both the Faslane and Coulport site . the Government seek to be as transparent as possible about our nuclear defence infrastructure , within obvious national security constraint . rise — I will take one intervention from the hon . Lady . the Minister talk about transparency , but in 2017 the publication of the annual report of the Defence Nuclear Safety Regulator , the Ministry of Defence ' s internal watchdog , be stop under his government . why be that ? I have enjoy the fact that the hon . Lady have table a number of write question on these matter . I have always answer they as transparently as possible , set out the full fact , and will continue to do so . indeed , the very point of be here be that we be transparent in Parliament about our deterrent . we engage fully with Parliament , include the Defence and Scottish Affairs Committees , and we will continue to do so . we publish transparency datum for all major defence programme annually , include nuclear infrastructure , and , in line with industry good practice , our nuclear site have well - establish and transparent system for raise what be know in the industry as nuclear site event report , about which the hon . Lady have ask a number of write question . this open documentation of human error , procedural or documentation failing , and equipment issue provide the strong illustration of our commitment to transparency . more importantly , it foster a culture of continual improvement and enhance the rigour of our collective approach to safety . the safety of our nuclear defence infrastructure be paramount . our nuclear establishment fully adhere to current — order . I be sorry to interrupt the Minister . I have say this before but everybody seem to think it be funny to ignore it . it be fine to whisper if you need to communicate with one another , but it be simply rude to talk at the top of your voice , so that I can hear what people be say on the Back Benches but I can not hear the Minister . it be simply discourteous . I think they be very enthused , Madam Deputy Speaker . our nuclear establishment fully adhere to current regulatory and operational requirement . they be subject to a painstaking programme of maintenance by highly train expert . to ensure their reliability and safety far into the future , we be carry out a £ 1 . 4 billion upgrade of our nuclear facility at HMNB Clyde , which will ensure they be ready to receive the next generation dreadnought class of submarine . as colleague would expect , all these improvement be be make in line with current and foreseeable future regulatory requirement . to conclude , we can not look after our nuclear infrastructure without highly train people . to support our future submarine programme , we be invest around £ 200 million in world - class training for our current and future submariner . the Government have robust maintenance programme in place to deal with some of the challenge to non - nuclear infrastructure at HMNB Clyde . we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that our nuclear deterrent infrastructure both keep we safe and continue to adhere to the most stringent safety and regulatory standard . question put and agree to . House adjourn .