thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I start by congratulate you on your election , and on take up the Chair today ? may I also congratulate those on the Government Front Bench on take up the burden of ministerial office ? I wish they the good of success with that . it be with no little pride and a great sense of honour that I rise to give my maiden speech in this House . I be indebted to my constituent for send I to this place , and I will do my utmost to ensure that I repay the faith that they have put in I . it be a particular pleasure to follow so many excellent maiden speech over the last few day . I would like to commend the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) for his magnificent speech . his constituency be a place that I hold to dear to I , have train at the Royal Military Academy , and I wish he well in his stewardship of it . I think he will make a great contribution to this House . my constituency be Solihull West and Shirley . like many other , it be newly create follow the boundary review . while it be very much base on the old Solihull seat , the ward of Silhill and Elmdon have move into the new Meriden and Solihull East constituency . in return , Blythe ward have move into mine , join Olton , Lyndon , St Alphege and Shirleys West , South and East . therefore , I have not one but , technically , two predecessor . as I have allude to , Blythe ward be represent in the last Parliament by my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) . I be delighted to join he in this place , and I thank he for his support and help over the last few week . Julian Knight serve as the Member of Parliament for Solihull for nine year . he give particular service as Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I be sure that hon . member on all side of the House will join I in wish the whole Knight family the very good for the future . I also pay tribute to Julian ' s predecessor in this place . lorely Burt be still hold in great affection by resident , who remember she as a proactive constituency Member of Parliament . the late John Taylor , an avuncular man , be Solihull through and through , and he be fondly remember for his dedication to public service . his widow , Ann , be still a stalwart of the local community . before John come a fellow member of the Bar , Percy Grieve QC . famously , Percy once have the campaign slogan " grieve for Solihull " . I be delighted to tell the House that there be no need to grieve for Solihull any long . for those hon . and right hon . member who have not have the good fortune of visit Solihull West and Shirley , we may be compact , be a mere 40 sq km in area , but we pack a good punch . we be a diverse community , welcome to all . we benefit from our confluence of culture , which serve to create a great societal bond . together , we be great than the sum of our part . I be particularly proud that several thousand Hong Kong british national overseas have choose to make the area their home . the land now form Solihull West and Shirley be once cover by the ancient forest of Arden on the bank of the River Blythe . the early settlement in the area can be date back to the iron age . the density of the forest of Arden be such that even the Romans find it impenetrable , for throughout the roman occupation of these isle it be hold that no roman road pass through it . by the time of the Anglo - Saxons , the forest of Arden be part of the kingdom of Mercia . a clearing in the wood be establish , and the settlement of the manor of Ulverlei be found . it be here that the town of Shirley now sit , the name Shirley mean a bright clearing . the town of Solihull be think to take its name from the site of the stunning Arden church of Saint Alphege , which can be date back to the 13th century and be build on a mound of marl . this soily hill give rise to the name Solihull . of course , over the year the two town have change somewhat . they be a bustling centre for business and enterprise . we be the home of the Touchwood Centre , we have fantastic business such as Gymshark , and nearby Jaguar Land Rover remain a significant employer for many of my constituent , and a major economic driver for the local area . we be bless with good and outstanding school , provide our young people with the skill and opportunity to succeed in life . through the enterprise and leadership of the local council and the former West Midlands mayor , Andy Street , there have be an ambitious brownfield - first housing policy , deliver sustainable home for the future while protect the green belt . however , while many will associate Solihull West and Shirley with prosperity , there be pocket of deprivation , and I will therefore work tirelessly to ensure that those part of the constituency have the investment and opportunity to shine in the year to come . when you first enter this place , it be impossible not to be strike by the history that come before you . it make you reflect upon your own place in the annal of time . there have be many doctor who have enter this House before . there be several of we in this new intake alone . there have be a number of soldier who have stand up and serve again — indeed , there be almost a platoon of we enter the House for the first time . and as for lawyer — well , frankly , we could be an extension of the Inns of Court . however , it strike I the first time I enter this place that there be a chance that I might be the first Member to have do all three . and that rather flatter the ego . well , how wrong could I have be ? like the bubble burst in the back garden by my young son George , my illusion be quickly burst . a former member for Wimbledon , Charles Goodson - Wickes , have do all this before , and he add be chairman of the Countryside Alliance to boot . so , alas , my place in the history book will have to wait , for the time be . I do hope , however , that my professional experience will allow I to contribute effectively to this place on behalf of the people of Solihull West and Shirley — by be a critical friend on the issue of health and social care , so that we improve patient outcome ; by protect the rule of law and ensure access to justice ; and by uphold the military covenant , and continue the commendable work of the former member for Plymouth , Moor View , who be sadly no long in this place , and other to ensure that Britain be the good place in the world to be a veteran . I be painfully aware of the good fortune and opportunity I have have in life . I have benefit from a love family and be provide with the opportunity to fulfil my potential . sadly , that be not the case for all , so during the course of my time in this House I will seek to champion the early year agenda , so that we give young people the good chance in life . I will also seek to work with member from across the House to improve SEND provision in this country , so that we can move the conversation away from the level of disability and focus instead on the level of intervention , and ensure that every child can access the curriculum and achieve their potential , irrespective of the hurdle they face , because it be only by invest in our young people that we invest in our society . those of we who choose to enter the political arena have a duty to conduct ourselves with tolerance , dignity and respect . these be the value that the public rightly expect of we , and in this , my maiden speech , I make a promise to my constituent that these be the value that I will uphold for as long as they be gracious enough to send I to this place . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on be elevate to the position of First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means . those of we who know you be very pleased to see you in that position . I believe that you will be impartial and fair to everyone , as you always be . I look forward to you call I to speak and intervene in debate on many occasion . what a pleasure it be to see the Ministers in their place . the Secretary of State be here early , and the Minister of State , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , be here now ; I look forward to she sum up . the contribution of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , be also excellent . we have have wonderful maiden speech today from Conservative , liberal Democrat and Labour Members . the House have be enrich by the combination of contribution , include the intervention of the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , who will make her maiden speech at a later stage , as other member from Northern Ireland have . I especially thank the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , whose story about young carer resonate with I in particular , as I have have an interest in this area over the year . I think it resonate with everyone , to be truthful , but it resonate with I because I know young carer in my constituency . perhaps they be not the good student , but they have reason for it . the story that he tell may be 10 year old , but it be still relevant today , and I thank he for it . it be so important that we have debate on education . I have say in this place so many time that our young people truly be the future . to ensure that they have the tool need to succeed , we have to make difficult decision . education be devolve in Northern Ireland , so Ministers here do not have respond on it . they do not have to take any notice , and they do not need to say to themselves , " I must reply to the hon . member . " they might wish to say something , but they do not have any responsibility for our education . however , I want to give a Northern Ireland perspective , as I always do , and make two point . there be so many opportunity out there for young people . some may know what route they want to take in life , and for those who do not , there be other option . education may not be everybody ' s option , as the hon . member for Harlow say , but there be other thing that we need to do through education as well . minister will no doubt take that on board . whether in employment , further education or apprenticeship , there be opportunity for people to avail themselves of . furthermore , I be a big supporter of work experience and the prospect that it can bring for young people , especially in their education and future employment . it can give young people a taste for work and the possibility that it can lead they to . I try to offer it every year in my office , as I do when I be a Member of the Legislative Assembly and when I have my own business . two of my young staff member , one aged 29 and one aged 24 , both do their work experience in my office , one back in 2012 and the other in 2017 . we never realise that they would one day end up work for I . they go and do another job in between , but end up come back to I . whether they think I be a soft touch , or what it be , I be not quite sure . I be sure that they do not think that — the fact be that they love what we do in the office . like other elect to this House , my whole life have be about help people and make their life well . that be our job . it do not matter what political party we be in ; we have to try to do that in every part of life . year later , an opportunity come up for new staff , and know the skillset that those two people be able to bring through their work experience , they be able to come into the job like they have always be there . that stick in my mind . whether it be in aerospace ; healthcare ; science , technology , engineering and math ; government ; law ; medium ; trade such as mechanic or plumbing , and so on — the list be endless — it be no secret that more need to be do on funding for the devolved nation . it be reveal last year that Northern Ireland student number be reduce with funding cut . indeed , it have be indicate that the teaching grant for Northern Ireland ' s university will be reduce by 10 % to save around £ 14 million . it be also plan that funding for further education college would be cut by 4 % to save an additional £ 9 million . in the limited time that I have leave , I want briefly to discuss the opportunity that apprenticeship provide for young people . I mention early that not every person can have a civil service job or be in university or another form of education , but they can have opportunity out there in society . our university be incredible , but there be young people out there who do not see university as a path for they to go down . the number of people age 16 to 24 pursue an apprenticeship have be increase consistently since 2013 , showcase how the world of work can provide opportunity for young people who perhaps do not want to go to university . apprenticeship be provide in so many industry ; there be always something that can be find to give young people the good start on their employment path . the issue always lie with funding , and that be why it be so important that these issue be represent . Northern Ireland have suffer for too long from ill thought - out budget and lack of funding . it be time for our word to be listen to and for budget to be reconsider for the betterment of young people and their future . I believe , as everybody participate in this debate do , that our young people be the future , and I want they to get many more opportunity than I get . we be responsible for ensure that education and employment opportunity be available to all young people across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , because , as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , we be always well together . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and llongyfarchiadau , as we say in Wales . it be wonderful to have you preside over my maiden speech . I also thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ; it be a pleasure to follow he . I congratulate member on the amazing maiden speech we have hear this afternoon . I particularly enjoy the story of such an inspirational math teacher from my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I be really pleased to speak in this debate about education , which be so important . I be a governor at my son ' s primary school in Monmouthshire , Cross Ash , as well as at his secondary school . it be so important , as we come to the end of term , to say thank you to all the governor , teacher and headteacher at all the school in Monmouthshire . I think I be the first of the new Welsh mp to make their maiden speech , so I hope I do our country proud . I want to give one more congratulation , to Eluned Morgan MS , who have just be announce as our new Welsh Labour leader — another strong woman lead we in the Labour party . I have the honour to represent the beautiful , glorious county of Monmouthshire , and I be its first ever woman MP . as former chief executive of the Women ' s Equality Network Wales , where I campaign to get more woman into politic , I can finally boast that I be practise what I preach . I would like to pay tribute not to one predecessor or to two , but to three . David T . c . davy , the former Monmouth constituency MP , serve in four Parliaments . despite our fundamental political difference , we have one thing in common : our child go to the same fabulous school , Monmouth comprehensive . I say diolch yn fawr iawn to David for his dedication to public service and to his constituent . with the redrawn boundary , Monmouthshire have inherit part of the Newport East constituency : Caldicot , Magor , Rogiet and Undy . that mean that I owe a huge debt of thank to my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) for her legacy of service to those community , and for the exceptional generosity and support that she and her team have give I , both during the campaign and as I start my journey in this place . she be a brilliant MP , and if I become half the MP she be , I know I will be do exceptionally well . technically , I have a third predecessor , because Monmouthshire be a constituency many year ago , and its last MP be John Rolls , a local man who take his seat in 1880 . my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) mention Rolls - Royce early , and I will mention it too . Rolls be father not only to Charles Rolls of Rolls - Royce fame , but to Eleanor Shelley - Rolls , a founder of the Women ' s Engineering Society , an early campaigner for the electrification of Britain , and founder , 100 year ago , of the Atlanta Company , an engineering business with a real difference — it only employ woman . that combination of the technological cutting edge and socially progressive view still represent some of the good of Monmouthshire today . monmouthshire , particularly the Magor technology corridor , be in many way a 21st - century economy . we be also proud of our agricultural and farming tradition . some 80 % of the land in Monmouthshire be dedicate to farming , much of it carry out on small family farm . as a smallholder and a farmer ' s daughter , I know the joy and the huge challenge of rural life , as well as the vital role play in food production and environmental stewardship by our skilled farming family . monmouthshire be also a haven for tourist , home to the renowned Abergavenny food festival , the Wye valley national landscape , part of the Bannau Brycheiniog national park , and the Offa ' s Dyke long - distance path , not to mention our incredible historic border castle . I say to Members : please come and visit in the summer holiday . we have Raglan castle , Grosmont castle and many more . Monmouthshire have a proud history of fighting for democracy , as home to the Chartist movement of the 1830 . the Chartists make shocking and radical demand — how very dare they demand universal suffrage , secret ballot , salary for mps ? — so that ordinary people , not just the super - rich , could enter Parliament . those be now the pillar on which our democracy be base . the same spirit be alive and kick in a constituency where , in 2024 , I be proud to say turnout be 30 % high than the UK average . as a border county , Monmouthshire be instinctively a place of welcome . one of the early action in 2022 of our incoming labour - run county council , on which I have be proud to serve , be a formal application to become a county of sanctuary , welcome and celebrate the contribution of refugee and asylum seeker . perhaps it be not entirely a coincidence that many of our leader in Monmouthshire be woman , from our inspirational council leader — another female first — to the three woman who bring such tenacity and passion to run our chamber of commerce in Monmouth , Chepstow and Abergavenny . despite its great strength , Monmouthshire be , I be sorry to say , one of the most unequal county in Wales , with great wealth and great poverty exist side by side . as its MP , my first priority will be to support the Government ' s drive for economic growth and keep household bill down so that we reduce that inequality . talk of the drive for equality , I be only here because of the incredible woman who come before I and because of the support I have have from far too many individual woman to mention . I must shout out about the work of mentor programme such as the fabian Women ' s Network mentoring programme , the Labour Women ' s Network , and organisation such as Elect she and 50 : 50 Parliament . it be thank to they that we now have a House in which 40 % of mp be woman . we still have a long way to get to 50 % and true equality , so I pledge , as my second priority , to continue my work to ensure that we do get an equal Parliament . I will work with every single relevant Secretary of State and every parliamentarian across the House to ensure that we reduce all the inequality that woman face , from end the gender pay gap , to halve violence against woman and push forward the menopause mandate campaign . I will , of course , do all that I can to support Monmouthshire ' s fantastic charity and community group , from Cyfannol , a charity work to support those experience violence against woman , to reach out , a group support those with addiction . as a keen environmentalist , I will do everything I can to ensure we champion our environment and our river , include the River Wye and the River Usk , which flow through our beautiful county . the people of Monmouthshire have make it clear that they expect I to work cross - border and cross - party , with all the regulator , campaigner and action group , to bring our river back to full health . monmouthshire be back on the Westminster map for the first time in a century and a half . my determination be to make sure that the legacy of this Government for Monmouthshire be a more equal , more prosperous and greener future . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I warmly congratulate you on take up your position and warmly welcome the Secretary of State and her ministerial team to their position , too ? I express my deep condolence to my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) for his loss . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) on his sobering and powerful word , and other colleague across the Chamber on their speech today . I start by thank my family for their love and forbearance in recent month , my labour and other friend for their support , and the people of Rugby and the village for give I the honour of represent my constituency , which have be my home for the last 17 year . as the MP represent the only seat with a sport name after it , I hope that the House will indulge I the occasional rugby analogy . the rugby ball have be pass to I , notwithstanding a couple of minor maul during the election campaign , which I overcome . I want to pay tribute to Mark Pawsey , my predecessor , who run with the ball — literally and metaphorically — as a member of the Commons and Lords rugby team . Mark be an honourable , decent and kind man who serve the House with distinction , work tirelessly for his constituent and promote the game of rugby internationally . I also put on record my respect for the former Labour Member Andy King , whose distinguished service continue to inspire I . Rugby be a market town that have grow rapidly in recent year , surround by many small village — too numerous to mention one by one — set in the beautiful Warwickshire countryside . to the north of the constituency be Bulkington , which some say be one of the large village in England , although my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) may disagree . rugby ' s population balloon when the Oxford canal be construct in the 1770 , and the railway hastened industrialisation . I say to any Front Benchers listen that be on the west coast main line can very much hasten any ministerial visit that they may or may not want to make . [ interruption . ] no , stop at Rugby . the confluence of the M1 , the M6 and the M45 near Rugby place we firmly in the logistic golden triangle . notwithstanding this logistical good fortune , Rugby ' s potential lie primarily with its people . we have be bless , and still be , by people who innovate , challenge norm and think creatively . let we take sport : a plaque at Rugby School record that , in 1823 , the legendary local schoolboy William Webb Ellis , " with a fine disregard for the rule of football , take the ball in his arm and run with it " . although my connection with the game of rugby as a player be , I confess , somewhat underwhelming , I be proud to say that my dad , who be in the Gallery , play for England as a schoolboy . I will not join the House rugby team , but I might join a reform House rock band . I be acutely aware of how dangerous such statement can be , give that yesterday I wander innocently into a meeting of an all - party parliamentary group , and wander out slightly bewildered as vice - chair . as a classically train violinist and semi - retired rock musician , I be glad to represent a constituency fill to the brim with talented people . I will bang the drum and strum a chord for they . Rugby be the birthplace of the poet Rupert Brooke , whose word " that there ' s some corner of a foreign field that be forever England " epitomise a quiet , contemplative english patriotism . we have spawn famous rock band and musician , from Spacemen 3 to James Morrison . the creative art scene be thrive , with fantastic local band of all genre , an orchestra , dance school , Rugby theatre for amateur dramatic , gallery and much more . the sporting scene be vibrant , with several rugby football and football team , and a plethora of club in the town and village , where selfless volunteer offer pretty much every sport to the community . Rugby also have a proud track record of technological innovation . as hon . member get on a jet plane this week , they should think of Rugby , as the prototype of the first jet engine be build by Sir Frank Whittle at the British Thomson - Houston work in the town in 1937 . at the same site a decade later , a young hungarian refugee Dennis Gabor invent holography . I live in hope that holographic technology advance so far that , one day , mp can be beam into multiple location , to assist with our busy diary . until recently , dozen of giant mast form part of the world ' s most powerful radio transmitter . in 1927 , the site be instrumental in the first transatlantic telephone call . I believe in maintain the strong possible transatlantic alliance , so I be proud that Rugby play its part in deepen the tie between our two great nation . that pioneer industrial and scientific prowess persist . today , GE Vernova build world - lead advanced generator , include for Royal Navy vessel . at Ansty Park we have the Manufacturing Technology Centre , the London Electric Vehicle Company — which make the electric cab in which many of we newbie may have be move around in recent day — and FANUC UK . when I visit the mtc recently with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister and the West Midlands Mayor , it strike I that in order to unleash potential , we need partnership between business , the education and skill sector , local and national government , trade union and much more . we meet apprentice , beam with pride at their achievement and in anticipation of a bright future . we also need investment , most importantly in education . I be therefore delighted that the King ' s Speech include measure to raise standard in education , reform the apprenticeship levy and establish Skills England . have visit so many of our excellent state secondary school and the brilliant local college , I be confident that the people of our area will do the modern - day equivalent of invent a sport , design an engine or write an immortal poem . Rugby be a place that be at ease with itself . we be a very diverse town , and that be unequivocally a huge strength . we learn from one another , celebrate one another ' s tradition , break down barrier and focus on our common interest , something epitomise by the late Dr James Shera MBE , a mentor of mine who be sadly miss across the constituency . our charitable sector be strong . I will take the liberty of mention two local charity that inspire I : the Our Jay Foundation , which install defibrillator ; and Back and Forth Mens Mental Health , an issue close to my heart . the church , temple and faith group be at the heart of our community . the Street Pastors , who I shadow on a late night shift , show kindness in action — kindness be a much underrated virtue . the people of Rugby and the village be compassionate . they warmly welcome refugee from Ukraine . I pay tribute to the thriving Rugby Ukrainian community , its ukrainian member bravely forge their new life away from home , and all from the constituency who be help they . the Benn Partnership ' s " meet and eat " on Fridays , cater for by recent immigrant who not only cook the food but be learn English there , show our cohesion . our community invest in our young people , with fabulous youth centre , such as Hill Street and the Bradby Club . there be too many voluntary group and organisation for I to mention ; I simply salute they all . we thrive more when we work together and when the Government be truly an enabler . I want to put on record my appreciation as a councillor of the work of council officer and all public servant in serve our community in difficult circumstance . I campaign to become a labour candidate use the phrase " together we can " . I believe that be the only approach that will truly unleash the potential of the constituency . we now have a brilliantly lead Labour council , a Labour MP and a Labour Government commit to empower place with a strong vision . I will do all I can to bring together people in this constituency , urban or rural , factory or farm worker , whatever their background , to tackle the problem we face , whether the lack of infrastructure such as GP surgery , the need for more service at the superb Hospital of St Cross , insufficient affordable and social home , town centre regeneration or the need to make our street safe . in do this , I be inspire by the late , great Ann Clwyd , for whom I work , and the late , great Frank Field , with whom I work . the hon . member ' s experience of be a professor will be very helpful to this place . my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) have significant experience of three separate career , and I know he will be a strong advocate for his community . I applaud his focus on early year . I now come to the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I be a councillor in the neighbouring area before I come to this place , so I know your patch well . your experience as a teacher — [ interruption . ] the hon . member ' s experience as a teacher will be extremely helpful . he highlight the important issue of young carer . that be probably below the radar for many of we as constituency Members , and we all need to spend a bit more time focus on it to ensure that our community be support properly . I now come to the hon . member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) . I applaud her ambition to have 50 : 50 in this place . when I speak to my niece , and indeed my nephew , it be always a disappointment to we that while 51 % of our great country consist of woman , only about a third of my colleague be woman — although the proportion be probably great now — and , similarly , many boardroom throughout the country be still very male - dominate . the hon . member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) talk about great British Railways . as my in - law continually say , Derby remain the centre of the United Kingdom geographically , and I be surprised that neither of the new Derby Members mention that . as for the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) , his filipino heritage be a matter of passion and importance . when I be grow up and look at Parliament tv — well , I didn ' t really , but let we suppose that I do — this place do not reflect what I think the country do , and today it do . we be on a journey towards get well in that regard , and with his help and , hopefully , subsequent general election and by - election — and , also hopefully , with a few more member elect to my side — this place will become truly reflective . the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) speak about the Rolling Stones . music be a strong theme in Parliament ; he will figure that out in the bar and the all - party parliamentary group . his significant experience in local government will be very helpful . I offer the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) my sincere condolence about his mother . we realise that we be all human . share that personal background with this place humanise we and make sure that we all have " more in common " . all of we will have have a difficult general election , and I hope that the tone of politic return to what I think it be mean to be about 20 year ago , when politician be hold in high esteem . when I speak to individual member of my community , they still seem to consider politician to be public servant , but unfortunately social medium may not always reflect that and unfortunately you will all experience that ; so make sure you communicate with colleague , because they will all be go through it as well . the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) speak about Roald Dahl . I have the poem " if " on my wall at home , and I read it every single day . we have a really rich heritage in our great country , and when member talk about thing that inspire they , it will only inspire the next generation to be inquisitive . I hope that Stoke Mandeville will be improve , because it be a hospital that I will have to use , if and when necessary . I be conscious of the time and that the Minister will need to say a few word , so I be go to wrap up my comment on maiden speech . I know that I have not address every single one , but I will buy member a drink at the bar in the next few day , week and year . please do enjoy this job . it be the good job in the world , and you really be life - change . on that note , I welcome those on the Government Front Bench to what be a phenomenal brief , and I look forward to support they where they be change people ' s live for the well . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I warmly welcome you to your place in the Chair , and I warmly welcome the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) to his place . I also welcome the shadow Secretary of State , whom I previously shadow . I thank hon . member who have make contribution to this afternoon ' s debate , and pay tribute to those who have make their maiden speech today . they do themselves and their community proud . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) , the first Member of Filipino heritage to stand in this Chamber ; my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , the young Member of the House , who speak about his education , which be fairly recent ; my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , who have rightly be recognise in this place for his experience ; and my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) , who be forgive for all his rugby analogy after make an excellent speech . in this House , we come together with a common goal : to give every child the good start in life and equip they with an education that set they up for their life . we be the Department for opportunity at the Department for Education . we be bring education back to the centre of national life again , and we will work tirelessly to spread opportunity across our country , so that every child can thrive in a school with high and rise standard , and with a broad and rich curriculum that they can enjoy . like every parent , I want that for my child , and I be so pleased that we have a Labour Government who be ready to deliver it . I know what a brilliant school and education can mean . unlike my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , who make an excellent maiden speech today , I be not one of three darren , but I be a Sacred Heart girl , and I be not the only one in this Parliament . the parliamentary Labour party boast three alumnus of my old school , Sacred Heart catholic high school in Newcastle ; my hon . friend the Members for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) and for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) go there , too . my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , who make an outstanding maiden speech today , also attend a Sacred Heart school . it mean that there be now as many state - educate Sacred Heart girl in the House of Commons as there be old etonian boy — a tangible demonstration of the radical redistribution of opportunity that this Labour Government represent . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) give an account of her school trip to Parliament , which remind I of my own trip at the age of 17 , when I get in trouble for sit down on these Benches . clearly , such trip work to break down barrier to opportunity . the journey start in a child ' s early year , when their development and education begin . under successive conservative government , however , the attainment gap have widen . it be now some year since I serve on the Treasury Committee , but I still recall our inquiry into childcare as a part of national infrastructure . it be ground - breaking at the time and acknowledge that childcare be a fundamental service to our economy ; it be not a " nice to have " . it be fundamental to allow parent to work long hour to provide for their family , and it be fundamental to people ' s life chance . that be why this Government will deliver 3 , 000 more primary school - base nursery , make they widely accessible to parent and unlock opportunity for our young . in answer to the shadow Secretary of State ' s question early , that will be deliver in partnership with the sector to ensure that it meet the need of child and parent . we know that childcare need do not end when school start . when a child move up to primary school , in England , they will benefit from the roll - out of free breakfast club in every primary school in England . this will drive up attainment , improve behaviour and attendance , and enable parent to start work on time and support their family . it will set child up for the day and set they up to achieve , because it be as much about the club as it be about the breakfast . be in the classroom at the start of the day matter . school have a unique power to open up enormous opportunity for their pupil , with teacher and support staff who make a mark on every child ' s life . that include support child with special educational need and disability to flourish , but across that system we have to acknowledge the many challenge that we face . our building be substandard , our child be too often unhappy in school and our support staff feel underappreciated . we have to do well . so many member today have touch on the crisis in support for those with special educational need and disability , include my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who I know have work tirelessly on this issue for many year , and my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , who also speak passionately today . this government will help school to take a community - wide approach to SEND , improve their capability to accommodate pupil in mainstream setting and support they to flourish . last week , I visit the brilliant Croftway academy in Northumberland . it demonstrate how child of different ability and need can have the high standard of education in a mainstream setting , but we also need to ensure that special school can cater for those with the most complex need . for those struggle with the pressure of school life , this Labour Government will fund mental health support in every secondary school and in every community so that they can access support before problem escalate . I know that mental health be a priority for many in this place , as be powerfully describe by my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) in her speech . as shadow Schools Minister , I hear many story of decision be take about our school that just do not factor in the need of community . there be delay that turn to disappointment and frustration . I have see this in my own constituency with a lack of proper planning cause chaos to school admission in Gosforth this year , and countless story of failure be replicate across the country . so under Labour , school will need to co - operate with their local authority on school admission , on SEND inclusion and on place planning . no more of the chaos that we have see over the last few year . we want child to leave school with the skill and knowledge to set they up for life . that mean a broad and balanced curriculum that encourage they to try new thing , ask question , express themselves and be creative while also gain an excellent foundation in reading , writing and math . so we be establish an expert - lead review on the curriculum and will collaborate with the sector to allow school , teacher , parent and student to contribute and to plan ahead . on the question of remove exemption for private school , which have be raise , this change will enable vital investment in more teacher and improve nursery provision . I commend the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , a former math teacher . while we be delighted that he be in his place , we need to ensure that we have more math teacher in our state school . my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) speak about be a school governor , and we need more of those too . my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) give a powerful testimony to his dear late mother . we share his grief and we share her pride . ultimately , education be about prepare child and young people for life and give they the skill they need to get on , but these opportunity do not end at the school gate . for too long , post - 16 education have be poorly match to the ambition of young people and the need of business and employer , allow talent to go untapped and the economy to flag . that be why , early this week , we announce Skills England , a transformative new body to match post - 16 education to the need of the economy . by deploy skill investment strategically , we will bring employment opportunity to the part of the country where young people need a break and business need their skilled labour . my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) speak powerfully about his apprenticeship and his passion for ensure those opportunity for other . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) speak about the need to not have to leave the place you love to get on in life . my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) want to see a curriculum for life . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak have rightly be recognise , as I mention early . all of this work will require a partnership approach . none of the challenge we face can be address by one person or one body alone . that be why we be reset the relationship between Government and the sector . we be listen to professional . we be learn from good practice . we be work to improve standard across the board . it be also why I want to take this opportunity today to pay tribute to all those who work in our school , to thank they and to wish they a restful and restorative summer break . under this Labour Government , neither a person ' s place of birth nor the income of their parent will determine what they can achieve , how they find fulfilment , how they discover their skill and talent , or how they grow in confidence , because break down the barrier to opportunity be Labour ' s guide focus . it be the job of this Government , and it be one that we be commit to deliver . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider education and opportunity .