accord to keep Britain Tidy , litter and fly - tipping cost the country £ 1 million a year . do my hon . friend agree that that be money that could go to frontline service , so it be about time we take more stringent measure to change behaviour , along with some good enforcement ? as we have hear , the Bill be broad in scope . before I turn to the couple of amendment that I support , I want to recognise that the Bill ' s scope be evidence by the breadth and number of amendment and new clause . it be worth gently remind ourselves that a number of the measure be carry over from the Criminal Justice Bill , which sadly fall due to the general election almost a year ago , though there be obviously new clause and amendment . I hope the Minister be in listen mode , in change mode and be willing to work across the House , and I hope that she accept some of these amendment , because they would go a long way to far improve this legislation . I have read through the Bill , and much of it go right to the heart of the community we seek to serve and represent . there be topic in the Bill that regularly pop up in my inbox and I be sure into colleague ' inboxe as well . I want to cover two specific area . the first be fly - tipping and litter — an issue that I have speak about on many occasion in this Chamber since I be first elect . I support the amendment and new clause table by the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . in an intervention early , I touch on the cost of litter to the country . I think I say that it be £ 1 million , but I mean £ 1 billion ; I hope that can be firmly correct , because it be a big difference . the principle be the same — it be money that could go back into our community — but £ 1 billion spend on manage litter and fly - tipping be a huge amount of money that could otherwise buy a huge amount of service for constituency up and down the country . I want to start by align myself with , and commend the speech of , my hon . friend the Members for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) , for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) , for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . I be proud to stand alongside my colleague and be proud to listen to what they have to say today . and because of what they have to say today , I have less to say , which will allow more people to speak . I have be send here by my constituent to defend and further their right to safe and illegal abortion . my inbox have be inundate with message from constituent who be concern , and who want to be able to have safe and legal abortion . they want to be remove from the criminal justice system , as my hon . friend the Member for Gower say , because we have situation where clinically vulnerable woman , who have go through some of the bad experience that anybody can go through , will in some case be arrest straight from the hospital ward , hurry to cell and make to feel unmitigated level of shame and guilt , on top of the physical and mental trauma they have already experience .