Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Electric Vehicles what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support people to purchase electric vehicle . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support people to use electric vehicle . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support people to use electric vehicle . the Government support zero emission vehicle through taxation incentive , vehicle grant and funding infrastructure roll - out . in January , EV sale be 42 % high than in January 2024 . the recent National Audit Office report show that we be on track to meet the 300 , 000 public charging point need for expect demand in 2030 . Meur ras ha myttin da , Mr Speaker . electric vehicle demand be increase . the Government ' s commitment to ban the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicle by 2030 will have a significant impact on UK emission , but there remain many misunderstanding and myth about electric vehicle . they be safe and clean , and whole - life cost be significantly cheap . what can the Government do to increase consumer confidence by dispel some of the nonsense peddle by vested interest ? my hon . friend ' s expertise in the field be welcome . showcase the benefit of ev ownership and the growth of the public charging point network be vital to support the transition away from diesel and petrol - power car . as he will know , ev driver can save hundred of pound a year , and the average range of a new ev be now 236 mile . that be about two week ' drive for most people , and of course it be clean and greener . we be work closely with industry stakeholder to promote positive messaging around EVs and to improve consumer confidence . one of the challenge face people who be move to electric vehicle be the charge infrastructure , particularly in inner city . local authority have work to try to help that , but they have limit resource . my old team at Newham council do a deal with Uber to supply 400 on - street charge unit . do the Minister agree that that sort of partnership use public sector actor with private finance could help resolve the issue ? could the Government look at way they could work with local authority to secure those public - private partnership ? it be great to hear about Newham council ' s partnership that be develop under my hon . friend ' s leadership . the £ 381 million local ev infrastructure fund do just as he suggest , and be expect to deliver 100 , 000 charge point across the country , support those driver without off - street parking to switch to electric vehicle . the future of the car industry be important to West Brom , and that future lie in electric vehicle . one of the key issue on the demand side be that consumer do not have enough confidence in second - hand ev , despite manufacturer warranty and increasingly good battery life . what step be the Government take to improve consumer confidence when buy second - hand ev ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know that one in three use electric car be now under £ 20 , 000 , and datum suggest that owner should expect an ev to last just as long as an internal combustion engine car . the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe have develop a new global technical regulation , which would set standard for the lifespan of an ev battery and its minimum durability . we be analyse option for the implementation of such regulation in the UK . what the Minister say be all very well , but why do the Government not support my exemption from Value Added Tax ( Public Electric Vehicle Charging Points ) Bill ? as the hon . member know , matter relate to taxation be for the Treasury rather than the Department for Transport , but I be sure that the Chancellor will be look at the proposal that he bring forward . I welcome the increase uptake of electric vehicle . indeed we do still need to dispel many myth . in my constituency , charge infrastructure be still a big issue , and the distribution network struggle to speed up connect to the infrastructure that be need . will the Minister outline what work she will do with distribution network to increase the expansion of ev charging network ? as I be sure the hon . member know , there have be a rapid increase in the roll - out of electric charging point — it be up by more than 40 % last year . however , she be absolutely right that in some case that roll - out be difficult , because it be hold back by the availability of capacity on the network . that be precisely why we be work across Government , include with my colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , to unblock those thing , so that we can ensure that everyone can access the electric vehicle charging point that they need close to home . I thank the Minister for her answer . I be not a petrolhead , but I do love my diesel vehicle . those of we who live in the countryside understand that have a diesel vehicle be incredibly important , and there be no electric charging point across the rural countryside . there need to be more of those charge point on the high street and in the shopping centre , and there definitely need to be more of they in the countryside , since those of we who live there be be disadvantage by the electric car process as it go forward . what be be do to help the rural community — those of we who live in the countryside and those of we who represent they — take advantage of electric car as well ? the charging point be not there ; the system do not work . I think the hon . Gentleman have already be charge . the hon . Member make an important point : we need to ensure that there be access everywhere across our nation to electric vehicle charging point . in the autumn Budget , we commit £ 200 million to support the roll - out of charge infrastructure , which be bolster by over £ 6 billion in private investment that have be commit up to 2030 . the hon . member will be pleased to hear that there be over 73 , 000 public charging point in the UK , over 20 , 000 have be add in the past year , and there have be a 45 % increase in rural charging point over the past year . I call the shadow Minister . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . last year , just one in 10 consumer buy a new car choose battery electric , and in 2024 , the private market for battery electric be 20 % low than government intervention have try to manipulate it to be . without fleet sale — which we know be warp by huge tax incentive , promote they over practical vehicle choice — electric car demand just be not there . when will the Minister understand that people be cry out for a different way to defossilise and decarbonise their private vehicle ? battery electric just be not popular , so when will the Government stop try to tell people what they should want ? this be just a " Government know good " attitude at its very bad , be it not ? what an absolutely astonishing intervention by the shadow Minister . it be his Government who introduce the zero emission vehicle mandate , and we be not propose to change the trajectory that they introduce . I would gently remind he that many fleet vehicle be in fact private vehicle , as people choose to lease their vehicle or access they through a salary sacrifice scheme . last year , the UK be the large market in Europe — in fact , in the world — for ev vehicle . [ Official Report , 24 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 10wc . ] ( correction ) he be talk nonsense . the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders ' January report simply do not back up what the Minister have just say . I repeat that only one in 10 consumer — the people we all represent in this House — actively choose a battery electric vehicle . as the Minister know from her time on the Transport Select Committee when we look at the future of fuel , there be other technology out there . the Government like to say that they be technology - neutral , but the ZEV mandate ' s myopic focus on the tailpipe rather than whole system analysis effectively deny our innovator the room to defossilise and decarbonise in a manner that consumer want . surely the Minister see that , so instead of try to force people to buy battery electric , will the Government just get the bureaucracy out of the way and let our innovator innovate ? I wonder whether the shadow Minister have actually meet any vehicle manufacturer . if he have , he would know that they be invest incredibly heavily in the switch to battery electric vehicle . I and my ministerial colleague have meet manufacturer represent 95 % of the UK car market to understand their concern , and we will be work with they to ensure we support all UK vehicle manufacturer , who have — as they would put it — bet the house on the transition to electric vehicle . local Road Condition what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . we have empower local council to tackle the highway maintenance backlog , which be the result of a decade of under - investment by the previous Government . we have make an immediate start by provide an extra £ 500 million next year , represent an increase of nearly 40 % for most council . we will end the pothole plague on our road and ensure safe journey for everyone . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . I recently meet the road Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) — and National Highways about the need for investment in Seaton Burn and Moor Farm roundabout . those critical piece of infrastructure be already struggle with capacity and congestion . the local council and the North East combine authority have all highlight the fact that upgrade will be crucial for growth in the north - east . will the Secretary of State consider how this Government could support the project , and whether the scheme can test a new form of transport business case for project intend to deliver growth in all of our region ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for her question . I know she be a committed advocate for improvement to the road network in the north - east . I recognise the importance of Moor Farm and Seaton Burn roundabout to her local area , and I assure she that both be be consider as part of a pipeline of project for our future road investment strategy . a recent freedom of information request reveal that , of identify highway spend across the Bradford district by Bradford council over the past six year , £ 49 million be spend within Bradford city itself , but only £ 4 million be spend in Keighley and my wide constituency , despite street such as Elliott Street in Silsden be in a very poor state of repair . will the Secretary of State write to leader at Bradford council and remind they that highway spending need to be spend equally across the whole Bradford district , include place such as Keighley and Ilkley , and not just within Bradford city centre ? I be not the sort of Secretary of State who would sit at my desk in Whitehall and instruct local authority to spend certain amount of money on certain road . I expect local authority to take strategic decision base on where the investment be need , and I will leave it to local leader to make those decision . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . too many of Britain ' s road be in a shocking state of disrepair , as the Secretary of State say . in my constituency , labour - run Merton council have the bad road in London and the second bad in the country . some 40 % of our local road be rate as poor by her Department . although I welcome the come year ' s increase in funding , that be only a short - term measure and not base on need ; Merton and other have receive less than authority whose road be in a well condition . as Labour - run Merton have fail to maintain its road and have not be bail out by its friend in the Government , will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss what action can be take ? I would be very happy to meet the hon . gentleman to ensure that road in his constituency and across London be maintain to an adequate standard . the increase of £ 500 million in this year ' s allocation to highway maintenance represent an average 40 % increase for local authority . it will be make the difference , and I would be happy to discuss this issue with he far . local Bus Services what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . the Government be commit to deliver the well , more reliable bus service that passenger deserve . we have already make significant progress by introduce the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill to help local leader get the power they need , and by announce investment of over £ 1 billion to support and improve bus service . I thank the Minister for that answer . the cost of transport be a huge cost of live pressure for child and young people in my constituency who be try to access education and social and leisure opportunity . what assurance can the Minister give I that the bus Bill will end a system in which bus service be control by ideology , and make it a system that put they at the service of local people ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . the Government know how important local bus service be in provide access to education and allow young people to get around . empower local leader to improve service be at the heart of our reform , include through the introduction of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , so that bus service deliver for hard - work family and community throughout the country . my constituent in Worsley and Eccles face high level of congestion on our road , especially during their rush - hour commute . we benefit from Greater Manchester ' s Bee network , but it only take a temporary set of traffic light , roadwork or an accident to back thing up . will the Minister outline what step be be take to give the necessary power and encouragement to our local community and decision maker to create join - up public and private transport network that will alleviate congestion ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight this issue and will know that this Government be act quickly to respond to his concern . as outline in the " English Devolution " White Paper , we will empower strategic authority to play a great role in co - ordinate their local road network . that include remove unnecessary Secretary of State consent requirement for certain local highway decision , potentially include lane rental scheme , which will speed up decision making . so many people who live in rural town across my constituency rely on bus service to go to work , school and hospital appointment , but too often bus be run late or never turn up at all . last week I meet local resident Nicola from Emley who tell I that when she be unable to drive it be nearly impossible for her daughter Olivia to attend after - school club . will the Minister advise I on how this Government will hold fail bus company to account and will help improve service in our local area ? my hon . friend be my constituency neighbour and I understand the challenge her constituent face . we know that local bus service be not currently deliver for people around the country . we be commit to change that , and our bus service Bill will give local leader the tool they need to deliver reliable bus service that truly meet the need of local community , include in rural area . I know that the Minister be s truly passionate advocate for bus service , but if he be privileged enough to live in the beautiful village of Hixon in my constituency and want to get to the surgery in Great Haywood , he would have to travel into Stafford on a bus and then on a bus from Stafford to Great Hayward . will he update the House on what additional help and support Staffordshire county council might look forward to receive so that Hixon resident be able to get directly to Great Hayward ? the Government be determined to empower local leader to make decision about their local bus service . they can choose from a variety of option in that toolkit , include franchising , which be now open to all local transport authority . we be lift the ban on municipal bus company and improve enhanced partnership . it be for local leader to make those decision , and we be empower they to do so . rural community such as mine rely on bus service as a vital lifeline , but too often these service be limited and infrequent . private operator dominate the market in my area , yet there be no minimum service requirement to ensure that people can get to work , school or medical appointment . will the Government guarantee a minimum level of service so that rural community be not leave strand ? the hon . member will be pleased to know that the bus service Bill include the socially necessary local service measure . under the new measure , local transport authority operate under an enhance partnership will need to identify local service which they consider socially necessary and put in place requirement that must be follow before such service can be change or cancel . they will also need to consider the alternative option that be available . last week I hold a two - hour question and answer session with Disability Action Yorkshire . one issue that come up be the inability of disabled people to use their bus pass before 9 o ' clock , limit they in get to work , access leisure opportunity or see family and friend . do the Minister agree that one of the good way to improve local bus access would be to be allow disabled people to use their pass before 9 o ' clock ? the Government already invest £ 700 million in the national concessionary travel scheme in order to fund those bus pass , and at the last Budget we announce over £ 1 billion of funding to support bus . we change the formula for BSIP — bus service improvement plan — away from the competitive " Hunger Games " style contest under the previous Government . the hon . member ' s local area will have receive funding and it be able to use that funding to go above and beyond what be set on a national level . open Access Railway Services what step she be take to maintain open access railway service . open access operator will continue to have a place in our reform great british railway . we have support new proposal from Wrexham , Shropshire and Midlands Railway , and exist track access right will be honour . open access can provide benefit , but it must not come at the cost of well service for passenger and well value for taxpayer . in her recent letter to the Office of Rail and Road , the Transport Secretary appear to push against open access agreement , yet last week , as she have mention today , the Government signal their intention to support the request to license the Wrexham to London Euston line , which will come through Aldridge in my constituency . will the Transport Secretary clarify her position on the Wrexham to Euston line , particularly in regard to the inclusion of Aldridge train station ? as she will be aware , thank to the Labour mayor , the funding for that station have be raid and put into his pet project . I appreciate the right hon . Lady ' s commitment to make the case for a new station at Aldridge , but I gently point out to she that in the 14 year of her party ' s Government , include her own stint in the Department for Transport , the station fail to materialise . the West Midlands combine authority have have to prioritise the delivery of scheme that be in construction . that seem to I to be a reasonable approach , but I appreciate that she will continue to make the case for her own station . open access operator Grand Central already run five service daily from Sunderland to London King ' s Cross through my constituency , but unfortunately they currently do not stop . my constituent have endure year of poor rail service from Northern Rail , with just one overcrowded two - carriage train an hour , which be often cancel or delay . while I welcome this Government ' s investment in 450 new train for Northern Rail , we need some immediate solution . will the Minister urge the ORR to approve the application from Grand Central to allow these train to stop at station in my Easington constituency ? open access operator currently account for 1 % of our railway , and they do not always have the same public service obligation as other train operating company . we have always support open access operator where they genuinely add value and do not divert revenue away from exist operator , all of which be support by the taxpayer in some form . I would add that we need to make good use of constrain capacity on the rail network . ensure that the railway can recover from problem on the railway be also important to I . talk of access , several year ago , Greater Anglia demolish half of Wickford station to extend some of the platform . however , after nearly three year of endless excuse , miss deadline and , frankly , broken promise , it still have not rebuild it . I regret to say that I have lose all confidence in the senior management of Greater Anglia . if they tell I today be a Thursday , I would double - check it . can I go over their head and ask the Secretary of State for a personal meeting with the Rail Minister so that we can finally get Wickford station rebuild , despite Greater Anglia , rather than because of it ? I will happily ask the Rail Minister to meet the right hon . gentleman to ensure that progress can be make at Wickford . I know that my right hon . friend will be delight by the news that go - op will be operate a new mandate for return service between Swindon and Taunton . do she agree that this demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to improve connectivity across the country ? can we hope for such improvement to connectivity in my little corner of the world in Berkshire ? I be pleased that my hon . friend have raise this proposal , which demonstrate the pragmatic approach we take to open access operator . go - op will be the first co - operatively own train service run anywhere in the UK . if there be any investor out there think about invest in that service , I encourage they to look closely at it . Rolling Stock : Purchasing Models what assessment she have make of the potential merit of use alternative funding model to purchase roll stock . as part of our reform to the railway , we have set out that we will continue to lease rolling stock when we take contract into public ownership , but we will apply a single direct mind approach to eliminate barrier to share roll stock well across the network . we will consider the good funding and financing structure for future order and contract in partnership with private capital . at the moment , the rolling stock leasing company take more than £ 1 billion of profit out of the railway . a substantial amount of that could be reinveste in improve the railway network . with the Bill for Great British Railways due to come to Parliament soon , will the Secretary of State look seriously at alternative financing model such as EUROFIMA — the european company for the financing of railroad roll stock — or even a publicly own rosco that could deliver roll stock at a considerably low price ? indeed , will she be more socialist and more ambitious with the Bill ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that I do not lack any ambition when it come to great British Railways . it would cost billion in taxpayer ' money to buy exist rolling stock , at a time when there be many pressure on the public purse . my official have be engage regularly with EUROFIMA to consider the potential for UK membership and how EUROFIMA finance could be deploy in the UK . East Coast Main Line what step her Department be take to improve reliability on the east coast main line . the Department recognise the critical importance of the east coast main line and have invest £ 4 billion in a combination of infrastructure enhancement and roll stock upgrade that will help to deliver journey time , reliability and capacity improvement . the full benefit of this investment will be feel with the introduction of a revise timetable in December 2025 . the Department continue to work closely with Network Rail to explore opportunity to improve performance and resilience . my constituent have raise concern about the reliability of service on the east coast main line , with one constituent receive delay repay compensation for five out of six journey he take over a two - month period . I welcome the correspondence I have have with the Rail Minister on the action that the Department for Transport be take with rail partner , include through the east coast digital programme . will my hon . friend confirm that the first train utilise new digital signal technology will be on the track by the end of the year ? when do she expect passenger to feel the full benefit of this welcome upgrade ? the east coast digital programme be deliver digital signal on 100 mile of the east coast main line . the technology will deliver an inherent improvement to service reliability and uplift performance and capacity across the line , include for my hon . friend ' s constituent . the first train be forecast to start run under digital signal from early 2026 . the number of service run under digital signalling will increase until the full programme be expect to be complete in the early 2030 . cost of Rail Services what step she be take to reduce the cost of rail service . what step she be take to reduce the cost of rail service . it be our ambition through public ownership to deliver a more affordable railway . this year ' s fare increase of 4 . 6 % be the low absolute increase in three year . we be committed to reform the overcomplicate fare system and expand ticket innovation like pay - as - you - go in urban area across the country . when the Secretary of State finally step in and knock head together and we get our Azuma train to Grimsby via Market Rasen , will she instruct the railway company to name the locomotive Margaret Thatcher to remind we all that the good way to reduce the cost of rail service be to end restrictive trade union practice ? I hate to disappoint the Father of the House , but I be afraid that I will not be make such a commitment today . the british people pay some of the high rail fare in Europe . however , the Government seem to prioritise the size of the socialist state , by kowtow to trade union with radical public pay rise and nationalisation plan . will the Secretary of State instead please focus on improve the lot of commuter — particularly Romford ' s hard - work commuter — and take real step to reduce rail fare and improve railway service ? I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman have the gall to raise this issue when , under his party ' s Government , fare rise at around twice the speed of wage . I also point out that since 2020 , train operating company have pay out nearly £ 1 billion to their parent company , sign off by Conservative Ministers in the previous Government . if the hon . Gentleman want to talk about cost and value for money on the railway , I suggest he start by look in the mirror . it be , in fact , a Conservative Secretary of State who force fare rise on Transport for London in exchange for covid emergency funding . what step will my right hon . friend take to put TfL on a well footing in the future , include back great project such as the one in my constituency to upgrade and provide step - free access at one of the busy station in the country at South Kensington ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : in the middle of a global pandemic , the Conservatives be still obsess with settle old political score over fare in London , rather than do right by the capital . I vividly remember a meeting with the then Secretary of State to discuss how we could keep service safely run , which end with he tell I , " this would have be so much easy if you hadn ' t freeze fare . " unlike the Conservatives , this Government will always do right by the capital , as well as the rest of the country . can I ask that this UK Government do not follow the approach take by the Scottish Government on public ownership ? ScotRail fare be set for another inflation - bust increase in April , follow an 8 . 7 % hike last year and the reintroduction of peak fare in September . do the Secretary of State agree that the SNP should be make rail more affordable , instead of hit passenger with painful fare hike time and again ? the increase be bad for Scotland ' s rail passenger , bad for our economy and bad for the environment . I assure my hon . friend that we will bring the train operate company into public ownership properly , and that we will not repeat the mistake we have see in Scotland . I call the shadow Minister . I be very interested by that last answer , because the Government do think that nationalisation will reduce the cost of rail travel . what lesson have the Secretary of State learn from the SNP ' s nationalisation of ScotRail ? we will be increase value for money in the way we operate our railway . to start off with , we will be get rid of up to £ 100 million a year in management fee that we be currently pay out of the public purse to the train operating company . we be determined to drive up performance on our railway and give well value for money to the taxpayer . the late experiment in nationalisation have show in just two year that state inefficiency have push up cost — not reduce they — by £ 600 million , force fare to rise , alongside an increase in delay , a slump in customer satisfaction , and cut , instead of improvement , to service . the data show that in England , Greater Anglia have be the well perform operator , save money for taxpayer while serve passenger with modern , punctual train . the Secretary of State be about to launch a public consultation on nationalisation — one that have be as delay as ScotRail train . I be tell that even the plan to publish it today have be far delay , with the excuse of no . 10 on the line . if the Secretary of State consult , she have to be prepared to listen . will she now listen to the deep concern of the rail industry , and not just the ever - generous union , and avoid another disastrous nationalisation ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that the consultation on establish Great British Railways be come soon , and I look forward to discuss it far with he . I be confident that by bring together the management of track and train , we can strip out duplication in our railway , provide well value for the taxpayer and ensure that train be turn up on time , with reliable and punctual service . that be what we will deliver . Transport Infrastructure : Rural Communities what step her Department be take to improve transport infrastructure in rural community . the Government recognise the importance of high quality transport infrastructure as part of a well - function , integrate transport network . we be support all local authority to improve transport infrastructure , include through our £ 1 . 6 billion investment in local road . I know that my hon . friend ' s road be litter with pothole , which be why they be get a share of our 50 % uplift . Norfolk ' s economy , to fire on all cylinder , need a decent rural road network . the Thickthorn junction in my constituency be outdated and urgently need upgrade to support growth and unlock new home . will the Minister back the project and visit to see at first hand why the Government should put Norfolk at the heart of our investment plan ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for the need of his rural constituent . the central mission of this Government be to support economic growth , and this be one of a number of road investment under consideration . in the past week , we have approve upgrade to four major road project across England . on the specific scheme , I hope to be able to say more in the come week , and perhaps I will be visit his constituency . Sleaford have a beautiful grade II list railway station in popular use . however , it be very difficult for those with disability to access the second platform because there be no lift . I have long campaign for a lift , and I work with East Midlands Railway , with the financial support of the previous Government , on a feasibility study for a lift that be in keep with the heritage station . will this Government back access for my constituent and access for people to come and visit our beautiful town ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question . improve accessibility in our railway station be incredibly important . I be sure that the Rail Minister will be happy to write to she on the specific of her station and to consider the proposal that have be make . Road Safety what step she be take to improve road safety . the last Labour Government halve the number of people kill on our road each year . under the conservative that progress stall , with only a 12 % reduction between 2010 and 2023 , when almost 30 , 000 people be kill or seriously injure on our road . that be about one casualty every 18 minute . that shocking statistic be why improve road safety be one of my key priority . we be develop our road safety strategy , the first in a decade , and will set out more detail in due course . I thank the Minister for that answer . nearly 400 of my constituent have fill in my survey about the dangerously short slip road on the A34 at East Ilsley and Beedon . they include Nick , who never use the Beedon junction when his young family be in the car and be even consider move house because he believe it be a real risk to their life . will the Minister meet I and raise the issue of dangerous junction with National Highways , so we can make they safe for local people ? I commend my hon . friend for her support for safe road . National Highways have undertake several safety study on section of the A34 . I be aware that improvement work take place on the East Ilsley slip in 2019 , include work to widen , resurface and add new road marking . it continue to review concern about safety on the road and be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the issue far and plan a site visit . I will , of course , keep up to date with progress . bridgwater railway station have a bus stop that have remain unusable since its construction due to road layout and safety issue . despite this be a relatively small fix , Somerset council have yet to take action . what additional support can the Government provide to ensure that bus can stop at the station safely and improve connectivity in my constituency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that question . it do sound like it be a matter for his local council , but I be sure that my official would be very happy to work with it to provide any advice and support it may need to work out how to provide a safe service in that area . rail passenger what step she be take to improve passenger rail performance . improve performance be a top priority for this government as we establish great British Railways . we regularly meet manage director of train operating company and their Network Rail counterpart to demand action to raise standard . great British Railways will reunite the management of track and train , and will make join - up , whole - system decision that will improve performance for the benefit of passenger and taxpayer alike . the TransPennine route upgrade be the big rail infrastructure project in the country , and my constituency be at the centre of it . one of the main benefit for passenger will be fast and more reliable train . will the Secretary of State update the House on the project , and tell we what step be be take to ensure that local community such as those in Huddersfield benefit fully from improvement in rail performance ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the importance of this investment to her constituency . the rail upgrade will double the number of seat between Huddersfield and Manchester , and will increase the number by 30 % between Huddersfield and Leeds . service reliability will also improve . moreover , 60 % of the workforce will be employ within 25 mile of the route and 66 % of spending will be within the local supply chain , which will lead to local growth and job — so it be good news all round . I want to improve rail performance in my constituency , and the extension of the Borders Railway from Tweedbank to Hawick and Newcastleton and on to Carlisle have strong local and cross - party support . have the UK Government ' s share of the funding for the feasibility study — secure as part of the Borderlands growth deal — be confirm , and will it be release to Scottish Borders Council imminently ? I understand that official in my Department be speak to scottish colleague , and I hope to be in a position to say more about that soon , potentially as part of the spending review . Regional Airports what discussion she be have with airline to encourage the operation of flight from airport outside London and the south - east . this Government be commit to growth , which regional airport support by serve their local community , create job , and act as gateway to international opportunity . heathrow expansion could give more region access to a big international network through their local airport , thus boost productivity far . in my constituency , the large sectoral employer be logistic . tamworth sit within the " golden triangle " for distribution , centre around the european rail link . within this hub be East Midlands airport , which handle approximately 440 , 000 tonne of freight each year , second only to Heathrow . what step will the Minister take to fuel economic growth across the west midland , review capacity at our regional airport , include Birmingham ? as my hon . Friend say , freight be hugely important for growth . that be why the Chancellor recently announce plan to build a new advanced manufacturing and logistic park at East Midlands airport , which will unlock up to £ 1 billion of investment and 2 , 000 job on the site . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . we be get on with deliver this Government ' s plan for change . last week I approve upgrade to four major road project across Wiltshire , Leeds , Essex and Buckinghamshire . that £ 90 million investment will reduce journey time , ease congestion and improve safety . it be on the back of driver ' switch to electric car in record - break number , with sale in January more than 40 % high than those last year and nearly 20 , 000 public charge point add in 2024 alone . we be back , with a £ 205 million investment , the west midland metro extension , which will take tram from Wednesbury to Brierley Hill . we be cut journey time and improve connection for town with poor public transport link , and yesterday we announce a £ 300 million investment to get Britain walk and cycling , with hundred of new footpath and cycle lane . we be deliver the basic of a well transport system , which mean improve the everyday journey that drive economic growth and make people ' s live well . I meet key scottish stakeholder recently to discuss proposal to bring to the Glasgow city region a metro scheme interconnect more and more part of our region , include the town and village in my constituency . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital for the Scottish Government to show the same ambition for growth in Scotland as the UK Government have show in their recent transport announcement , and will she work with the Scottish Government to ensure that this project maximise investment and opportunity for my constituent ? I will always work closely with colleague in the Scottish Government to ensure that this Government ' s ambition for transport reach all corner of the UK . the Scottish Government have have a record settlement through the Budget , so I look forward to hear more about plan for a great Glasgow metro scheme as they develop . I call the shadow Secretary of State . heathrow airport be already the large single - site payer of business rate in the country , pay approximately £ 124 million annually . to fund the Chancellor ' s next spending spree , the Valuation Office Agency be currently revaluate airport in England and Wales , and any significant increase could impact Heathrow ' s ability to fund airport expansion and a third runway . be the Secretary of State aware of the late estimate of how much Heathrow ' s business rate will increase by ? this be a policy cook up by the Valuation Office Agency under his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs by the last government . we have engage with airport on this matter and ask they to continue to engage with the Valuation Office Agency . I notice that the Minister do not answer my question , so I will assist he . the estimate be that Heathrow ' s rate bill will increase fivefold to £ 600 million annually , put substantial additional pressure on Heathrow ' s finance . in the light of that , will the Minister confirm the long - stand policy that the full cost of a third runway , include related work such as relocate , tunnel or bridge over the M25 , will be fully fund by the private sector and not by the taxpayer ? the airport national policy statement from 2018 , which be two government ago , make it clear that any proposal — we have not have a proposal come forward — should treat surface access appropriately , and that should be fund by the private sector where possible . resident in Ashbourne have be leave feel hopeless and frustrated after wait decade for a relief road . More than 700 heavy good vehicle pass through the town each day , endanger local pedestrian , increase pollution and cause significant congestion . will the Minister meet I regard the need to install a relief road for Ashbourne ? as my hon . friend know , deliver a transport system that meet local , regional and national need will play a vital role in deliver the mission of this Government . I encourage he to continue to work with Derbyshire county council , which will hopefully be under new leadership in May , and with our excellent East Midlands Mayor , Claire Ward , to advocate for his constituent ' priority . I would , of course , be happy to meet he to discuss this . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in her previous role as deputy London Mayor for transport , the Secretary of State state she be " clear " in her opposition to a third runway at Heathrow . be she still clear in her opposition , and if not , what have change her mind ? when I be deputy Mayor for transport in London , I be speak in that capacity at that time , reflect the view of the Mayor of London and City Hall on a previous Heathrow expansion scheme . as Secretary of State , I will consider any airport expansion proposal on their merit and in line with exist process . balance economic growth and our environmental obligation be central to all my work in this role , and I will always act in the national interest , do what be right for the country as a whole . at least nine major road in my constituency will be affect by roadwork in the next week . seemingly endless utility work and roadwork be a crucial issue for my constituent , who have tell I it make they late for work , school pick - up and even hospital appointment . can the Minister tell I what step her Department be take to improve the situation for my constituent ? this Government stand with local road user who be frustrate by roadwork that cause unnecessary disruption . while council and utility company should always work together to minimise the impact of their work , we be also take action : we be double fix penalty notice for utility company that do not comply with certain requirement for carry out their street work , and we have extend overrun charge of up to £ 10 , 000 per day to weekend and bank holiday , to prevent overrunning roadwork . open access operator such as Hull train offer excellent , cheap , unsubsidised inter - city service to location across the north , so why be minister try to block their expansion and stifle growth ? there be a balance to be strike here . I welcome service such as those that run to hull ; they open up new route and new connectivity . I have , however , ask the Office of Rail and Road to consider the balance in the revenue that they abstract from public operator , and to ensure that we be use constrained capacity in our network appropriately to deliver excellent service for passenger . the RAC recently report that pothole in Derbyshire be the bad in the country , but rather than welcome over £ 75 million of funding for the east midland , the Conservatives at Derbyshire county council claim that this be not new money and that it be bind up in red tape . do the Minister agree that these be just more excuse , and that the Conservative - control Derbyshire county council should stop complain and start fix our road ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the state of our road be a daily reminder of Tory failure , which be why this Government have provide record funding to fix they . derbyshire be get its share of the extra £ 20 million go to the East Midlands combine authority . we expect the council to get on with the job and to tell local resident how it intend to use the extra taxpayer ' money that it be get . I call Dave Doogan — not here . my constituent Kevin Stephenson and many other people in Hartlepool have complain about the shocking underperformance of Northern Rail . he have witness passenger be ask to wait in toilet in order to allow more people on to train . service be frequently cancel , promise of additional carriage have not materialise , and resident be regularly leave strand at station . will the Minister work with I to fix the unacceptable level of service ? minister and official be in regular contact with Northern Rail . we recognise that its performance be totally unacceptable , and with the challenge that Northern Rail face , it will take time to become a stable and reliable service . I would be absolutely delighted to work with my hon . friend . as you will know , Mr Speaker , I rarely , if ever , agree with the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan . the Secretary of State have set out the position in relation to her change of heart , but will she commit to ensure that any proposal for a third runway at Heathrow will have a full impact assessment before it be approve or deny ? I fully support the Chancellor ' s call for fresh proposal for Heathrow . some of our airport in the south - east be run at or near capacity . we can not pretend that that be not the case , and I be not prepared to be part of a Government who duck the difficult decision . as the person who may ultimately be take planning decision on any application for a third runway at Heathrow , I will judge any scheme on its merit . we will update the airport national policy statement , and any expansion scheme must meet our legal and environmental obligation . as the Secretary of State know , the south - west peninsula already contribute significantly to the UK economy , include through life science and climate tech . we be , however , hold back from reach our full potential by under - investment in transport connectivity , which be make bad by upcoming work at Old Oak Common and the continue bottleneck on the A303 . will the Minister commit to develop a strategic investment plan to ensure that the south - west peninsula have the transport infrastructure it need to unlock further growth ? as I have say before , growth be the priority mission of this Government , and we be commit to empower local leader . a regional transport strategy , and a strategic investment plan for the south - west , have be develop by the sub - national transport body Peninsula Transport . as well as be home to both GCHQ and NATO ' s Allied Rapid Reaction Corps headquarters , Gloucestershire have the large concentration of cyber - tech business and aerospace engineering firm outside London , but the county , and particularly Tewkesbury , be subject to slow , unreliable and grossly outdated rail service . it be also underserve by road transport link eastward . the Government recently announce that they will develop a silicon valley between Milton Keynes — Order . we be on topical — I think you need an Adjournment debate . who be go to answer that ? I will certainly meet the hon . gentleman to discuss this matter . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . department for Transport analysis carry out in 2017 show that expand Heathrow would displace 27 , 000 job from the UK region to London by 2050 , with 17 million few passenger use non - London airport . do the Minister hope that the same analysis , if do now , would come to a different conclusion in order to ensure that UK economic growth really do benefit all UK region and not just west London ? the Government be commit to regional airport . I be proudly wear my " yes to r2 " badge from when we build a second runway at Manchester airport in 2001 . the position be quite the opposite of what my hon . friend describe : under the 2018 airport national policy statement , the number of connection from Heathrow to regional airport be expect to increase if Heathrow expand , increase productivity in those region . northern train run one train per day on the Gainsborough - Brigg - Cleethorpes line . do the Secretary of State agree that one train per day be pretty pointless ? will she arrange a meeting with the appropriate Minister for I and other affected mp , so that we can discuss how to secure a well service ? reliable , frequent train service be important , no matter where in the country we live . I will ask the Rail Minister for a meeting . do the Minister agree that achieve economic growth require sustained investment in our transport infra - structure ? would she be willing to visit Glasgow International airport to learn more about how transport infrastructure can assist with the further development of the propose investment zone in my constituency ? I agree that investment in our transport infrastructure across the country be essential to our growth mission . I be aware of the investment zone bid involve Glasgow airport , and the aviation Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , would be delighted to visit in the near future . I do not know whether the Secretary of State be aware that large swathe of British Airways flight between London and Scotland be automatically cancel when there be serious weather or technical issue at Heathrow . British Airways say that if the Secretary of State ' s official , the Civil Aviation Authority , Heathrow and airline work together , the number of cancellation could be minimise , even in those circumstance , so will she facilitate those discussion ? the right hon . member raise an important point . the resilience of the UK aviation sector be important , and key to its success , so we will facilitate any discussion to make sure we be always on an improvement trajectory . access for disabled people be a condition of open up planning for the York Central development . however , I hear that the condition will be bypass , and that planning will go ahead without disabled access be put in place . that clearly impede disabled people . can we ensure that difficult engineering work be undertake before planning permission be grant ? the accessibility of all mode of transport be extremely important to this Government . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss this matter far . despite my constituency be only a stone ' s throw from Heathrow , we have no direct rail link to the country ' s busy airport . last week , Heathrow Southern Railway submit a business case to the Government . when will the Government consider it , to ensure that my constituent can get a train to Heathrow ? alongside the question of how many plane should take off and land at Heathrow , there be the critical question of how people get to the airport . the hon . Gentleman make an important point , and I would be happy to discuss it far with he . learner driver in Basingstoke have be leave strand for month — in some case , year — unable to book a driving test . that be affect their job , their education and the local economy . do the Secretary of State agree that urgent action be need to extend test centre hour , to ramp up the recruitment of examiner , and to clamp down on the rip - off company that book multiple slot , only to flog they at high price ? my hon . friend be right to raise these concern on behalf of learner driver . on 18 December , the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency set out a seven - point plan that recognise the need to fix the drive test booking system , so that we can get new driver on the road . I will hold it to account for delivery of that plan and the change that my hon . friend and his constituent need to see . when the previous Government cancel High Speed 2 , they promise more than £ 4 billion for project in the north and the midland . do the Government still plan to deliver on that , and when should we expect to see that money in the north ? I hate to tell the hon . Gentleman this , but that be fantasy money . we be work through a pipeline of transport infrastructure project , and will make announcement alongside the spending review . the long - promise platform 1 lift at Hertford North station , due to be deliver under the Access for all scheme , have be delay yet again . this leave some of my disabled constituent have to travel back up the line to get a different train to platform 2 , so that they can use the lift there . will the appropriate Minister meet I to discuss how we can urgently drive forward the lift project for my constituent ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise concern about disabled access at his local station . we want to ensure that everyone can access our public transport network , and I would be happy to ensure that I or one of my colleague meet he . on economic growth , which we have discuss , will the Secretary of State clarify , for the benefit of the Conservative party , that economic growth depend on rather more than a well - oil revolve door between the Tory party and big business — a door through which a former Tory Transport Minister and Member of the other place unsuccessfully attempt to walk last week ? deliver economic growth require a proper plan for investment in our transport infrastructure . that be exactly what this Government be determined to deliver . once Birmingham ' s Camp Hill line reopen , we will need track investment if we be to restore the pre - pandemic service frequency on the cross - city line , include to Northfield and Longbridge . will the Minister look fully at the case for upgrade King ' s Norton station ? my hon . friend be an assiduous and informed campaigner for improved rail service for his constituent . he will know that funding for the midland rail hub include funding for design for reinstated island platform at King ' s Norton . decision still need to be take on future investment , but I know that he will push for construction to start as soon as possible . the Calder Valley line be list as a top priority for improvement by Transport for the North ' s electrification taskforce 10 year ago , back in 2015 , yet my constituent be still wait for those improvement . will the Minister commit this Government to deliver the infrastructure for my constituent that the last Government could not ? Network Rail be complete a strategic outline business case , cover electrification of the Calder Valley line . the business case will be consider in the context of the wide electrification strategy , so that we can determine how to deliver the good possible benefit across the region . next month , railway enthusiast from around the world will come to my constituency , where we will mark the 200th anniversary of the Stockton and Darlington railway , which take off from the town of Shildon . will my right hon . friend ask the Rail Minister to meet I and other mps along that route to talk about how the Government can be part of those celebration ? I be sure that be an invitation that the Rail Minister could not possibly refuse . on that basis , I look forward to a Minister open the Coppull railway station , or at least do an impact study on the main line . Ukraine ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on Ukraine . yesterday , at the Ukraine Defence Contact Group , chair by the Defence Secretary , we see almost 50 nation and partner stand together . Ukraine be back by the member of the group , and by billion of dollar - worth of arm and ammunition that have be commit to keep its warfighter equip . that will increase pressure on Putin , help force he to the table , and bring a sustainable peace close . we be pleased that Secretary Hegseth confirm the US ' s continued commitment to the group , to Ukraine ' s pursuit of what he call " a durable peace " , and to the importance of security guarantee . we hear his call for european nation to step up ; we be , and we will . NATO ally pledge € 40 billion in 2024 , and go on to provide € 50 billion . the majority of that come from european nation , while non - US NATO ally boost wide defence spending by 20 % in just the last year , so Europe be step up . finally , we see a clear commitment to ratchet up the pressure on Putin , use both military and economic tool . we all agree that 2025 will be the critical year for Ukraine . at this crucial moment , we will not step back , but step up our support for Ukraine . President Trump and President Zelensky have both speak of their desire to achieve " peace through strength " . the commitment make yesterday provide the collective strength that we need to achieve peace . for our part , the UK will spend £ 4 . 5 billion on military support for Ukraine this year , which be more than ever before . we have now provide more than 500 , 000 artillery shell , worth over £ 1 . 5 billion . yesterday , the Defence Secretary announce that we will provide an additional £ 150 million of new firepower , include drone , tank and air - to - air missile . Ukraine ' s security matter to global security . that be why the vital Ukraine Defence Contact Group coalition of 50 nation and partner stretch from the Indo - Pacific to South America . this war be never about the fate of just one nation . when the border of one country be redrawn by force , it undermine the security of all nation . the US be serious about stability in the Indo - Pacific , as be we . that be why the Prime Minister announce that the carrier strike group will go there next year . if aggression go unchecked on one continent , it embolden regime on another , so on step up for Ukraine , we be , and we will . on step up for european security , we be , and we will . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question ; we be in recess next week , and the day that we return will be the third anniversary of Putin ' s unprovoked illegal invasion of Ukraine . in the past three year , Russia have inflict unimaginable suffering on Ukraine . there have be military and civilian loss of life on a vast scale , at the hand of a dictator oblivious to consequence and only too willing to sacrifice his own soldier to the meat grinder . in the face of so many casualty and so much pain , of course we all want peace . we all want the senseless slaughter to stop , and for Ukraine to once again thrive and enjoy the trapping of peace and prosperity , which we all take for grant . it be clear that an end to this suffering be a goal that President Trump wish to achieve rapidly ; he set that out to the american people before secure their support for his election to the White House , and for a second mandate . we remain 100 % steadfast in our support for Ukraine , and in our backing for the Government in deliver that ; they give we the same backing when in opposition . we agree in principle with they and believe , as we stress repeatedly in government , that it be for the Ukrainians to decide the timing and the term of any negotiation on end the war . do the Minister agree that negotiation without the direct involvement of Ukraine would be unthinkable ? what more can the Minister say about how the Government will work with ally to ensure that any negotiation be drive by the primacy of Ukraine ' s need , not least give its status as the democratic nation invade , without provocation , by a dictator ? we welcome the news from the Minister about the commitment give by other european NATO nation this week , but be not President Trump right to consistently highlight the point that some NATO nation spend far below what be expect and require on defence ? will the Minister assure the House that the Government , use every lever at their disposal , will remind all NATO member that a win for Putin in any settlement may bring a temporary end to the conflict , but will not make the world a safe place ? far from it . it would be an illusion of peace , and would be likely to send a very dangerous signal to other potential adversary . of course , the position express by both the US President and his Defence Secretary yesterday have huge implication for our defence policy . they have make it abundantly clear that the US will play no role in any future peacekeeping effort in Ukraine , should that be necessary . although the Government will of course be cautious about contemplate publicly the implication of that , be not the key point straightforward : if high defence spending be urgent before , it be now critical ? I welcome the fact that , in the main , there be still consensus across this House on support Ukraine . that have be a tremendously important part of the support that we have give over the last three year , and before , to the Ukrainians . the hon . Gentleman say that there should be no negotiation about Ukraine without Ukraine ; my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary make that clear in his remark yesterday . NATO ' s job be to put Ukraine in the strong possible position for any talk , but there can be no negotiation about Ukraine without Ukraine ' s involvement . we want to see a durable peace and no return to conflict and aggression . that be the only way in which this war can end , with the kind of security that President Trump and Secretary Hegseth have refer to . we be all conscious of the three - year anniversary of the invasion of Ukraine , and our thought be with the people of Ukraine at this time . however , there can be no peace without justice . it be therefore welcome that country be collaborate to try to bring about a de - escalation of the war . what be the Government do to focus on the justice system , to ensure that war criminal be try , and justice be bring to the ukrainian people ? my hon . friend make an important point . we have always say that this have to be a just peace , and that those who have commit war crime during the invasion of Ukraine need to be pursue for they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday , the leader of my party warn the Prime Minister that we might be face the bad betrayal of a european ally since Poland in 1945 . the hour since have confirm our fear . this be a moment of great peril for we all . do the Minister agree that the US ' s action be a betrayal of our ukrainian friend , who have fight so hard for their freedom , of the UK , and of all our european ally ? will the Government step up and show british leadership , start by pass urgent legislation to seize frozen russian asset , so that we can support Ukraine whatever the US do ? clearly , in the light of the event of the past 24 hour , the Government need to look again at defence spending . do she agree that the decision of the previous Government to continue with a cut to the Army of 10 , 000 troop at a time when war be rage on our continent now look utterly unforgivable ? I do not accept what the hon . Gentleman say about be betray by our ally . the US Defence Secretary have make it clear that he that he want a durable peace . that be what he and the President be proceed to try to obtain , so I do not accept that point . in term of our own force , we be seek to ensure that recruitment , which have fail to meet target over the last number of year , be improve , so that the number in our armed force be up to full strength . I thank the Minister for her statement and the additional support that the Government have announce . it be essential that the UK support Ukraine , and that the annual £ 3 billion pledge continue . do she agree that work alongside our ally be even more essential in these turbulent time to bring about an end to the war ? I agree with my hon . friend . it be clear that any such negotiation must involve Ukraine , and that the Ukrainians must be happy with the peace that be negotiate . our role at present , while fierce fighting be still go on , be to put they in the strong position that we can , in order to enable they properly to negotiate . I welcome what the Minister have say from the Dispatch Box . do she agree that in this new world , and in the event of any peace deal , the United Kingdom and its european ally must lead in provide Ukraine with military support and , potentially , military presence across land , air and sea , to give Ukraine confidence that any peace will endure ? I assure the Government that they will have my support , if that be what they decide to do . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his remark . of course , when he play a part in these matter he be in office , so he be very knowledgeable about they . I can confirm that we aim to put Ukraine in the strong possible position to enable it to negotiate . that involve continue to supply the Ukrainians with the arm and weapon that they need in order to fight , because the fighting be still fierce . we need to step up and ensure that we do that . certainly over the last period , the EU and european nation that be involve in the coalition to support Ukraine have give the majority of military aid and support . as the Secretary - General of NATO confirm yesterday , 58 % of the support that Ukraine receive last year be from european nation , so european nation be step up . we must continue to do so . I welcome the Minister ' s comment about Ukraine ' s security be indivisible from global security . do she agree that the UK must stand firm against those who believe that they can take land through aggression , and that we must continue to send a strong signal around the world that large nation can not just grab bit of small nation as and when they please ? my hon . friend be correct . as I say in my initial response to the urgent question , it be important that we deter that kind of behaviour wherever it be see around the world . it be quite clear from event of the past few hour that the Atlantic and the high north be of increasingly critical concern . indeed , I be a member of the Scottish Affairs Committee that consider that in the previous Parliament . I know that the Government have have conversation with Denmark , but what conversation be they have with our other Joint Expeditionary Force partner to ensure that those force be give the support and the resource that they need ? the Government have ongoing discussion with our partner in Europe and the high north . do the Minister agree that this announcement should not affect the support of this House and the UK for Ukraine , and will she work with our armed force and our defence industry to do everything possible to support ukrainian force on the frontline ? my hon . friend be correct . we be do that , but we must continue to step up our capacity to support Ukraine with weapon and the force that it need to deter ongoing aggression , and to ensure that it be in the strong possible position in any negotiation that it decide to enter . will the Government impress on President Trump at every possible opportunity that the reason why appeasement lead to world war two be that it leave a vacuum in Europe , whereas the reason why the occupation of eastern Europe at the end of that war do not lead to world war three be that the United States fill any possible vacuum and contain further aggression ? if he be go for a settlement against the wish of the ukrainian people , the least he can do be guarantee directly the security of that part of Ukraine which remain unoccupied . no matter which side of the Chamber he be sit on , the right hon . Gentleman have a long history of support deterrence — whether nuclear or short of that threshold — and he make the same point again . the US Secretary of Defence make it clear in his remark to the contact group that deterrence be important around the world , so I think there be agreement there . I welcome the announcement of the new £ 150 million package of military firepower for Ukraine . , include drone , tank and air defence system . how will that boost ukrainian resilience and the UK defence sector ? it do both . there be only one way in which we can provide the Ukrainians with increase amount of munition and drone , which be develop and change rapidly , and that be by boost the strength of our defence industry . that have the additional importance of enable we to boost our capacity to deter any potential aggression , so in that sense we can do both , and we be do so . view from Washington , the idea of carve up the map in Europe might look like a pragmatic deal , even if history tell we that that always end badly . surely we in Europe understand that no matter what we give Vladimir Putin , he will always want more . be that the context in which the strategic defence review be be carry out , and do the Minister accept that this moment require a fundamental reset of our relation with our european partner — not just in defence — and that we need to get real about the financial and economic implication ? I assure the right hon . Gentleman that the strategic defence review be about identify threat that we face now , rather than threat we perhaps face before the Ukraine war begin , so I can tell he that the review be be conduct with that in mind . on the deterrence that we need to be able to provide and the money we need to spend to provide it , the commitment be as it have be : as the Prime Minister have say , he will set out a path to 2 . 5 % once the strategic defence review have be publish , and we expect that to be in the spring . as the Minister will know from her many welcome visit , my constituency be home to many defence company that be play a vital role in this conflict . do she agree that it be crucial that we continue to support company here in the UK to get military kit into the hand of those in Ukraine who need it most ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . I have have the pleasure of visit her constituency on several occasion , and when it be her predecessor ' s constituency as well , so I be well aware of the strength of its defence industrial base . we need to strengthen that base across our nation and region , and we be do that . that have the additional importance of provide deterrence for our nation as well as support Ukraine . will the Minister agree that this clarify what the benchmark of success for the defence review must be ? as some of the defence chief have be express , we must be ready , if necessary , to fight a war with Russia if we be to deter it and if we be to be in any position to guarantee the security of an independent and sovereign Ukraine after whatever be agree between President Trump and President Putin . I agree — we all agree — with the hon . Gentleman that defence spending need to increase . that must be do in the context of we set out in the SDR precisely where we see the threat . it be important to spend money correctly and in the good possible way , and I do not think that there be any real disagreement across the Chamber about that . we will see in due course whether those challenge be meet when the strategic defence review be publish and we set out the path to 2 . 5 % — when ? in the spring . I welcome the statement that any negotiation about Ukraine must involve Ukraine . in that spirit , have the Minister or any of her colleague have conversation with their counterpart in Ukraine follow the recent development to find out how they be feel ? if not , do they plan to soon ? I have not , but I know my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have be have discussion and , indeed , our discussion be ongoing and frequent . I have have contact with my counterpart in Ukraine , just not since yesterday . yesterday , no matter that we in this House wish it be not the case , the people of Ukraine be betray and the crime of aggression and annexation be reward in a telephone call between Washington and Moscow . right now , we have to be build close partnership with our european ally for whom democracy , sovereignty and the rule of law still actually mean something . I welcome the Government ' s announcement that they defend the territorial integrity of Ukraine , but how will the Government do that in the face of two man who believe that , because of their military superiority , they can do whatever they want to whomever they want ? the US Secretary of Defence make it clear yesterday that any peace negotiation that the Americans be involve in need to lead to a durable peace that do not see a resumption of the aggression that have lead to this war , and we support that . we have also make it quite clear that these negotiation must involve Ukraine — of course they must . that be the way in which this war will finally end . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , particularly the commitment that any negotiation about Ukraine must involve Ukraine , because if report of the call between President Trump and Moscow be to be believe , this be less the art of the deal and more a charter for appeasement . will we be work with NATO ally to establish a clear road map with define timeframe for Ukraine ' s NATO membership , ensure long - term deterrence against inevitable further russian aggression ? we have always say that Ukraine ' s rightful place be in NATO , and our position be that Ukraine be on an irreversible path to NATO membership . however , we have also always be clear that the process will take time . I have already say quite clearly that the fate of Ukraine in these negotiation can not be determine without Ukraine be fully involve , and that be our priority . at the moment , warfighting be still happen to put Ukraine in the strong possible position to negotiate from strength . in 1994 , Russia — along with the UK and the US — sign the Budapest memorandum , pledge to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine . give Russia ' s flagrant breach of that undertaking , why should Ukraine believe a word that Putin say without concrete security guarantee ? the right hon . Gentleman be correct that there must be security guarantee , and the US Defence Secretary say as much . these be all matter for any negotiation that take place . of course , we will be support Ukraine , and we have make it quite clear that there can not be a peace that do not involve Ukraine or that it do not support . can the Minister assure the House that it be UK Government policy that not only must Ukraine be involve in a peace and in secure its territorial integrity , but it be only the ukrainian people — not President Trump , nor President Putin — who can determine the destiny of Ukraine ? we have say that Ukraine must be involve in those negotiation , and that peace negotiation need two side to come an agreement . it therefore clearly follow that the Ukrainians must be content with whatever the process come up with . there must be security guarantee , and the peace must be durable — everybody agree with that . be the Minister concern that President Trump be repeat false Kremlin propaganda and perpetuate a gross misrepresentation of the war in Ukraine by suggest that , for Ukraine , this " be not a good war to go into " ? will the UK Government be make it clear to the US President in no uncertain term that Ukraine have just defend itself from invasion , bombing , rape , murder and occupation , and that it be an outrage for President Trump to suggest that Ukraine should give up its sovereign territory to Russia ? we have make quite clear with our 100 - year partnership with Ukraine that we back it in the long term . we have provide Ukraine with support from many party across this Chamber over a number of year to ensure that it can continue its fight , and we will continue to support Ukraine during any negotiation that take place so that it can get the peace that it wish to have . the Minister ' s commitment to continue defence support for Ukraine be essential , and I be sure the House ' s thought be with Ukrainians who be fight for their freedom and all the Ukrainians in our own community who have find sanctuary in this country . do she agree that any settlement can not be a repeat of the Budapest memorandum or the Minsk agreement , which fail to deter future russian imperial aggression ? I think everybody agree that any peace that be negotiate must be durable . that will require security guarantee , give the past experience that the Ukrainians have of Russia and russian aggression . as the Minister will be aware , much of the russian war effort be be sustain by other nation , include several of the BRIC nation , which be support Russia through direct military aid or dual - use product . what be the Minister do to try to deter the flow of arm that be continue to sustain Russia ? the right hon . Gentleman will know very well that there be sanction , which we do our good to police , and they have have some impact . I think they have to continue both while the war be still ongoing and while the peace be be consider and negotiate . all war end , but I know it be the feeling of member across the House that we very much owe it to the man and woman fight for Ukraine that , when this war end , it do so with Ukraine in a position of strength at the table and in the drive seat on the term and timescale . I agree with my hon . friend that we need to continue to support Ukraine to put it in the strong possible position both while it be fight the war and during any negotiation that take place . could we take a moment to reflect on the hundred of thousand of life that have be lose in this war — ukrainian civilian , ukrainian soldier , russian soldier — and all the family who be mourn today ? effort be make early on by latin american and african leader and the Pope to try to negotiate an end to this war , and we may now have an opportunity to demonstrate that one country should never occupy another . do the Minister believe that there be any possibility in the near future of a ceasefire , ahead of negotiation , that would be acceptable to the people of Ukraine as well as the rest of Europe , because we need to see an end to this ghastly conflict ? the right hon . Gentleman be correct that conflict such as this need to come to an end as soon as possible , so I acknowledge the point he make about the death on all side and how bad that be . however , I think it be important for any peace that may be negotiate to be durable and lasting , so we need to focus our mind at present on support Ukraine as much as we can so that it go into any such negotiation in the strong possible position . give Putin ' s illegal invasion and declare intent , do the Government agree that any negotiation must result in a sovereign Ukraine , and that the UK will play its part in provide security guarantee that be meaningful , unlike those of the past , because that be crucial to secure a last peace ? the hon . member be right that security guarantee be likely to be an important part of any peace agreement give the past history . we have a 100 - year partnership with Ukraine , and we be commit to ensure that it can defend its sovereign capability to continue to exist . while it be too early to talk about any detail of what those security guarantee may be , we be committed to make sure that Ukraine can continue as an independent state . on Monday , there will be a concert in Bath abbey in support of Ukraine . my constituent have be unstinting in their support for Ukrainians live among we , but also for ukrainian community such as in Oleksandriia . now be not the point at which to weaken our support . how will the Government ensure that Ukraine ' s voice be hear loud and clear in any peace talk , and that no european country may potentially , or will ultimately , be bully by US President Trump ? I agree very much with the hon . Lady when she say that our ukrainian friend here in this nation have receive a lot of support — not only in her constituency , but across the UK — from their friend and neighbour , and that that will continue . we have a 100 - year partnership with Ukraine . we have support the Ukrainians through the tough time of this war with arm and other necessary support , and we will continue to do so . I be sure the Minister will acknowledge , as I do , the huge effort of the ukrainian diaspora in the UK , of which a large proportion be in Scotland , particularly in and around my constituency . give the huge effort they have make , do she agree that we must not convey the idea in the come week that we have in any way let they or their countryman down ? I do agree with that , and we have no intention — I think in any part of this House — of do so . I call Jim Shannon thank you , Mr Speaker — I be surprised to be call so early . do you want to wait a minute ? no , no — I will grab the chance . I thank the Minister for her answer . it be obvious to I and other member of this House that she have a heart that want to help those in Ukraine , and we appreciate that , especially since it come from Government . I welcome the potential peace that might come , but of course it have to be a peace of justice ; it have to be fair to the Ukrainians , and we hope a way can be find . do she agree that any sign of negotiation be to be welcome , but that there can be no doubt that Ukraine retain the support of this House ? she have say that , and everyone have say it . what role will the UK have in ensure that the people of Ukraine have security from further russian aggression when Putin recalibrate his force a year or two from now ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise these concern . it be clear that any peace that be negotiate , which must have the consent of the Ukrainians themselves , have to be durable , and to the extent that that require security guarantee , those have to be present for it to work . it be a truism from ancient roman time that if we want peace , we must prepare for war , and I be glad the strategic defence review be prepare we for war — sadly — although in slow motion , unfortunately . will the SDR consider the unlocked back door that be Ireland , which sit outwith NATO ? it be clear that alarm bell be ring in NATO , but Ireland , cash rich , sit outside NATO and have a critical role in defend undersea cable . we learn from the irish press that its navy be set sail without sufficient officer to man its main gun — it be send out gunboat without gun . what can we do to encourage Ireland to play a full role in what will , I think , be a confrontation with Russia ? the hon . Gentleman be right that we need to prepare . the strategic defence review will set out the threat that we face and we will then turn our attention to make sure we obtain the capability to deal with they . obviously we will look at any weakness there might be and try to shore they up . every time President Trump make a statement about Ukraine I hear from constituent that they be terrify for the future of Ukraine , and never more so than in the last 24 hour . will the Minister confirm whether the British Government be consult on or tell about President Trump ' s call with Vladimir Putin beforehand ? I be afraid it be above my pay grade to know the answer to that question , but I be sure the hon . Gentleman will have an opportunity to ask those whose pay grade it be not above at another question session . as far as I be aware we have have friendly conversation at the Ukraine defence contact group with member of the US Administration . what practical help be the Government provide to Ukraine ' s legal system and judge to ensure the prosecution of war crime ? we have a 100 - year partnership with Ukraine , which have be sign . that will be support it in any way it feel it need support that we might be able to offer . I can not answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question today about what help we have give , but I be absolutely certain that if Ukraine ask we for help and it be consider that our legal profession be able to supply it , we will think about do so . do the Minister not agree that the lesson to draw from this be the importance of military strength , work with all our NATO and european ally , but critically be able to stand on our own two foot militarily ? we need to see defence spending as investment , and in that light do she wish we be not give however many billion of pound it be to Mauritius and that we could invest that money in our defence instead ? we have a commitment to get our defence spend back to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and the last time it be at that level be at the time of the last Labour Government . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 24 February include : Monday 24 February — remain stage of the Crown Estate Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 25 February — Second reading of the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education ( transfer of Functions etc ) Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 26 February — Opposition day ( 5th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Thursday 27 February — general debate on the third anniversary of the war in Ukraine , follow by a general debate on St David ' s day . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 28 February — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 3 March will include : Monday 3 March — remain stage of the Finance Bill . Tuesday 4 March — all stage of the Church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) Bill . Wednesday 5 March — estimate day ( 1st allot day ) . at 7 pm the House will be ask to agree all outstanding estimate . Thursday 6 March — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 7 March — private member ' Bills . like some of our lead podcaster , we love a storm cloud or two in business question . sure enough , the poor Government have be desperately hope that recent event in America would drive the storm cloud away from the UK economy . even though the news from Washington DC have be startling , to say the least , it have not be enough to dispel yet another week of adverse economic headline . both the Office for Budget Responsibility and the Bank of England have reportedly downgrade their growth forecast , the latter cut its by half , to a measly 0 . 75 % for the year . so much for the Chancellor ' s much - vaunted dash for growth . meanwhile , the National Institute of Economic and Social Research have report that " zero fiscal headroom remain " to deal with any shock , in the same week that President Trump have announce 25 % tariff on steel . it be easy to see what have happen here : Labour never expect President Trump to win . it send a team over to campaign for his opponent . the Government pass an anti - growth Budget , and they do not build enough leeway into their financial planning . indeed , the Chancellor promise no new taxis or spending . now we be have to live with the consequence . it be also hard to miss the continue controversy that the Attorney General be create , and hard still not to notice the extremely critical word of his labour colleague , Lord Glasman . I do not propose to repeat those word here , but they point to two issue that demand this House ' s full and proper attention . in both case , the concern be not over the legal position take by the Attorney General as such , but the contradiction that they offer to the rest of Government policy . People can agree or disagree about the policy , but the contradiction can not be fudge . they can not be blame on other , and they require explanation . the first contradiction be in relation to international law . on 3 February , the Attorney General tell the Council of Europe that the Government would " never withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights , or refuse to comply with judgment of the court " . in do so , he be simply restate settle UK policy for many decade , a fact that he somehow neglect to mention . the difficulty arise , however , because the Government ' s new legislation on small boat appear to retain a measure ban migrant from claim protection under the modern slavery law . that be a ban that the Prime Minister go out of his way to denounce when it be first introduce in 2023 . in his word : " it be a cry shame that … we face legislation that drive a coach and horse through our world - lead modern slavery framework , which protect woman from exploitation . " — [ Official Report , 8 March 2023 ; Vol . 729 , c . 295 . ] that be quite a u - turn . you see the deep problem , Mr Speaker . which be it to be : will the Government abide by international law in this instance and protect woman from exploitation , as the Prime Minister say , or will they reverse his newly adopt position in support of the ban ? the second problem relate to domestic law . last November , the Attorney General strengthen his official guidance to Government lawyer on possible legal risk . he specifically caution against offer legal support for policy that have only a tenable case . elsewhere , he have pledge to restore check on Executive — that is , government — action . this come at a time when the Prime Minister have specifically pledge to end vexatious litigation while build a huge amount of new housing and infrastructure . you see the problem , Mr Speaker . it be the problem that the noble Lord Glasman be point out when he praise the rule of law , but not of lawyer . this edict will have a chilling effect on what I think we can already agree be pretty sluggish decision making by Ministers . will the Government now take less legal risk , as the Attorney General require ? will their lawyer now require Ministers to act only when they can defeat a legal challenge , or will they curb the judicial review and other legal case that will otherwise inevitably disrupt their building plan ? I do not expect the Leader of the House to tell we how the Government plan to resolve those obvious problem today , but the House would be grateful for a debate in Government time on what on earth the Government ' s approach will be to resolve they . may I first update the House on the work of the Modernisation Committee , which I chair ? we establish the Committee to rebuild trust in politic , raise standard , improve culture and make Parliament more effective . in recent year , the role of an MP have change significantly , with many more demand and expectation in the constituency . the make - up of the Commons have change a great deal too ; many more party be represent and member well reflect the country we serve . so how we do thing need to change , too . I thank all of those who contribute to our wide - range call for view . work be already under way , with the Standards Committee ' s inquiry on Members ' outside employment and the Procedure Committee ' s inquiry on proxy vote and call list . today , we have set out three further area for consideration : improve accessibility ; ensure that the Chamber remain the crucible of national debate ; and how we can provide more certainty on parliamentary business . the right hon . Gentleman raise a number of point and give a list of economic statistic . I might give he some alternative one , if I may . inflation be down , mortgage rate be come down , wage be grow at their fast rate in three year , business investment be at the high level for 19 year , and the International Monetary Fund and the OECD be both say that Britain will be Europe ' s fast grow major economy in come year . he support the former Prime Minister — not the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , who be in his place , but the one who crash the economy and send mortgage rate fly and inflation to record high — so I will not take lecture from he . yet again , the right hon . Gentleman raise the Attorney General . quite honestly , the way in which the Conservatives and their friend in the right - wing medium be try to undermine the Attorney General be pathetic . they be once the party of law and order , and now they seek to undermine law and order at every turn . as someone who work closely with the Attorney General , I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that he be an asset to the Government and a formidable partner in our attempt to restore integrity to how we make and implement law in this country . the Conservatives ' law do not fit that remit , and that be why in many case they never get off the ground . they be challenge time and again in the court , waste everyone ' s time and money and not deliver the outcome that they want . we will not take lecture from they on that . the shadow Leader of the House do not want to talk about the substance of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which we debate this week . that be because the previous Government lose control of our border : net migration rise to a record high of almost 1 million in their last year in office , and small boat crossing increase by one hundredfold . to be fair to he , he know that the Rwanda plan be a gimmick and would not work — he say as much when he resign as a Minister — but I be at a loss as to why he and Conservative Front Benchers vote against give the Border Security Command new counter - terrorism power and other measure . they be chase the tail of Reform so much that they be go around in dizzying circle , leave the incredible sight of the modern Conservative party voting against strengthen our border . I also notice that the right hon . Gentleman do not take up my invitation last week to celebrate the Leader of the Opposition ' s first 100 day in office . early this week , however , he do mark the anniversary of another leader be elect . those be the day , weren ' t they ? back then , the Tory party know what it stand for — back when it be a serious party and represent large part of the country . I be not sure Margaret Thatcher would even recognise the conservative party today . it be no wonder the Conservatives herald and respect their former leader far more than their current leader . let we be honest : like their current leader , their party be a shadow of its former self . woman ' s centre provide vital support for woman face issue include isolation , domestic abuse , health problem and navigate the social security system , among a wide range of other support . I recently visit Stockport Women ' s Centre and want to place on the record my thank to all the staff and volunteer there who support woman from across Stockport . can we have a debate in Government time on the enormous contribution of organisation that support woman in our society , in particular woman ' s centre across England , and on how to secure the essential funding they need to continue their important work ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the woman ' s refuge in Stockport on the work it do . he will know that this Government be commit to tackle violence against woman and girl and that we want to halve those statistic over the next 10 year . that be a huge ambition and will take detailed and committed work , which I know he will join we in do . as we now know , local government be be reorganise , and the Labour Government have cancel local election while affect council work out how on earth they will reorganise themselves . like many resident in these area , I would have hope that that plan would have be in place before the election be cancel ; many issue be very much up in the air , and the public deserve to know what they be in for . in Woking , for example , successive conservative administration at the council rack up £ 2 billion of debt with absolutely no plan for how to pay it off . in Greater Essex , Conservative - run Thurrock run up debt of around £ 1 . 5 billion largely due to investment in a solar farm that do not exist . with both Essex and Surrey now on the fast track for local government reorganisation , what will happen to those debt ? last week , the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , the hon . member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , write a letter to all the leader of the two - tier council and unitary authority in Essex , in which he say : " there be no proposal for council debt to be address centrally or write off as part of reorganisation … proposal should reflect the extent to which the implication of this can be manage locally . " will the Leader of the House ask the Minister to come forward with a statement to confirm that what he really mean be that resident across place such as Essex and Surrey will be force to pay for the incompetence of previous Tory administration of other council , and that they be likely to see reduced service and high council tax bill simply because this Labour Government be determined to press ahead with local government reorganisation but not prepared to offer any financial support to alleviate that ? the hon . Lady raise the important issue of local government finance , and she be right to identify the mess those finance be leave in by the previous Government . many council have to spend their reserve on statutory service , which be not what they be intend for . we see council after council go bust month after month under the previous Government , and many more be leave in severe debt , like the one she have describe . we have give local government a significant settlement this year , but we recognise that more need to be do . we need to fix the long - term problem ; we need multi - year settlement . I know the transition will be difficult , but the devolution revolution — give local area more say and more power over how they spend and raise their revenue — will , in time , lead to more secure and sustainable funding for local government . I will ensure the relevant Minister come to this House with regular update . at the stroke of a pen , Tory - lead Northumberland county council be about to wipe 9 , 000 people off the county ' s housing waiting list . my office be beset by constituent in desperate need of secure and affordable accommodation , but even those in the high priority banding be often unable to get the housing they need . this be a simple , callous attempt to massage the huge housing list rather than deal with the issue . can we have a debate in Government time on how to ensure that those in need of decent , affordable housing be not easily cast aside and throw on to the scrap heap , as in the case of Northumberland county council ? I be really sorry to hear about what have happen with Northumberland county council and its housing waiting list . my hon . friend be absolutely right to identify that waiting list be far too high and that many people be in desperate need of affordable , social or council housing . that be why the Government be really committed to not just build 1 . 5 million new home over the course of the Parliament , but ensure that we have very many more council house , affordable house and social house . we announce further plan on that this week , and I will ensure that minister be accountable on these matter . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I remind the House that the Backbench Business Committee be take application for estimate day debate on 5 March , and that application close a week tomorrow . we will then consider the application for debate — we understand that there may be several — at our meeting on 25 February . in addition to the business announce by the Leader of the House , on 6 March there will be a debate on International Women ' s day , follow by a debate on political finance rule . on Thursday 13 March , if we be give the time , there will be a debate on the future of farming , follow by a debate on knife crime among child and young people . on a rough calculation , with the queue of application we have for the Chamber , we have enough business to allocate until the end of June , provide we be give every single available Thursday . in Westminster Hall when we come back , on Tuesday 25 February there will be a debate on maternity service , follow on the Thursday by a debate on rural crime and a debate on woman ' s health . I will leave the other business for when we come back . on Sunday 23 February , when we be due to come back after recess , the renowned hate preacher Mohamed Hoblos be due to speak in this country . he have be ban in Germany and Holland . the shadow Home Secretary have write to the Home Secretary ask that he be ban from this country . give that antisemitism be at its high peak ever and that anti - muslim hatred be at a peak , it be clear that the last thing we want be someone come along stir up racial and religious hatred . will the Leader of the House use her good office to encourage the Home Secretary to issue a ban order to prevent this man from come to this country ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for announce the forthcoming Backbench Business in the Chamber and in Westminster Hall . I be sure he will understand that I can not guarantee he every Thursday between now and the end of June , but we have be allocate Backbench Business debate regularly and often , and hopefully they will be fill in the usual way . I be really glad to hear about the debate on International Women ' s Day , which he and I have discuss . I will let colleague know about this more formally , but we be hope to arrange to get all the woman Members of the House together for a photo in the Chamber to mark International Women ' s Day . which I have not approve , but I will do now ! sorry , Mr Speaker . that be why I be not formally announce it , but say that we be hope to . I be gently lobby for it through your good office , thank you very much indeed . the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) raise a serious matter , as he often do , about how we tackle antisemitism and hate speech , and how we take action to ensure that those who be spread hate and antisemitism be prevent from do so . I shall certainly raise the matter with the Home Secretary and make sure that he get a full response . this week I be visit by some constituent as part of the Board of Deputies of british Jews parliamentary advocacy day . we talk about how great our local multi - faith forum be , and it be suggest that we should have a british - jewish culture month to celebrate all the multicultural element and diversity in the jewish community . one constituent say to I , " you could have two jewish people in the room and three different opinion . " would it not be wonderful if we could have that culture month , and could we perhaps spend some Government time discuss it ? I be very pleased that my hon . friend have such a good meeting with the Board of Deputies , and I thank she for all the work that she do — along with other member on both side of the House — to organise multi - faith gathering and bring people together . she be right to refer to the fantastic contribution that the jewish community have long make , and continue to make , at the heart of our country , and I be sure that other will support her call for a british - jewish culture month . last week I meet two of my constituent , Mark Farrow and Stephen White , who volunteer for the Driving Ukraine charity , which take modify vehicle to Ukraine to serve as ambulance and for other humanitarian purpose . later this month , they will take one more vehicle out , fund by generous donation from local people . will the Leader of the House join I in commend their effort , as well as the charitable contribution make by so many across our country in support of Ukraine and the ukrainian people ? may I also thank she for give we an opportunity to commemorate their effort during the week follow the recess ? let I take this opportunity to pay my respect to the right hon . Gentleman . the way in which he have conduct himself since leave office and remain here as a parliamentarian , active on behalf of his constituent , provide a model for other to follow . I do , of course , join he in commend Mark and Steve for the work that they do . the whole House want to support Ukraine and , indeed , we have continue to do so , as have many of our constituent in a range of way . I be very pleased that we will have that debate when we return . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on rugby football league , I will start by thank you , Mr Speaker , and congratulate you on your recent term as president of the Rugby Football League . you have always be a great champion of the great game , and I thank you for that . I be sure you be as excited as I be that the season be under way and the super league kick off tonight . this year , rugby league celebrate its 130th anniversary . in all that time , no representative of the sport have ever receive the high honour of a knighthood or damehood , although there have be many worthy candidate for those honour and recipient of other , include Billy Boston , Alex Murphy and Kevin Sinfield . do the Leader of the House share my dismay , frustration and surprise at this oversight ? can she advise I on how good to raise it , and who with , to ensure that our great game and some of the outstanding individual who represent it receive the recognition that they deserve ? I certainly recognise the issue that my hon . friend have raise , and I know that you , Mr Speaker , will share some of his view . I be not speak for you , of course , but I know that we all want to recognise the valuable contribution that rugby league make to our community and our country . it be indeed a surprise that rugby league player have not be honour in the way that other have . as my hon . friend will know , I can not comment on the right of individual to be award honours , but I too think that Kevin Sinfield have be an incredible ambassador not just for sport but for charitable fundraising , and he be definitely someone I think we should all consider . I shall ensure that the power that be have hear my hon . friend ' s comment , and I will help he to make representation . let I just say , as I have be tempt into the conversation , that I have raise this matter with the Prime Minister , because there be a major injustice in the stigma attach to rugby league and the fact that not one player have ever be knight . give that Kevin Sinfield have raise million for motor neurone disease charity , I should have think that now be the time and we should wait no long . on Monday , the Home Office publish update guidance that seem to prevent anyone from be grant citizenship if they have come to this country through a dangerous journey , despite the fact that for the vast majority of those seek refuge , there be no safe and legal route available . can we have a debate in Government time on this deeply misjudged policy , and in particular on the call from a former Home Secretary to the current Home Secretary to consider very carefully its implication ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that matter . she will be aware that there be long - stand rule that prevent those who arrive illegally in this country from be grant citizenship . we have strengthen those rule in a small way for those who arrive on small boat , so that they also will not be able to become british citizen . it be important that we take away some of the pull factor that bring people to this country and that we take tough action to control our border . she make a very important point about safe route , which I know the Home Secretary have be take action on and update the House on regularly , but I will ensure she continue to do so . the Leader of the House will be aware that the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill have be in Committee this week , slightly delay , and for good reason , because it be obviously a very important issue to debate . can she confirm whether the Government will still wait until the end of the Committee stage before publish the impact assessment on the Bill ? my hon . friend be right : the Bill have go into line - by - line consideration in Committee this week . she will be aware that it be a private Member ' s Bill and that the Government remain neutral on the issue , as it be a matter of conscience , but the Government have be clear that we will work with the Committee — indeed , there be Ministers on the Committee — to ensure that the Bill be workable and operable , and any such assessment will be make available in due course . this week be wear it red week , an opportunity to show our support for the amazing work of the Midlands Air Ambulance Charity . my question to the Leader of the House — as it be the week before recess , I be be gentle on she — be , will she join I in congratulate and thank the Midlands Air Ambulance Charity for the amazing work it do in support of my constituent , the wide midland and our NHS ? I thank the right hon . Lady for be gentle on I — I do not mind she be robust with I either ; that be what the job be all about , and I be here for that . I will absolutely join she in congratulate the Midlands Air Ambulance Charity on the critical work it do , often in a voluntary capacity . have I know it be wear it red week , I would have wear one of my red outfit — maybe next time she will let I know . last week be a big one for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . on Tuesday , Mayor Ros Jones announce that Munich Airport International will provide operational and management service for Doncaster Sheffield airport upon its reopening . then on Thursday , the Chancellor visit Yorkshire wildlife park — it be amazing ; come and see it — with Dan Fell and business from the chamber of commerce to discuss , among other thing , her support for the reopening of the airport . with National Apprenticeship Week currently take place , it be vital that investment in project such as this create skilled job in the area . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the importance of create skilled job across the UK , and will she support I and other local mps as we work with business to ensure that apprenticeship opportunity be in place when our airport reopen ? once again , my hon . friend live up to the name I have give he : Mr Doncaster Airport . I be pleased to hear that preparation have move a step close for flight come into Doncaster again . he raise the importance of a project such as Doncaster airport be about not just transport connectivity but bring job and opportunity for young people in the community . I commend he for his work . I shall try to avoid the temptation to say that when the Leader of the House , in her upbeat way , describe the Attorney General as an asset , we can all agree at least on the first syllable , and instead ask for a debate on — [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] it take a while ! instead , I will ask for a debate on trend in defence spending during and after the cold war , so that those on both side of the House have the chance to appreciate that when we be involve in a serious confrontation , we should not be argue about 2 . 5 % ; we should be argue for a figure much near to the 5 % that President Trump , for once , be right to demand . I will ignore the right hon . Gentleman ' s invitation to say anything other than I absolutely stand by my comment that the Attorney General be a fantastic asset for this Government , and we be lucky to have he work with we . the right hon . Gentleman will know that this Government be absolutely committed to work towards spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , but he be right to point out that defence spending have be too low to meet our country ' s strategic need . he will also know that the last time government spending on defence reach 2 . 5 % of GDP be under the last Labour Government . it never reach that level under his party . could we have a debate on Thames Water , which provide water disservice to 20 million people in this country ? we now know that the company receive from bill payer money that be suppose to be spend on environmental measure such as stop illegal discharge , and that that money have be use to pay bonus and dividend . we need to discuss whether the people run Thames Water be fit and proper person to run a public company . my hon . friend be absolutely right : the way our water industry have be run over recent year be absolutely shocking , with shareholder dividend be pay out over and above infrastructure spending and address discharge and other thing in our waterway . it be absolutely shocking , which be why this Government have bring in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be about to receive Royal Assent and will stop erroneous bonus . we have establish a new Independent Water Commission , and there be further reform come , but I will ensure that the House be keep fully up to date . the main road through my constituency of Woking have be close for the fourth time in short succession follow cladding fall off a hotel . cladding fall off it during construction , and have fall off it since it open . the developer , Sir Robert McAlpine , be responsible and seem to be in no rush to fix this problem . will the Leader of the House please agree to hold a debate on the responsibility of developer ? if company prove that they can not deliver , they should lose the right to work for the public sector . the hon . Gentleman will know that the cladding scandal be a shocking embarrassment for our country , and we still have some way to go in put that right . the Government set out a remediation action plan just before Christmas — that be on top of the Building Safety Act 2022 , which be pass under the previous Government — but we absolutely need to be able to hold freeholder and developer to account when they put dangerous cladding on building and refuse to replace it . the Belfrey in York be lose around £ 1 . 4 million through the change to the list place of worship grant scheme . the National Railway Museum be promise money by the last government — I appreciate that it be not necessarily real money — but that have be take away . both those project be midway through development . will the Leader of the House make representation to the Chancellor to say that when project be under way but have be strip down after development have start , money should be put in place to ensure that they can be complete ? I be sorry to hear what be happen to the Belfrey in York . my hon . friend will know that we have have to look at make some change to the list place of worship grant scheme , but I will certainly ensure that her particular — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) say that the scheme have be cut . in fact , the previous scheme , like many other run by the previous Government , be a work of fiction , and there be not the funding that people think be there . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a full reply about the particular case that she raise . those who have recently visit the Fylde coast will have see lot of volunteer bury Christmas tree in the sand , and I be sure Mr Speaker will back I up by confirm that this be not a strange Lancashire tradition . it be actually a fantastic wildlife trust project to vastly extend the sand dune , which be vital for nature and Fylde ' s flood defence . over the year , more than 11 , 000 Christmas tree have be bury to help rebuild the sand dune , 80 % of which have be lose over the last 150 year . the project have see 6 hectare of dune completely replenish . the Deputy Prime Minister recently agree to nip up the road to Fylde to have a pint with I to discuss an issue , so could I tempt the Leader of the House with an ice cream , to come for a walk with I on St Anne ' s beach to see this project , to meet some of the fantastic people who have put in more than 10 , 500 hour of volunteering , and to discuss coastal life ? I have many happy memory of roll down the sand dune in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency as a child — and as an adult , but the less say about that the well . I have hear about the project to restore the dune , but I have not appreciate that so many Christmas tree be be bury . I be always happy to accept such a lovely invitation , but perhaps we can wait until the weather be a bit nice . I be sorry that I forget to wear red today . if we be to meet net zero , we need to address the CO2 emission from our housing stock . we have some of the old housing stock in Europe , and it account for 17 % of our co2 emission . as I understand it , one issue be that house in conservation area and grade II property can not be change to double glazing or secondary glazing . can we have a debate on the hundred of thousand of affected home across this country ? these household want to do the right thing for this country by reduce their co2 emission , and they want to reduce their bill . that mean change their glazing — it be as simple as that — so we need to change our planning legislation . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the warm home scheme and the other measure that the Government be introduce be vital to reduce our demand for energy , as well as reduce people ' s bill . my hon . friend raise an important point , and there be always a balance to be strike between keep people ' s home warm and their bill down , while retain heritage and other matter . he be right to raise this point , and I will ensure that he get a full response . I strongly support the request of the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) for a statement on Thames Water . this company pay out its huge profit to shareholder and executive , preside over leak across the region and pollute our sea and river . to I , it be an example of the disaster of privatise the water industry . we need a clear statement from the Government that , instead of regulation , they will return Thames Water to public ownership so that the people of London and the whole region can enjoy clean water , and so that our sea will no long be pollute . the right hon . Gentleman be right that there have be severe problem , which have let everybody down . the problem , which stem from severe failure in the governance and regulation that underpin the water sector , be completely unacceptable . we pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will shortly receive Royal Assent , to stop these erroneous bonus be pay for poor performance . we will soon be introduce wide water reform , and the measure be currently under review . I will ensure that the House be update and that the right hon . Gentleman ' s opinion be include . this week , the UK Government announce positive change to apprenticeship that will cut red tape and increase collaboration between business and skill provider , set more young people on a path to successful career . in Scotland , by contrast , the last two year have see delay and freeze on modern apprenticeship , harm people in my constituency and across Scotland . do the Leader of the House agree that the SNP should follow the lead set by this UK Labour Government and take radical action to support the next generation of the workforce ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . let we be honest : the Scottish Government have fail on apprenticeship , with a 10 - year decline in apprenticeship start and number . this new Labour Government be absolutely determined to turn around the problem we have see with apprenticeship in England and elsewhere . that be why we be unlock 10 , 000 new apprenticeship start this week with some of our change . the Scottish Government should follow our lead and ensure that young people in Scotland get the opportunity they deserve . I would like the Leader of the House to be make aware that the resident of the Oldchurch estate in Romford have be terribly let down by Sanctuary housing association for month on end , with long delay to urgent repair leave resident suffer without heating or hot water throughout winter , as well as malfunctioning lift render disabled resident prisoner in their own home . as she will know , section 11 of the Housing Act 2004 mandate landlord to carry out essential repair within a reasonable timeframe , but that be often not enforce in practice , leave constituent such as mine live in unacceptably poor condition . will the Leader of the House please ask the Minister for Housing and Planning to make a statement on that frightful situation and take urgent action to get such a heartbreaking matter resolve as quickly as possible for my constituent ? may I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that on behalf of his constituent ? I be sure it be something that many of we across the House be familiar with . I be really sorry to hear of the poor service and the poor state of repair of house provide by Sanctuary in his constituency . he will know that that be one reason the Government want to strengthen the right of renter , whether they be in social or private housing . we be currently take the Renters ' right Bill through both Houses , which will give those live in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency even more right to ensure that they live in a decent , well - maintain and safe home . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know that I and many new member have be grateful over the last seven month for your guidance and for the support from your team in help we get to grip with the rule and procedure of this place , which I know the Leader of the House be commit to ensure be uphold and respect at all time . I imagine that my right hon . friend therefore share my concern that last night ' s political broadcast from the conservative party not only extensively feature the use of a taxpayer - fund ministerial car , but be film in part on the parliamentary estate in Speaker ' s Court , in direct contravention , as I understand it , of the rule of this House . will the Leader of the House ensure that the matter be fully investigate ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter , which have very recently come to light . she be absolutely right ; that be against protocol . it be against the protocol of this House to speak without permission , particularly in Speaker ' s Court . if the Leader of the Opposition be hear this today , she should offer Mr Speaker a full and speedy apology . also , we have high standard that we be all judge by and use ministerial and publicly pay - for car for party political campaigning purpose be not allow — and rightly so , because our constituent would not expect that to be the case . I hope the Leader of the Opposition have hear my hon . friend ' s question today and take action to put that right . with grateful thank to the Backbench Business Committee , I be lead a debate in Westminster Hall this afternoon on HIV Testing Week . the all - party parliamentary group on HIV , Aids and sexual health be keen to highlight the week and very much welcome the test take by the Prime Minister as part of highlight that facility . in poor country , however , test and treatment be only available thank to the resource from the Global Fund to fight AIDS , Tuberculosis and Malaria . give the uncertainty of funding from the United States , can the Leader of the House ensure that a statement come forward about the UK ' s approach to the replenishment of the Global Fund ? this time around , the UK ' s leadership will be vital if the fund be to be sustain . first , let I say that I have bring up with Ministers the issue that the right hon . Gentleman raise with I last week about the Hughes report . I hope that he and I will get a full reply on that . he yet again raise an important matter , and I congratulate he on secure a Westminster Hall debate on it this afternoon . HIV testing be very important . I be so proud that our be the first Prime Minister to take a public HIV test ; that will encourage other to do so . the right hon . Gentleman will know that it be our mission to end new transmission of HIV in England by 2030 . he raise important matter to do with the Global Fund . we support funding for it , and I will ensure that he be update on how we will continue with that . as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on semiconductor , it be a pleasure to join colleague in welcome academic , industrialist , researcher and manufacturer to a reception in the Palace this week to celebrate semiconductor . the UK have very real strength in this area . our research base be the good in the world . our manufacturing base , too , be world - beat , and we have semiconductor cluster across the UK , secure we high - quality employment in the compound semiconductor field . however , at the event , we be tell that the industrial strategy mention semiconductor only once . will the Leader of the House ensure that minister be aware that a reliable supply chain for the high - quality semiconductor industry be important for our drive to become more self - sufficient in green energy , defence and other sector , and for our growth agenda ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of the vital role for semiconductor in future technology and in our current industry . we be a world leader in this space , particularly in his region . semiconductor be cover in our industrial strategy ; we have a new one for the first time in many year , and academia , business and other rightly welcome it . this be also about our economic security — make sure that we have these home - grow technology and all that be need to support they . I will ensure that he get a full reply . this year mark the 160th anniversary of Ilkley train station , a vital transport link for my town . I be delighted to say that Steven Thornton — I meet he again just last Saturday — and his wide team at the Friends of Ilkley Rail Station be press ahead with develop a business case for improve interconnectivity between the train station and the bus that pick up from the adjoining street . this will improve accessibility and make the station a more inviting and user - friendly place for all . they be also try to get toilet at Ilkley train station . can we have a debate in Government time on how Government can support these vital project in get off the ground ? may I join the hon . member in congratulate the Friends of Ilkley Train Station on all that they be do to improve the experience for train user ? the interchange with local bus be absolutely vital . I strongly support the provision of public toilet — lack of toilet be a particular bugbear of mine . this government be take great step to ensure access for all on our transport network , include at Ilkley train station . my constituent in North Durham have endure month of inadequate service by Go North East . there have be widespread and last - minute bus cancellation , result in people miss school , work and health appointment . this issue be raise with I more than anything else at the moment . can we have a debate in Government time about the reliability of bus service and the measure in place for hold operator to account for such poor service ? affordable , reliable , local bus service be of great importance to all our constituent , and clearly to my hon . friend ' s constituent as well . I be sorry to hear of the poor service that they have receive . this Government be absolutely committed to deliver more reliable , affordable bus . we have bring forward the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , which , hopefully , will come before the House soon , and we have put in an extra £ 1 billion of investment . that be only the start . we really need to ensure that community like my hon . friend ' s be well serve with well bus . will the Leader of the House allow time for we to debate the importance of small business to the rural economy ? the annual Countryside Alliance award celebrate rural business , community and individual who make significant contribution to the countryside . this year , I be delighted to report that there be four finalist from the Scottish Borders : the Gordon Arms , the Allanton Inn , Scott ' s of Kelso , and Andersen & Sondergaard Wild Game Charcuterie . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate those business on reach the final , and agree that this be yet another fantastic reason to visit the Scottish Borders ? this be become a weekly occurrence , but I have to say that today ' s offer of an invitation be one that I really could take up . visit the hospitality business in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency that have make the final of the Countryside Alliance award would be fantastic . I congratulate they on get so far . this week , Pub aid announce the finalist of the community pub hero award . there be more than 1 , 000 entry , and I be over the moon to be able to say that the Bird in Hand pub in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village be one of the 31 finalist . it be an incredible venue that do so much for the community in Stafford , and particularly for the Royal British Legion . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the importance of pub to their local community , and will she visit the Bird in Hand with I when she next come to Stafford ? I be get a lot of invitation to pub today . I have become a complete lightweight , so I be generally on zero - alcohol beer these day , but the Bird in Hand in Stafford sound like a great hospitality venue . I congratulate it on be shortlist . pub really be at the heart of our community ; they provide great fare and great company , and be a warm place for many people in these winter month . I think my hon . friend might be invite I to her constituency soon anyway ; I be sure that we can pay a visit to the Bird in Hand soon . may I ask the Leader of the House for the help of her office , please ? the Government have produce an elective reform plan , a key plank of which be have 10 direct - to - test pathway . I have write two parliamentary question to find out what be be consider , and have be tell that 10 pathway be under consideration . I raise the matter with the Health Secretary directly this week . he answer : " if he want to do a pop quiz , he can use Google . " — [ Official Report , 11 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 155 . ] Google say that plan for 10 pathway be be consider . here be why it matter : the plan have one example that be find to be unsafe , be meet with outcry from doctor , and have be remove . how can this House and the public hold the Government to account if we do not get answer to question ? I know that the Health Secretary have be under a lot of pressure . he have lose a Health Minister , and Prime Minister Llama — I mean starmer — have produce a new one , but that be no excuse for the Health Secretary not be across the detail . will the Leader of the House kindly write to he to ask what 10 test be be consider , so that we can scrutinise they properly in this House ? I think I will swerve the hon . Gentleman ' s invitation to make a party political point , because it be really not become of he on this occasion . he raise a serious matter , and he know that I take very seriously the issue of parliamentary question be answer in a timely and forthcoming way , with the information that the Member of Parliament be ask for actually provide in the answer . if that have not happen in this case , I will absolutely take that up with the Health Secretary and ensure that the hon . Gentleman get the full reply that he need . a couple of week ago at my surgery in Wortley , I meet a resident who have be wait 26 week for a hip operation . sadly , he have just find out that he have at least another 40 week to wait . during our meeting , it be clear that he be in pain . he be on strong medication , but his eye water every time he make any sort of movement that involve his hip . I be proud to be part of a Government who have put so much money into the NHS to bring waiting list down , but give my constituent ' s situation , and that of many people like he , please can we have a debate in Government time on the urgent need to spend that money and get waiting list down as quickly as possible ? the figure be shocking : over 7 million people be , like my hon . friend ' s constituent , on NHS waiting list . behind every single one of they be a story like the one he describe — someone in pain , someone debilitate , someone unable to work or get on with their life . that be why get the waiting list down be one of the Government ' s first priority . we have set an elective reform plan , and we want to hit the 18 - week referral target by the end of this Parliament . that be incredibly ambitious . I hope that , thank to those ambitious plan , his constituent get the hip replacement that he desperately need . Ben and Amy Branson be my constituent . their daughter Bethany be 19 when she be kill by a drunk driver on 8 November 2022 . the driver crash his van into a car and flee the scene , before skip a red light and crash a second time into several car , one of which be carry Bethany . at the scene of his arrest , the driver admit guilt and say : " I hope I kill someone . oh well , you know what , I will get three , four , five year . hopefully I kill they . " despite his admission of guilt at the scene and there be no doubt as to his crime , he be still entitle to a one third reduction in his sentence as a result of his guilty plea , so 15 year be reduce to 10 year , and with good behaviour he could serve as little as six year and eight month in prison . Bethany ' s family do not believe that that reflect the severity and heartbreak of his crime . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on sentencing policy ? my heart go out to Bethany ' s family . what a heartbreaking and appalling case . every single one of we can relate to what an awful tragedy that be for the family , and how it be make bad by what seem to be a shocking injustice in how the offender be sentence . the hon . Gentleman will know that these matter be raise many time in previous Parliaments , which strengthen sentencing , but perhaps we need to go far . a sentencing review be take place , and the House will be update on that . there will be further legislation , and he could raise these matter far during proceeding on it . we need to do more to reduce tragic death like the one that he describe , and to deter people from drink - driving and dangerous driving . my constituent be incredibly proud of our non - league football club , Redditch United . lead by chairman Dave Faulkner , the Valley stadium host thousand of young boy and girl play football , host learner with special educational need and disability , and be a hub for local business . recently the club even secure a kit sponsorship with the Reddit r / football community . will the Leader of the House consider a debate in Government time on how the Government can support non - league football club , which be so often the beat heart of local community ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate those at Redditch United on all their work . grassroots sport and non - league football club be at the heart of our community and what we do . the Football Governance Bill will come to this House from the Lords very soon . I be sure that will be a great opportunity for he to mention the important work that Redditch United do . year 4 pupil from Burnside primary school in Cramlington recently get in touch with I . in their geography lesson , they have be study our local river and waterway , and they be really concerned about pollution and the difficulty create by the poor treatment of those waterway . may we have a debate on the Government ' s action to address those pupil ' concern by clean up our river , sea and waterway ? I know that young people , include those at Burnside school , be incredibly worried about our waterway . the pollution in our river and sea be absolutely unacceptable . this government be clean up the mess leave by the previous Government . through the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , we be take tough action against water company for discharge and pollution . further measure will come soon . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . we have start the Prisoner of Conscience scheme , in collaboration with ADF International . I wish to highlight the case of Yahaya Sharif - Aminu , a musician and follower of sufi islamic belief who be arrest and sentence to death for blasphemy in 2022 . in January 2021 , a high court in Kano state overturn Sharif - Aminu ' s conviction . despite that , he remain in prison and face a retrial under law that violate both the nigerian constitution and international human right standard . Nigeria be Africa ' s large economy and a key UK trade partner , so will the right hon . Lady raise with her Cabinet colleague the potential economic and business implication for international company operate in northern Nigeria if the Supreme Court there uphold the constitutionality of blasphemy law , and the impact that might have on investor confidence , corporate social responsibility commitment and long - term business stability ? the hon . Gentleman will know , I be sure , that the UK Government oppose the death penalty in all circumstance , include in the case that he raise . the right of individual to express their belief or non - belief be essential to a free and open society . we have raise , and will continue to raise , those matter with the Nigerian Government . I thank he for raise they today . rise — Order . before I call the next member , I remind the House that we need to finish in the next 15 or 20 minute , so I would appreciate it if member keep their question short — as would their colleague . the recent news of the loss of three bank branch in my constituency far illustrate the crisis face community , include in the Tyne valley , of grow banking desert . may we have a debate in Government time about the need for access to cash , not only for old people but for those start business , those purchase house and those who need to access face - to - face banking service , to promote growth in rural area ? protect vital banking service be important for local community like my hon . friend ' s . we be accelerate the roll - out of at least 350 banking hub , more than 100 of which be already open , and plan be announce at the end of last year to open a banking hub in his constituency . [ Official Report , 11 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 10wc . ] ( Correction ) this week , I have the pleasure of visit the Hertford regional college campus in Ware . I meet some of its talented hairdressing apprentice and instructor , hear about how they be fill job at small and medium - sized enterprise in our community , and discuss HRC ' s apprenticeship offer to my constituent . as we mark National Apprenticeship Week , will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate Hertford and Stortford ' s apprentice , and will she allow for a debate in Government time on how the Government ' s apprenticeship and skill offer will drive growth and help to deliver our plan for change ? as my hon . friend can see , I be particularly keen on hairdressing apprenticeship . hairdressing be one thing that we will never be able to do on the internet , so it be a job for life for people who go down that route . he be absolutely right that we need to open up more apprenticeship opportunity to more young people . that be why , as we mark National Apprenticeship Week , we have announce change to flexibility on math and english requirement , which we think will open up far more opportunity for young people such as those in his constituency . last weekend , Renfrewshire council confirm a case of H5N1 avian influenza at Castle Semple loch in Lochwinnoch in my constituency . that outbreak ' s proximity to RSPB Scotland Lochwinnoch nature reserve have raise serious concern in the local area . what step be the UK Government take to engage with the Scottish Government on that matter , and what action be they take to support conservation organisation and farmer in Scotland in respect of avian flu ? the outbreak of avian flu in recent year have be incredibly difficult for the birdkeeper on the frontline of that terrible disease . my hon . friend will know that disease control be a devolved matter , but an animal disease policy group co - ordinate the response across the devolved nation and with the UK Government . I will continue to ensure that she be update on those matter . may we have a debate in Government time to discuss the importance of sport in the community , and particularly of sustainable community - focus programme ? that be particularly pertinent for my constituency give that the fantastic Caerau Ely AFC be take on Connah ' s Quay Nomads FC in the quarter - final of the Welsh cup on Sunday . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Caerau Ely all the good for Sunday ? I wish Caerau Ely all the good for this weekend ' s game . my hon . friend be absolutely right that grassroots sport play such an important role across our community for young people , particularly in keep they fit and healthy and give they the skill for life they need , include through team sport . that be why the Government continue to be commit to grassroots sport . last weekend , I go to see Dudley Town FC draw 1 - 1 at home against Lichfield City . unfortunately , that " home game " be not within the constituency . in fact , Dudley have not have a stadium in the constituency for decade , despite be establish in 1888 . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on grassroots football and how we can bring club like mine back home where they belong ? I hope that the club will one day be back in the constituency . she be right to raise such matter . grassroots sport and football be important to the Government . that be why we be bring forward the Football Governance Bill , among other thing , and there be route to club like her get the funding support to bring they home . last week , I have the honour of visit Unstone junior school in my constituency , and I pay tribute to the fantastic work of the staff . there be also the opportunity for some of the child to ask I question , and a range of issue be raise , include the environment . crucially , I be ask this question : what more can we do to support the school in provide healthy eating and , in particular , allow the child to have watermelon and strawberry for their lunch ? I would strongly encourage the young people of my hon . friend ' s constituency to have access to watermelon and strawberry for lunch . how refreshing that be , because they would certainly not be at the top of my child ' s list of thing for lunch , so the school be obviously do a great job on educate its young people on healthy eating . UK Sport - support event generate £ 373 million in 2023 alone . Luton Hoo in my constituency be bid to be a venue for the 2031 Ryder cup . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on attract major international sporting event to the UK as part of support our growth agenda , attract local investment , provide good job and inspire pride in local community ? absolutely . England have not host the Ryder cup since 2002 . I know that Luton Hoo have a strong bid to host it , and I wish it the very good . she be absolutely right that big sporting event bring huge amount of regeneration , economic input , job and opportunity , as well as give pride in place for constituent like hers . tamworth town centre be be obliterate by roadwork that start on Monday . Staffordshire county council have not properly consult or inform school , business , resident or the borough council . a hotel have lose £ 700 of business in 24 hour ; traffic be at a standstill ; and roadwork be go through the night — my community be rightly up in arm . can we have a statement on how the Government be hold council to account to ensure that they be not undermine the Government ' s growth agenda around core administration and planning , particularly around roadwork ? this issue will be familiar to many of we in the House . poorly carry out roadwork can cause a great deal of disruption to people and business , like those in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I hope that her local council will have hear her call , and I encourage the council to get a grip of this project so it do not cause such disruption . last year , the Government announce an extra £ 1 million for boost antisocial - behaviour patrol across Cumbria , which be extremely welcome . since then , we have see a huge reduction in antisocial behaviour in those hotspot in Cleator Moor , Workington and Whitehaven . under the leadership of the brilliant Labour police commissioner in Cumbria and the Government ' s support , we be put an extra £ 1 . 7 million in for the come year . would the Leader of the House thank the member of the public who have come forward to report crime and share intelligence and thank the officer who have do so much to bring down crime ? I be pleased to hear that action be be take in my hon . friend ' s constituency on crime and antisocial behaviour , because it be such a blight on our community and get raise with we as member of Parliament all the time . as part of our safe street mission , the Government be commit to reduce antisocial behaviour and crime . my hon . friend describe some of the measure that we have bring in , and many more will be in the upcoming crime and police Bill , include respect order , dispersal order and tough action on quad bike . my constituent David Freeman be a nuclear test veteran who be deploy to Christmas island . since he return , he have face a range of health issue , include cancer . he be rightly award the nuclear test medal , but much more need to be do to recognise and compensate veteran like David . like many , he have be unable to access his medical record . will the Leader of the House join I in thank David and all nuclear test veteran , and will she provide time for an update on this important issue , include on medical record and compensation ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in thank David and all our nuclear test veteran . we owe they a great debt of gratitude for what they do and what they put themselves through for this country . we be look into the unresolved question about the medical record . it be a priority , and I hope that the House will be update on the matter as soon as there be something to say . I welcome the announcement that there will be a public inquiry into what lead to the tragic killing of three people in Nottingham in 2023 . this follow the publication of the independent mental health homicide review into the case last week . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate or statement to consider the finding of the review to ensure that , while the public inquiry take place , important lesson be learn immediately in every part of the mental health system to prevent similar case ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . I be sure that the whole House will join I in send our condolence once again to the family of those who be kill in that horrific attack . the Prime Minister meet those family this week , and he confirm that a retired judge will be appoint in due course , that the process will begin to ensure there be a proper inquiry , and that the family get answer to all those unanswered question . the detail of the inquiry will be announce to Parliament in due course , and I will ensure that my hon . friend be inform . Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council be axe care service . at Thomas Fields care centre in Buxton , the council be cut residential bed and dementia bed , mean that Alan and June , who be 96 and 91 , have be marry for 72 year and have never be apart , will be separate . will the Leader of the House support a debate in Government time to protect care service across Conservative - lead derbyshire and help Alan and June stay together ? I be really sorry to hear of what could happen to Alan and June — it be just unthinkable — and of the propose closure of the care home . it will not help my hon . friend ' s constituent right now , but the Government be obviously commit to sort out the social care crisis , and that be why we have a special commission lead by Baroness Louise Casey . but I hope that Derbyshire county council have hear his question and will ensure that every step be take to ensure that his constituent can stay together in the final day of their life . I be pleased to support the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill on Monday to deliver on our election promise of implement the Border Security Command , tackle the organise immigration crime gang and bring order to our asylum and immigration system . however , for most people , it be not possible to claim asylum from outside the UK , which mean that any asylum seeker have to make their way to this country first before they can claim asylum . that have lead to many call , include from mp , to provide safe and legal route for asylum seeker . do the Leader of the House agree that after achieve border security , we need to have a debate on provide an alternative way of seek asylum so that genuine asylum seeker do not feel the need to risk their life cross the channel in small , unsafe boat to claim asylum ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we do need to take further step to secure our border , because the level of illegal immigration come into this country be not acceptable . that undermine the whole system that he have describe , and trust in that system , which be there for those who need it most and be flee persecution , or who want to make a home for themselves in this country . we will always do our bit to help those who be flee persecution . it be a long - stand policy that those who arrive in this country illegally be not eligible for citizenship , but I will certainly make sure that the Home Secretary keep the House update on these important matter . Corseford college in my constituency be Scotland ' s only further education college for people with complex and additional need . after an anxious few month , that college have learn that funding have be secure for the next two year . do the Leader of the House agree that college such as Corseford need long - term security of funding to plan and build their support for people with complex need in Scotland , and would she be willing to have a debate on long - term support for college service for young adult with complex and additional need ? absolutely . college such as Corseford in my hon . friend ' s constituency , which provide education and support for those with complex need , be vital for our young people , and I be sorry to hear about the uncertainty it have face . this Government have boost funding for college , but this be a devolved matter , so I hope that the Scottish Government , who have now receive a significant increase to their funding , will follow suit and ensure that college such as Corseford be secure for the long term . yesterday , I host " Taste of Colne Valley " , at which we celebrate the rich diversity of local business , feature J Brindon Addy butcher , Zapato Brewing , Longley Farm and Dark Woods Coffee . People be able to come along and sample home - make sausage roll , yoghurt , ipa and coffee . that event emphasise how important it be to support locally run business in our community , something I have long advocate . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss the significance of support local business ? absolutely — I be all for support local business , especially one that serve sausage roll and beer . I be sure we can all be encourage to continue to do that . my hon . friend be absolutely right : shop local and shopping independent support our vital high street in community such as his , and I be sure that we all welcome his comment . as we have hear , it be National Apprenticeship Week . in constituency such as mine , apprenticeship be hugely important for people secure good job underpin by strong skill . give the Government ' s commitment to growth , support by a lot of infrastructure project and building , do the Leader of the House agree that we need to make sure that an apprenticeship scheme be embed in each of those project , so that we be build not just infrastructure but job and skill ? will she use her good office to make sure that challenge be pick up across Government ? absolutely . without apprenticeship reform , and without increase the number of young people who can access apprenticeship , we will not be able to meet our big ambition for house building , infrastructure and other programme . that be why we have begin the process of reform : we have make announcement this week about functional English and math , the Bill to establish Skills England will come before the House after we return from recess , and there be many other thing that we be do . I join my hon . friend in that call . on 1 April , Tory - run Hampshire county council will remove the ability of those with disability to use their concessionary bus pass before 9 . 30 am . multiple constituent have write to I in great distress about the impact this will have on they and their family member . one mother write to I to tell I how that bus pass have give her daughter , who have autism and learn difficulty , incredible opportunity and independence , include access to education . I be call on Hampshire county council to think again . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to debate this important issue ? I be sorry to hear that Hampshire county council have remove the ability of disabled people to use their concessionary bus pass before 9 . 30 am . that decision be of great concern ; it fly in the face of what that this government — and , in fact , this country — should be seek to do , which be to support those with disability to get an education , in order to help they to work . clearly , this decision go in the opposite direction . before I call Helena Dollimore to ask the final question , I would like to note that we have get 55 people in . I thank the Leader of the House very much for her persistence and her devotion to business question . at a time when local news organisation be close or be cut back , we in my constituency of Hastings , Rye and the village be very lucky to have two fantastic independent news organisation , Rye News and the Hastings Independent Press , both of which be celebrate their 10th anniversary . they be volunteer - lead , and those volunteer do a huge job , update the community on what be go on and hold people such as myself to account . will the Leader of the House join I in wish they a happy 10th birthday and thank they for all their hard work ? I join my hon . friend in thank Rye News and the Hastings Independent Press , on the occasion of their 10th anniversary , for all the amazing work they do . she be absolutely right that local journalism — however difficult it might be at time for we as local mp — be vital to our medium and our community in unearth and report on important story that be often miss by many . infected Blood Compensation Scheme Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to provide an update to the House on the progress make to provide compensation to victim of the infected blood scandal . in May 2024 , the infected blood inquiry ' s report expose a catalogue of failure at the systematic , collective and individual level . thousand of life be needlessly lose , and too many people continue to suffer as a result of failure stretch back decade . I welcome the commitment across the House to hold the Government to account on respond to the inquiry ' s recommendation , and I will continue to provide regular update on the Government ' s progress . in December 2024 , I publish the Government ' s response to the infected blood inquiry . in that response , on behalf of the UK Government and work closely with the devolved government , I accept either in full or in principle all 12 of the inquiry ' s recommendation . I will provide a further update on those recommendation in May of this year , as request by the inquiry . I will now update the House specifically on the inquiry ' s recommendation on compensation . in August 2024 , I establish the infected blood compensation scheme in regulation . that enable the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to begin make compensation payment to people who be infect . I be pleased that IBCA deliver on our share commitment to make the first compensation payment by the end of last year . that be a significant step , and the work to progress payment quickly continue as an absolute priority . yesterday , I lay before Parliament the draft Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2025 . as those regulation be subject to the draft affirmative procedure , there will be an opportunity for parliamentarian to debate and approve they before they become law . when lay before the House the previous regulation to establish the scheme for people who be infect and be claim compensation under the core route , I make a commitment on the Floor of this House that those regulation would come into force by 31 March , subject to parliamentary approval . I would welcome the support of the House in approve those regulation , enable we to deliver compensation to those who deserve it as quickly as possible . I be fully aware of how important it be to the House , and to the many victim of this appalling scandal , that the Government provide clear and regular update on our progress in establish the infected blood compensation scheme . I have therefore come before the House today to explain the step that have be take and what they mean . once approve by Parliament and in force , the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2025 will provide ibca with the power it need to begin make payment to eligible affected people . by way of a reminder , those affect include partner , parent , child , sibling and , in some instance , carer . those people have suffer terribly from the impact of infected blood on their love one , and these regulation mark a significant milestone for they . the Government will do all we can to support ibca ' s aim of the first compensation payment to eligible affected people be make before the end of this year , and by lay these regulation we be a step close to achieve that aim . as we set out in August , the infected blood compensation scheme be tariff - base . the tariff be intend to work in a way that would be appropriate for the majority of people apply to the scheme . however , we know that the impact infect blood have on people ' s live vary hugely . each person ' s experience be unique and heart - breaking , and the Government recognise that there be some exceptional case where the level of compensation offer through the core route do not sufficiently address a person ' s individual circumstance . for that reason , the Government have provide for high level of compensation for specific award through the supplementary route , where people can demonstrate their eligibility . the regulation I have lay before Parliament set out the detail of that supplementary route . once in force , the regulation will allow ibca to make payment to eligible people through both the core and supplementary route . all applicant will need to go through their initial core route assessment before apply to the supplementary route , but do so will not delay payment of that initial core compensation offer . the regulation I have lay propose to restate and consolidate the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2024 , which be approve by Parliament in October last year . we have do that primarily for reason of simplicity . have a single set of regulation that consolidate the provision mean that it have be possible to cover all compensation route for all eligible people in a single place . alongside the draft regulation , yesterday we publish an accompany explanatory memorandum and equality impact assessment . we also update the compensation scheme explainer on gov . uk . I have hear from the community the importance of a simple document , so I commit today to the publishing of a wide , simple document . I have already engage with several hon . and right hon . member across the House in recent day , and I will continue to do so on the substance of these regulation in the come week . I would also like to welcome the progress be make in deliver compensation . in addition to the over £ 1 billion of interim compensation payment that have be pay so far , IBCA have now invite 113 people to claim compensation . so far , 23 offer have be make , total over £ 34 million , and 14 offer have be accept and pay , total over £ 13 million . ibca remain on track to invite 250 people to apply by the end of March , and it will continue to publish its monthly statistic on its website . however , this be only the beginning , and there be much more work to do . this week , IBCA set out its plan to open the compensation service in stage to make sure it be effective and secure for all those claim . this decision be take independently of the Government by the IBCA board . the group that IBCA will work through as it build the claim service will be as follow . the first will be people who be live infected and be already register with a support scheme . IBCA already have the detail of those people through the infected blood support scheme , and it begin make payment to this group in 2024 . IBCA intend to accelerate the number of claim it be process from April . the second stage will be people make supplementary claim . the regulation I be lay provide ibca with the ability to process these claim . as ibca develop its service , this will it to process the different type of evidence need for supplementary claim and allow people to settle their claim in full as quickly as possible . People who have register estate be in the third group IBCA have set out . this be where an estate have already be verify as eligible for compensation through the interim payment scheme that I announce in October last year . this will ensure that significant compensation can reach multiple people , who could include both those who be infect and those who be affect . People who be affect and link to a register infected person or a register estate will be in the fourth group . if an infected person or an estate be register , this will allow ibca to progress an affected person ' s claim more quickly . the fifth group that the service will be develop for be people who be infect , but not register with a support scheme . the sixth group will be people who be either apply on behalf of an infected person who have not previously be register with an infected blood support scheme , or people who be affect and not link to a register claim . IBCA expect that it may take slightly long to work through the claim of people who have not previously be register for compensation . the IBCA board assure I that this be in no way intend as a prioritisation of different claimant , but be the good way of build the service so that ibca can get to the point where it can progress all claim as quickly as possible . crucially , it do not mean that all claim in each group need to be finish before develop and open the service for the next group . IBCA have communicate its decision on its website and through the regular community update , and it have write to member of the infected blood community and right hon . and hon . member with whom it have previously engage to inform they of its plan . determine these grouping be a heavy responsibility , and I be pleased that IBCA seek feedback from the infected blood community in reach this decision . the community must , after all , be keep at the centre of all this work . while the roll - out of the scheme be an operational decision for ibca as an independent body , I fully support its commitment to move forward as swiftly as possible , and I be encourage to see the dedication of its staff and leadership in my visit to the organisation last month . as compensation application increase , I know that ibca be determined to ensure payment be make to people as soon as possible . I will set out more detail on this in due course , but it will include key performance indicator that IBCA will be work towards to make sure that compensation claim be deal with effectively and efficiently . of course , decision on the parameter of and eligibility for the scheme remain one for the Government , subject to parliamentary approval , as be set out in the regulation I have lay , and be not impact by ibca ' s decision . let I conclude by say that in lay these regulation , we be one step close to have the entire infect blood compensation scheme fully establish in law . I understand the importance of provide an opportunity for everyone across the House to debate this matter . this will be another significant moment for all those who have wait too long . on 30 January , I be able to meet a number of representative from the community to update they on the Government ' s plan . as ever , I find it an invaluable experience , and I be hugely grateful to those who share their thought and experience . on my appointment to this role in July , I be determined to meet the first statutory deadline of 24 August for the first set of regulation . over the past seven month , I have be insistent to my official and the community on the importance of make sure that , after 40 year of injustice , justice be now finally be deliver and compensation rightly be pay . the Budget announce £ 11 . 8 billion of funding for this compensation scheme , show the scale of this Government ' s commitment to concrete action . I hope parliamentarian across both Houses will support the regulation , so we can finally focus solely on deliver compensation to those who have wait for justice for far too long . I commend this statement to this House . I remind the Minister that statement should be limit to 10 minute and that it be courteous to let the Speaker ' s Office know if a statement will exceed this time . the Opposition will of course be allocate additional time . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his very thorough statement and for advance sight of it . I want to start by thank the campaigner and victim who have spend year push for justice for this terrible tragedy that occur over a number of decade . the previous Conservative Government take the first step towards recognise the horrific wrong inflict on so many patient and their loved one in opening and conclude the inquiry into the infected blood scandal , but particular acknowledgement must go to my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) who work so hard when he be Paymaster General to make sure that victim and their family could at last receive some degree of justice . I welcome the progress the Government have make since the election . parliamentary politic inevitably focus on division and there be plenty on which we profoundly disagree with the Government , but on this matter we speak as one . there be nothing of substance that the right hon . Gentleman and his Department be do that be meaningfully different from what we would have do if we have still be in government . we will of course review the legislation on the next stage of the infected blood compensation scheme , but the Minister and all who be campaign for justice can be assure that we will support the Government in their effort . we welcome the start of compensation payment by ibca , but we know that victim have raise concern about the pace of processing application for compensation . I hope the Minister can confirm what measure he be put in place to ensure that the processing capacity within the authority be adequate and that application processing can be speed up , because the next phase of the compensation framework will mean that application to the authority could increase by ten of thousand . all victim and their family need to know what be be do to ensure that those claim can be process at pace . I be concern by report that only a very small fraction of those who may be eligible to claim compensation have be contact so far ; one estimate put it as low as 0 . 2 % of possible claimant , although I recognise that such estimate can sometimes be out of date . I hope the Minister will be able to provide some clarity on the percentage of those believe to be eligible who have be contact so far . I know that the Minister will understand the need for the Government to communicate clearly to all who may be eligible to encourage they to apply . that reinforce the importance that must be place on processing claim quickly . those who be eligible must have confidence that their claim will be accurately and quickly process so that they receive the payment they be entitle to as soon as possible . I appreciate , of course , the stage manner in which the authority be take claim and the need to prioritise certain claim , but I hope the Government can reiterate clearly that no one need to worry about the capacity within the authority and the system , particularly in relation to claim that will be process in the later stage . I ask the Minister to offer some clarity on his assessment of whether the funding allocate so far will cover all the expect claim . we know that up to 140 , 000 relative could apply for compensation as a result of the plan expansion of claim eligibility . while the government understandably can not provide an exact estimate of the total funding require , that would go some way to offer reassurance to victim and their family that the funding for the authority to compensate in full all who suffer harm or loss and for all the operational requirement of the authority be properly provide for . all of we in this House understand the scale and damage of this scandal and recognise the immense effort of victim and their family in push for justice , and we welcome the laying of the regulation . I conclude by repeat my assurance on behalf of his Majesty ' s Opposition that we will work with the Government to ensure that everyone who be eligible be aware and that they receive the compensation that they need and deserve as quickly as possible . I will make sure that your stricture about time be properly communicate across Government , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I start by echo the comment of the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) about my predecessor as Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , who do so much in government to push this forward ? just as I offer cross - party support when shadow he , the continued cross - party support today be very important in respect of the speed at which we be able to push forward with the legal framework we be put in place . on the issue of speed , I be restless for progress . while ibca be of course an arm ' s length body and have operational independence , I will none the less have more to say in due course about key performance indicator , as the House will want to continue to raise the speed of payment be make to constituent . I entirely agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s comment about clarity of communication . I be forever emphasise the need for simple explainer document on what be complex regulation . finally , the Government have already allocate £ 11 . 8 billion in funding for the operation of ibca and for compensation , and we be commit to compensate all the victim of this terrible scandal . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the progress he have make in seven month , not least on the £ 11 . 8 billion he secure in the Budget ; he deserve credit for that . it be regrettable that we lose a year from Sir Brian Langstaff ' s second interim report in which he give his final recommendation on compensation , state that the Government have no reason to delay set up the compensation process . I know my right hon . friend be aware that there be still concern about the tariff , particularly among those infect with hepatitis C and those who endure unethical testing . do he agree that , while we must move ahead with all haste to get people the justice they deserve , ibca must have flexibility in its decision when deal with those who feel that the tariff do not recognise the suffering they have endure ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work he do as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood . obviously the tariff be set on the basis of the expert group chair by Sir Jonathan Montgomery and I compliment he on the work he do in that regard . however , the tariff and the scheme also recognise particular individual circumstance and case that be more complex . that be why the supplemental route be be put in place . I would add that I see when I visit ibca — I understand that my hon . friend will be visit shortly — the sympathetic , compassionate approach be take with regard to evidence , give how long ago so much of this happen . I call Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats be glad to see the introduction of this legislation and the extension of the infected blood compensation scheme . this scandal be a chilling story of people be fail not only by the medical professional who treat they but by the NHS that should have be responsible for the safety of their treatment , and by a series of government who should have prevent the scandal from ever take place . we be glad that the new regulation will move the victim , both those infect and those affected , close to long overdue justice . however , we be deeply concerned by the speed at which victim have be receive compensation , with only 25 people have be invite to claim by December last year . it be right that the Government be now widen the scheme so that compensation reach many more people as soon as possible . it be also crucial that there be mechanism in place to ensure that the concern of the charity , organisation and affected individual be hear . to that end , and to provide confidence to victim and their family , will the Minister outline a timeline for when all victim can expect to have receive their long overdue compensation ? furthermore , will the Government introduce a duty of candour on public official so that such a scandal be never repeat ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that this scandal go across decade and across government . while compensation be obviously one of the crucial recommendation , there be a total of 12 recommendation from Sir Brian Langstaff , on which I will be update the House in due course . at present , IBCA will meet its target of 250 people by the end of next month . the approach it be take be one of test and learn . that enable ibca to scale up more quickly to be able to do what we all want it to do , which be to get compensation as quickly as reasonably possible to those who need it . I would expect the first payment to the affect to begin before the end of this year . finally , on the duty of candour , which be another of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation , I expect to be introduce legislation to this House on that before 15 April , which , of course , be the hillsborough anniversary . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . I want to focus on what he say about the progress be make in deliver compensation for victim and their family . I recently meet a constituent of mine , Sue Sparkes , who lose her husband Les owe to infected blood in 1990 . she be concerned that it will take many , many year to make all these payment . I do not doubt my right hon . friend ' s commitment and passion on this issue to tackle injustice and deliver the culture change that be need , but will he assure Sue and I that every lever of government be be pull to ensure that all payment to infect and affected individual be make as a matter of urgency ? I can certainly give that assurance both to my hon . friend and to his constituent , Sue . the Government will continue to push this forward as quickly as be reasonably possible . I be conscious of the strength of feeling , and I be also conscious that victim have wait decade for justice , and that need for speed be recognise across Government . every member of this House should welcome this statement , as I certainly do , as there be no great horror imaginable than become chronically sick as a result of what ought to be a routine medical procedure — a blood transfusion . will the right hon . Gentleman , follow on from the previous question , ensure that these matter be deal with promptly ? will he reflect on what the report into these matter describe as institutional failure ? the National Audit Office look at compensation for a range of scandal and conclude : " there be no central coordinate approach when government set up new compensation scheme result in a relatively slow , ad - hoc approach . " the report recommend that the Cabinet Office review its arrangement to " allow compensation scheme to begin and operate in a more timely … and effective manner " . when the Minister return to the House , will he reflect on that recommendation and perhaps say to the House what the Government will do in response ? the right hon . Gentleman make a powerful point , and what be crucial , whether it be this compensation scheme or other that have be run by Government , be that we learn the lesson between the different compensation scheme and we learn good practice . I absolutely agree with he that that be crucial with this compensation scheme , too . I thank the Minister for his statement . Brian Heatlie , a haemophiliac , be give infected blood product in 1982 at the age of five . as a result , he die in 1996 at the age of 18 . his devoted parent , Lynda and James , from New Mills in my constituency of High Peak , have be wait 28 year for compensation , and they be now in their 70 . can the Minister confirm that the new regulation will mean that it may be possible for victim who have lose love one in this scandal , such as Lynda and James , to receive both their own compensation and compensation for the estate of their love one ? I think I speak for the whole House in send our sympathy to Lynda and James for the indescribable sense of loss and the experience that they have be through over so many year . the answer to my hon . friend ' s question be yes . these consolidated regulation be for the estate of infected people , but also for the affected , too . but I know , and the whole House would agree , that no amount of money can make up for that awful experience . I thank the Minister most sincerely for his statement . nobody in the House be not reassure by what he have say . he also refer to the regional Administrations and how this will affect they , and he have have those discussion with they . there be report today that only 0 . 2 % of eligible family member have be contact about the scheme , and there be concern that the scheme do not have the capacity to cope with the number of potential applicant . can the Minister outline how he will ensure that there be capacity for all those family to have a sense of recognition and to be definite about a form of restitution ? first , in term of number , as I indicate , IBCA be operate a test and learn approach that then allow it to scale up . it will scale up its capacity alongside that , to ensure that it have the capacity it require to process the claim . as I indicate , I visit ibca last month . I can already see that scale up start to take place , and the hon . Member can certainly give assurance to his constituent that the Government will continue to do all we can to ensure the swift delivery of compensation . I thank my right hon . friend for today ' s update . my West Dunbartonshire constituent , Fiona , be infect with hepatitis B follow blood transfusion in 1954 and 1985 . Fiona be apparently not entitle to any form of support or compensation payment because of miss medical record and because of receive a transfusion both before and after the 1972 cut - off relate to screen for hepatitis B . will the Minister agree to meet my constituent and I to discuss this matter and ensure that she and other affect in similar circumstance — apparently a small number — can receive compensation and justice under this Labour Government ? generally , with regard to evidence , the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have say that when an individual be invite to make their claim , it will aim to gather some of the information , include medical record and information about an applicant ' s condition and severity , from organisation that already have it . that should mean that those claim will be ask for the least amount of information possible . I know that IBCA be currently consider what guidance can be provide for people ahead of make a claim . on the specific case of my hon . friend ' s constituent , Fiona , if he send I the detail , I be more than happy to look into it . may I thank the Minister for the thoroughness and thoughtfulness with which he have make his statement ? I think he would agree that there be still issue around speed , quantum , flexibility and care . be I right in think that IBCA do not have any flexibility about the amount of damage pay ? if so , can he give a rough indication of what sort of compensation be pay when someone have lose their life as a result of be poison by the NHS ? be it the case that people have to make an individual settlement and agreement on what they will accept ? if so , be there any professional support that someone , who might be quite ill , can get before sign on the dotted line and possibly sign away their right to more compensation than they might otherwise receive ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about tariff , they have be set out and publish . there be then assessment to be make about severity within the tariff band . there be also , as I have indicate , the supplementary route for more complex case . I can not give he a single figure across these case as they obviously vary , but the House will gradually see the overall amount be publish by ibca . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s second point , a victim make an application to the IBCA will be give a particular claim manager — I meet the first claim manager only in recent week — to speak to and guide they through the process , which be crucial . I know that the culture imbue by Sir Robert Francis be an enable one about help victim , particularly with evidence . I have also sign off both legal support and financial support , because it be about receive what be , in many case , life - change sum of money . may I first thank my right hon . friend for the update ? despite his sterling effort — I really mean that — the process have take far too long . victim be die at the rate of two per week , never have see the compensation they deserve . victim be very much unaware of , and desperate to understand , what and how much compensation they might even be due under the process . can the Minister say how many of the 5 , 000 infect victim will be invite to apply to the scheme during 2025 ? have he consider , or be there potential to consider , allow victim to take support scheme payment as a lump sum without any reduction ? on people ' s have a sense of the amount of money they will get , the Government publish explainer document in August last year — and in recent day — that be on the Government website . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be intend to publish a compensation calculator for the infected core award by the end of March . on my hon . friend ' s other point , the number of victim pay will be regularly publish by the ibca during the course of the year . the payment to the infected have start , and I expect payment to the affect to begin before the end of the year . as regard the support scheme , one change that the Government make be to allow both a lump sum payment and the continuation of the support scheme . that come through from the consultation that Sir Robert Francis undertake during the general election campaign . I have make that change to the scheme , and how that work precisely be set out in the explainer document . I be grateful to the Paymaster General for the update ; indeed , I be grateful that he have give several update to the House . my North East Fife constituent be infect a number of year ago and involve in the campaign for a long time . he have share concern about the evidential standard expect of claimant , particularly in relation to medical record . indeed , his lawyer have tell I that they have concern that case manager be not correctly interpret the initial date of infection because medical record be not available to substantiate that . they also have concern that the Australia antigen have not be properly understand as an indicator of HBV . be the Paymaster General aware of those concern ? can he comment on they ? the hon . Lady be entirely right to raise the issue of evidence . there be the specific issue that she refer to , but there be also a far more general problem about incident often be from a long time ago . we also know that in some case there be deliberate destruction of record . the level of evidence be therefore clearly a significant issue . as I have indicate , when I visit the IBCA , I hear from claim manager about the approach they be take and the culture that be be imbue — an enable culture — and about how the ibca will aim to gather some of the information to assist victim , which I think will be a vital part of the process . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and his commitment to this issue . will he say a little more about how he be work with colleague in Scotland to drive forward the final compensation scheme ? I share the concern already express by hon . member across the House about the need for speed in ensure that victim receive the compensation that they so rightly deserve . I assure my hon . friend that I work closely with the devolved administration on the issue of compensation . there be a broad point as well : event that take place in the 1970 , 1980 and beyond occur in the pre - devolution age . over the next few month , as we look to implement the rest of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation , partnership work with the devolved administration will become even more important . I thank the Paymaster General for an advance copy of his statement . I recognise his sincerity , and the hard work that he and his colleague be put into progress this vital compensation scheme . I also understand the need for he and his colleague to take small initial step to test their system and process , but as other have say , legal representative fear that many will die while they wait , and justice delay be justice deny . do he really think that be good enough , give the number involve ? will he consider strengthen the authority ' s team who be process these claim , so that the pace can be rapidly accelerate , and so that they can meet the forthcoming key performance indicator to which he refer ? finally , the last time we speak about the scheme in the Chamber , he undertake to look at the role of voluntary organisation that provide vital support to claimant , and to consider put funding for they on a statutory basis . will he comment on that as well , please ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , he mention I and my colleague , but of course ibca be an arm ' s length body — it be operationally independent — so it take operationally independent decision on how good to pay out the money to as many people as possible , as quickly as possible . as I say , it have decide to adopt a test - and - learn approach to make that possible . one of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation be that we look at support for voluntary organisation . that will be cover in an update that I will give to the House in due course on all 12 recommendation . however , I give the hon . Gentleman the general assurance that I be , and will continue to be , restless for progress . on his point about IBCA scale up and have more staff and claim manager , that be precisely what it be do at the moment . I thank the Minister for his statement and update . in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , I have a constituent , Janet , who be in her 80 . she tragically lose she first and second husband to infect blood , and she be due to receive compensation as their next of kin . she would like to ensure that she can pass the payment on to their child , who , as the Minister rightly say , be victim , too . however , she have be advise that if that happen , it would constitute a secondary transfer and be subject to inheritance tax . we be talk about people who lose their father and stepfather to this issue . will he meet I to explore whether a solution can be find in these case ? first , I should say for clarity that all ibca payment make to those in the UK will be exempt from income tax , capital gain tax and inheritance tax . anyone who be in direct receipt of compensation from IBCA , or be a beneficiary of an estate to which compensation be pay on behalf of the deceased , do not need to pay income tax , capital gain tax or inheritance tax on the amount that they receive . I be aware of the concern that my hon . friend be talk about ; that be a slightly different situation . if she write to I with the detail of the case , I will be more than happy to look into it . I thank the Paymaster General not only for his statement , but for the clarity and commitment in his answer . as he may remember from previous occasion in the Chamber , I have the personal experience of have lose a very close family friend in the 1990 who be a victim of this . his widow die without compensation , and his child be now among those wait to hear what will happen . I thank the Minister for his application and commitment , but as other have mention , there remain the issue of speed and good practice go forward . he mention that he will simplify the process . can we have update from he in future on what the Government be do to examine good practice , and how can future victim of such scandal be assure that they will not have to wait as long as 40 year ? as on the last occasion , I express my sympathy to the hon . Lady for the loss of her family friend back in the 1990 . of course , I be always look to share good practice , as I say a moment ago to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who be no long in his place . that be vital . I can also give the hon . Lady the undertaking that I will continue to update this House , as I hope right hon . and hon . member have see I do over the past seven month . there will also be a debate on the regulation . I will have to give an update on the 12 recommendation from Sir Brian Langstaff by the May deadline , but ibca will also provide regular update via our newsletter , and I refer she to those as well . point of order : Rectification Procedure on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to apologise to the House for fail to declare an interest when table a write parliamentary question to the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology on 24 April 2024 , and then when table a write parliamentary question to the Deputy Foreign Secretary on 13 May 2024 . when I table these question , I inadvertently fail to declare two interest : a reception at the Labour party conference that be sponsor by the high commission of India , and a visit to India that be fund by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry . this be in breach of the rule , and I apologise to the House for this error . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . there will be no further point of order on that issue . Bill Presented Church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Pat McFadden , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , Secretary Ian Murray , Secretary Bridget Phillipson and Nick Thomas - Symonds , present a Bill to make provision for person of the roman catholic faith to be eligible to hold the office of his Majesty ' s High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 24 February , and to be print ( Bill 185 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 185 - en ) . LGBT + history Month I beg to move , that this House have consider LGBT + history Month . for most people under the age of 40 , it be almost impossible to imagine a society in which LGBT + people be not visible and integrate . Most , if not all , of we have LGBT + family , friend and colleague ; in this Chamber , one in 10 member identifie as LGBT + , a world record for any Parliament , as far as we know . yet it be not long ago that LGBT + people be either invisible or villainise . if an LGBT + person be hospitalise , their partner be not recognise as next of kin . Trans people on tv be confine to clich é s and offensive stereotype . accord to the paper , LGBT + people be deviant to be fear . that british society be now largely a welcoming place for LGBT + people be due to the tireless and patient effort of countless individual and group , from the early effort of campaigner in the 1950 , quietly seek the recommendation of Lord Wolfenden and see they make into law , to the loud protest against section 28 in the 1980 and the move fight for marriage equality in the 2010 . these people have not only drive change , but enrich our society . the Stonewall riot in America be a landmark moment in the global fight for LGBT + equality . from then on , unapologetic visibility and authenticity would be the banner under which LGBT + people would organise . those lesson be learn , and be adapt to the UK , where we have our own history of struggle for LGBT + equality . our first Pride march be hold in 1972 , when a few hundred brave soul wound their way from Hyde Park to Trafalgar Square . the trepidation those individual must have experience may be hard for many of we today to imagine ; yet alongside their trepidation , there must also have be a strong sense of action , achievement and community . it be undoubtedly that sense of community that play a part in one of the more colourful moment in our history . some 37 year ago , in this very building , in an inverse of " it ' s Raining Men " , a number of lesbian abseil their way from the Public Gallery on to the Benches of the other place in protest against the passing of section 28 . back in Wales , in the area my family be from , the traditional mining community of the Neath , Swansea and Dulais valley be perhaps somewhat bemused to be support financially and morally during the miner ' strike of 1984 by Lesbians and Gays support the Miners ; in turn , they be repay by the legendary friendship and loyalty of many of those in the mining community in 1985 , when the miner show their support by join the Pride marche in Cardiff and London . I thank my hon . friend for her incredible speech and for her commitment to this House . I know of my hon . friend ' s journey when she be a teacher . do she agree that it be important for ally to stick together and fight for other people ' s right , as well as our own , if we be truly to move forward with recognise and appreciate people and allow they to be their authentic self ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we have to stick together in the fight for right . I know she have be a fantastic ally of the LGBT + community . I be proud to say that the history of LGBT + right in this country be intertwine with the history of Labour in government . it be a Labour Government who decriminalise homosexuality in 1967 , and a Labour Government who equalise the age of consent in 2000 and repeal the hateful section 28 in 2003 . it be a Labour Government who lift the ban on LGBT + people serve in the armed force ; create the Gender Recognition Act 2004 ; pioneer civil partnership ; introduce law to allow unmarried couple , include same - sex couple , to apply for adoption ; and lay down the landmark Equality Act 2010 . with each milestone , consensus emerge across the political spectrum that LGBT + people deserve protection , recognition and opportunity . LGBT + people be finally view as just that : people . even the Conservative party , long oppose to much of what I have just outline , begin to change its view . it be , after all , a conservative Prime Minister , in coalition with the Liberal Democrats , who introduce same - sex marriage into law , albeit heavily dependent on labour vote . on that point , I give a special thank to Baroness Featherstone , the then liberal Democrat Equalities Minister who push through the marriage ( same Sex Couples ) Act 2013 with tireless effort . however , in recent year , that consensus have begin to fray . increasingly , voice across society and this Chamber be push division , anxiety and apprehension . while the tone of debate on LGBT + right have always be contentious , the level of toxicity have perhaps never be so intense . our answer to this must be to lead by example and conduct ourselves in measure , consider and respectful language . it be vital that we — regardless of party or position — promote a tone and quality of debate that , while at time may provoke impassioned disagreement , refuse to lower itself to the politic of division and anxiety . for decade , Labour in government have seek to advance the right , protection and opportunity of LGBT + people , and this Government be no different . take , for example , conversion practice . we know that they be abuse , that they do not work and that they leave a legacy of painful memory and last mental health problem . the previous Government do nothing to ban this abhorrent practice — this Government will be different . that be why we commit to publish draft legislation in the King ' s Speech , detail our plan to introduce a fully trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice . of course , while it be important that we protect people from these abusive practice , the Government have be clear that any ban must not cover legitimate psychological support , treatment or non - directive counselling . it must also respect the important role that teacher , religious leader , parent and carer can play in support those explore their sexual orientation or gender identity . in our manifesto , we also commit to modernising , simplify and reform gender recognition law while uphold the Equality Act and its provision on single - sex exception . we will remove indignity for trans people , who deserve support and acceptance , while retain the need for a diagnosis of gender dysphoria from a specialist doctor . we will set out our next step on this work in due course . I want to touch on the important work this Government be undertake around sexual health . everyone in this House today be aware of the terrible toll that HIV and AIDS take upon the LGBT + community during the 1980 and ' 90 . during this time , thousand of young gay and bisexual man and trans people lose their life . since then , attitude have change through the work of so many courageous individual . many of we remember the courage of the then MP for Islington and South Finsbury , Chris , now Lord , Smith . already the first openly gay MP , in 2005 he announce his HIV - positive status , become the first Member of this House to acknowledge their diagnosis . as set out in our manifesto , HIV be a key priority for the Government , and we have commission a new plan to end HIV transmission in England by 2030 . we have show our commitment to that . just this week , the Prime Minister show we all how easy and quick an HIV test can be . back in November , the Prime Minister confirm £ 27 million of additional funding to expand the highly successful NHS emergency department opt - out HIV testing programme . in regard to opt - out testing , we know it work well and be able to reach those who be less likely to engage with sexual health service . during the past 27 month , over 2 million HIV test have be conduct through the programme . I be not go to intervene on that point , but I be remind of my Uncle Stephen who sadly pass away in the ' 90 follow a positive HIV diagnosis and I want to take this opportunity to mention he in this place . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you . do the Minister agree that it be so important that we end the stigma around HIV to support more people , so that people like my Uncle Stephen do not have their life end prematurely ? I thank my hon . friend for mention a very , very personal experience of the terrible loss we see in the 1980 and 1990 . he be absolutely right . from those very first moment , when we be perhaps fearful to be the first person to wear the red ribbon on 1 December , we can now hopefully combat that stigma . but we know there be still a lot to do worldwide to combat stigma and ensure people get the treatment that be available . last week , I have the privilege to visit Fast Track Cymru in Cardiff and hear about the innovative work it be do to eradicate the transmission of HIV , include the test and post service now available in Wales . before I move on to issue relate to trans and gender - question youth , I be sure I do not need to remind member of my early word urge measure , consider and respectful debate . I be pleased to confirm that NHS England have open three child and young people ' s gender service , in the north - west , London and Bristol . the service operate under an innovative model and embed multidisciplinary team in specialist child ' s hospital . the service have begin see patient from the national waiting list . a fourth service will open in the east of England in spring . NHS England remain on schedule to deliver a gender clinic in each region of England by 2026 . on puberty blocker , I be aware of the view of many on the subject and how sensitive it can be . in March last year , NHS England take the decision not to commission the routine use of puberty blocker for the treatment of gender incongruence , inform by an evidence review conduct by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence . the finding be echo in the Cass review and in accompany systematic review conduct by the University of York , which find insufficient evidence to support the safety or clinical effectiveness of puberty blocker for adolescent . there be a clear time for this order to be review in 2027 . well - quality evidence be critical if the NHS be to provide reliable transparent information and advice to support child and young people , and their parent and carer , in make potentially life - change decision . that be why we be support NHS England to set up a study into the impact of puberty - suppress hormone as a treatment option for child and young people with gender incongruence . the trial aim to begin recruit participant in spring 2025 . on education , as many be aware , before venture into politic I be , by profession , a comprehensive school teacher . back in the ' 80 , section 28 , introduce into law by the then Conservative Government , ban the " promotion of homosexuality " or " the teaching in any maintain school of the acceptability of homosexuality as a pretended family relationship . " in the classroom , if a pupil be verbally be hateful or discriminatory towards one of their peer , I do not want it to go unchallenged but find myself just tell they not to use such language or risk upset someone . anything more explicit could have be potentially promote homosexuality and break the law , and risk I lose my job . I do not protect those pupil who be the object of such comment in the way that they should have be protect . I should have do more . today , the notion that an LGBT + family be pretend be absurd to most . nowadays , it be not uncommon to find same - sex parent pick up their child from school . I appreciate the Minister ' s apology , but to have take such a stance would have mean she lose her job . although we can always reflect and do well in hindsight , we have to be kind to ourselves and give ourselves the space to be able to see the grace in ourselves as well . I thank my hon . friend for her very kind comment on the issue . even today , it do not mean that there be no challenge . come out , particularly to family or classmate , be still challenge and scary , with all the worry of how it might be perceive and the fear of bullying . in 2018 , the previous Government introduce LGBT + people into the relationship , sex and health education curriculum . the reality of diverse family type would , in stark contrast to section 28 , be teach as a fact of life in modern Britain . as the House be aware , the RSHE and gender - question pupil guidance be currently under review . the Government be engage with stakeholder , include parent , teacher and pupil . the Government be also draw from the available evidence , include the Cass review , to finalise the guidance . as the Secretary of State for Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , say in her first month in office , child ' s wellbeing must be at the heart of any decision on RSHE and gender - question guidance . another area I wish to touch on today be LGBT + veteran and personnel in the armed force . in 2021 , Falklands veteran Major General Alastair Bruce marry his husband in full military regalia . it be celebrate in regional and national medium , yet when he join the Army in 1979 it be illegal to be both LGBT + and a member of our armed force . as a result , the general be force to hide part of himself for decade just to be afford the right to serve his country . it be not until 2000 that that harmful policy be rectify , so that ability , not identity , determine if one be able to serve their country . in 2023 , Lord Etherton deliver the result and recommendation of his independent review into the period of the ban on LGBT + personnel . just this week , at an event to mark 25 year since its lifting , I hear some of the harrowing story of those affect by that ban . the Government be commit to deliver in full the recommendation of Lord Etherton ' s review . only last month , the win design for a new LGBT + memorial for armed force personnel be unveil , soon to be house at the National Arboretum . in December , the Ministry of Defence detail to the House a financial redress scheme that seek to acknowledge the consequence of the ban . the Government have increase the financial redress scheme from the original £ 50 million allocate by the previous Government to £ 75 million , an increase of 50 % . I strongly urge any eligible veteran from that time to contact the scheme as soon as they be able . more widely , 10 year ago the United Kingdom be rank as the no . 1 nation in Europe for LGBT + right , protection and safety . the UK be a global example not only of acceptance but opportunity . but 10 year of subsequent conservative Governments have undermine that achievement . from shelve their own LGBT action plan to the embarrassing boycott of their own international LGBT conference and the flip - flopping and delay on ban conversion practice , the conservative party slide backwards towards the politic of division . this Government aim to reverse that trend . the UK be proud to defend the human right of LGBT + people at home and around the world . we be proud member of the Equal Rights Coalition , which be an intergovernmental organisation dedicate to the protection of right for LGBT + people . the UK believe that human right be universal and apply equally to all people . that include those who be LGBT + , who be some of the most systematically persecute individual in the world . currently , 63 country criminalise consensual same - sex act , 13 can impose the death penalty , and at least 49 use legislation to criminalise or harass transgender and gender - diverse people . the criminalisation of LGBT + people often stem from colonial - era legislation , much of it impose by the UK itself . these law uphold outdated view that undermine the right of LGBT + people . they be wrong then , and they be wrong now . our network of more than 280 diplomatic mission work to tackle discrimination and end the violence and persecution that persist today . our £ 40 million programme be help to improve political , social and economic empowerment by address outdate , discriminatory law , promote protective legislation , enable civil society organisation , and support the most vulnerable LGBT + people in conflict and crisis . today I have share the Government ' s commitment in detail . this government stand ready to deliver for LGBT + people , end the dithering of recent year and lower the temperature of toxic debate . let I end by say , as part of the LGBT + community myself and as the Minister for Equalities , that it be a privilege to open this debate , and I look forward to the contribution of member on both side of the House . it be always a pleasure to stand at the Dispatch Box on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , but I particularly welcome the chance to take part in this debate during LGBT + History Month , which be first celebrate in 2005 and have be celebrate every February since then — I wish it a very happy 20th birthday . I welcome the Minister ' s opening speech , and , in particular , her update on the Cass review of how we support young people and their parent and carer . the theme of this year ' s LGBT + History Month be activism and social change , and it be very pleasing that some member be currently in Westminster Hall debate National HIV Testing Week . as we have hear , in the last few decade some truly remarkable man and woman have fight successfully for social change and , more substantially , a complete sea change in social attitude to LGBT + people — such a change , indeed , that in 2019 , under the Conservatives , Alan Turing be picture on the £ 50 note . what progress ! the fact that we be now rightly , properly and joyfully able to celebrate gay marriage be another huge step forward , and , as we hear from the Minister , as a country we have apologise and work to compensate our LGBT + veteran , who have be treat abominably in the service of our country . the fact we can celebrate those individual in history properly , rather than see what they see — the shameful treatment that they receive — and the fact that Alan Turing have be rightly celebrate show just how much we have move on . like , I be sure , many other member who be present today , I have meet constituent who have be affect by that ban , and we welcome both the memorial and the redress scheme . nowhere have we see more change in the past 40 year than in the battle on HIV and AIDS . when I be first appoint to my role as shadow Minister for Women and Equalities , one of my first meeting be with representative of the wonderful Terrence Higgins Trust . Terry Higgins be one of the first people in the UK to die of an AIDS - relate illness , and the trust that bear his name be set up with the intention of prevent other from have to suffer in the way in which he have . it focus on raise fund for research and awareness of the illness which at the time be call gay - relate immune deficiency , or grid — the name itself be a marker of prejudice at the time . the trust be the first charity in the UK to be set up in response to the HIV epidemic , and have be at the forefront of the fight against HIV and AIDS ever since . as we hear from the Minister , this charity be just one of the group that have drive real , positive change . we be proud and thankful to they all for the work that they have do , then and now . I be remind of my first experience of training with the Terrence Higgins Trust , learn about HIV and how it could be contract . what stick in my mind the most be people say that it could be catch from saliva . I remember those at the trust say that to catch it someone would need 2 litre of saliva , like a big bottle of fizzy drink ; that be one hell of a sloppy kiss . do the hon . member agree that education be key , and that the trust do an amazing job ? absolutely . I thank the hon . Lady , with whom I have the pleasure of co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on woman in Parliament . these stigma , these mindset , these myth have divide people and make life more difficult because of a lack of understanding and the promotion of fear , and I be very pleased that we have be able to tackle they through the work of that wonderful charity and many other . it be a pleasure to meet representative of the Terrence Higgins Trust recently . the Minister mention wide sexual health , and , as a mum of two young daughter , I know of the continue need to meet the wide sexual health challenge face our young people . we also need to meet the target of end new HIV case by 2030 . I be honour to be ask to speak at the Terrence Higgins Trust event during last year ' s Conservative party conference , alongside my right hon . friend the Members for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) and for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) . we all speak about the progress be make and the commitment to do what still need to be do to deliver the ambition of end HIV case by 2030 and tackle the stigma . we in the opposition will work stridently with the Government to achieve that aim , because this truly be a cross - party , cross - community issue . the last Conservative Government legalise self - test kit for HIV in 2014 , self - testing be roll out in England in 2015 , and the trial of pre - exposure prophylaxis in England begin in 2017 . this be National HIV Testing Week , and I be proud to say that , in 2012 , it be the Conservatives who fund the first one ever . I have three kit in my office to do exactly what we should all be do : I shall be hand they out and do a test myself to show how easy it be . any Member who , like I , represent a rural area will know that gain access to healthcare can involve challenge — for instance , get the message out about safe sex , access to contraception and regular testing , and the additional logistic involve in be a young person live in a rural area . those challenge need to be understand . many of my constituent in East Grinstead , Uckfield and the village have to travel many mile to Brighton or Crawley to get a test . for my young constituent , the problem may relate to a lack of transport or connectivity , isolation or loneliness , or simply not have anyone to talk to . I would encourage people to sign up for a test online and have a kit deliver to their door , as that may be easy and more appropriate . I say to my young constituent : " as your MP , I be a champion for you , and I hope that you be feel support by I . I be here to listen to you and stand up for your equality . " I be sure that all member will feel the same . over the last few year , both in the civil service when I serve as the Minister and in Parliament , I have enjoy and often learn a lot from work with my friend and colleague who be LGBT + , and I have be humble by their bravery . it be often still too hard for people to speak up about the person they be and to be their true , authentic self . I will champion the right of my staff and my friend , as I be sure all of we in this House will , to have the opportunity to be their true , authentic self , because the true conservative belief be those of freedom , equality , liberty and opportunity for all . in October , at Women and equality question , I ask the Minister for Women and Equalities whether the previous Government ' s £ 20 million commitment to roll out the successful HIV and hepatitis testing programme will remain . I be pleased when she respond by say that official be work up plan . if there be anything far that can be share with the House today , I would welcome that . I also welcome the update on the RHSE guidance , which be under review . it be important that parent and love one know what be be discuss at school , so that they can discuss and support that at home . give the discussion this afternoon , that be all the more important . public health commissioner be responsible for local sexual health service , include the 2 . 3 % cash increase last year . I hope the Minister will agree that we must ensure we see the delivery of progress and outcome for those who need that support in our community , not least because there be worry statistic from the UK Health Security Agency show an increase in HIV infection among heterosexual man and that , all too often , there be unsafe sex taking place , which we know put some people at risk . have the ability to ask people to test , so that they can have safe sex , be vital — as much as consent . in the good tradition of this House , one Government build on the legacy of the previous one . I be very proud of the work we do to ensure that anti - bully scheme be roll out for student in 2012 , to support LGBT + student . I welcome what the Minister say — bravery come in every shape and form , and I thank she for share her challenge with we . we be all learn together , and I be delighted to support this debate . in 2017 , the first ever LGBT + survey of the population be undertake under the Conservatives . there be many other step forward , and we must continue in the tradition of challenge and tackle stigma , to reach far important goal . as a responsible opposition , we must scrutinise and encourage , to make sure we be all move positively in the right direction . I look forward to hear contribution from other member today , as we continue to stand up for all our constituent , to challenge prejudice , to deliver true equality of opportunity , to celebrate love for all in the memory of and on behalf of those who have lead the way , and to continue to deliver for all our constituent whose happiness , success and right matter to we all . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . it be always an honour to take part in this annual debate commemorate , celebrate and protest for LGBT + History Month . I will start by say that I be incredibly disappointed that there be not more member of the House present to hear what I know will be a really informative , heartfelt , genuine debate . the theme for LGBT + History Month this year be activism and social change , but give what the LGBTQIA + community be face at the moment in the medium and in political rhetoric , perhaps a more appropriate theme would be survival and existence . we see powerful people — rich people — at home and abroad punch down , refer to the LGBT community as woke , snowflake , weak and fragile . any of we know that the LGBTQIA + community be far from all those thing , because fight for who you be and to love who you want to love in the face of hatred , humiliation and persecution be one of the brave thing any of we could ever do . the trans community have to live every day in a body that do not reflect who they truly be — that be courage , and all against a backdrop of conversation about they , without they , particularly for tran man . some of the strong , least snowflake people I could ever have in my life be from the LGBT community . I be so proud to call they my friend . they be basically my extended family ; they be the family I choose . they fight to be who they be , and they fight to exist now . I be go to give some personal example from when I be perhaps at my weak . as a straight woman , I rely on that community and my friend to hold I up , because they have the strength when I do not . when I be in my 20 , I use to go out out — as Miley Cyrus say , I use to be young . on one night , I be out out with one of my gay good friend and my non - binary friend . we have go to a gay club because , unsurprisingly , and for a reason that I can not possibly put my finger on , I feel safe and able to have more fun in gay nightclub than I do in straight club as a 20 - year - old single woman of that time . I can not think why that might be . we be on our way home , and we want chip and a kebab — standard , right ? in the queue be a group of lad . they start give I abuse , with sexual connotation , and I be myself , I do not shut up ; I do not take that lie down . I give as good as I be get . they go ahead , and all of a sudden , when we come out with our chip and kebab , I could feel thing hit my head . they be throw chip at we . those chip suddenly become punch to my face , and they push I to the ground . who stand up and fight for I ? my gay good friend and my non - binary friend take on five bloke for I — I do not stop fight either , but they be there when I need they . I have work across different community on various campaign , particularly human right campaign , and when I have lose those campaign , my dear friend Paul have be there to pick I up when I be cry and break and think I could not carry on . he show I the importance of that , because of his experience of fighting for equality throughout the ' 80 and the ' 90 and , unfortunately , in 2025 . my dear friend Helgi be one of the first out LGBT council member of the Royal College of Anaesthetists . I have speak quite often in this place about the multiple miscarriage I have experience . I could not have find myself at a dark time than I do then . he be there in the surgery to hold my hand and help I through one of the most difficult procedure , to remove two of the baby that do not make it out . he be my friend and be there when I wake up . that be the strength of the community . that be the strength of allyship . right now , they be the one be attack . they be the one feel isolated . they be the one feel without hope . so I make a plea to every ally and to everybody to use their voice to stand up for the many who have use their voice to stand up for our right , our dignity and our future . we have an election last year , and I be so proud that my first official engagement be Pride in Luton . every year it get big and well , and there be more supporter , more attendee and more fun . I take my family with I , and my then four - year - old ask I , " what ' s Pride , mummy ? " I say , " pride be a celebration , but it ' s also a protest . she say , " okay . " I say , " pride be a protest and a celebration of people love who they want to love and be who they be . " her reaction be , " okay , " and she shrug . we have the good time ever , and I hope that Pride long continue . but we do not get here without a fight . over a decade ago , the previous Labour Government introduce some fantastic measure : they remove the terrible section 28 from the statute book ; pass a law allow trans people to legally change their gender ; and introduce the Equality Act to protect LGBT + people from discrimination . Labour also lift the ban on lesbian , gay man and bi people serve in the armed force ; introduce civil partnership , which — I give credit to the previous Conservative Government — pave the way for same - sex marriage ; and bring in law to allow unmarried couple , include same - sex couple , to apply for joint adoption . I be pleased that we have that legacy and foundation to build on , but build on it we must . the plan propose in the labour manifesto be to deliver a trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice . I be pleased that the Minister confirm at the Women and Equalities Committee yesterday that the ban will be trans inclusive . she give her commitment on that . we need to ensure that LGBT + hate crime constitute an aggravate offence in the same way as other hate crime offence . we need to bring forward a new HIV action plan , and I be glad that many hon . member have speak about that already . we need to right the wrong endure by LGBT + veteran , which I know this Government be take aim at ; modernise the law on gender recognition ; fix the NHS ; and recruit 8 , 500 more mental health worker . all those be brave and laudable aim , but one thing that have be miss be a timeframe — a schedule for when all these fantastic plan will be put into place . when will the lgbtqi + community be able to feel the benefit of these laudable and beneficial aim ? we have see many member of that community feel scared . it be not just about look across the pond and see that their existence have be completely wipe out by President Trump and the rich man in the world ; there be also a feeling that there be a rowing back in the UK . I want we to address some of the issue , and I hope the Minister will be able to explain , perhaps in writing , where we be on some of these point . the indefinite ban on puberty blocker for young trans people have be mention . the Women and Equalities Committee hold an inquiry , and I be proud to say that although there be diverse opinion among Committee member — I be pleased to see some of they here — and the witness themselves , the debate be conduct with dignity and respect , with evidence and with a willingness to try to understand , which have all too long be missing . I can not yet say what recommendation will come out , because I will get into trouble , but we need to be part of a solution . it be not just about point out what the problem be . although the Minister say that the use of puberty blocker pose unclear risk of harm , we need to look at the unclear risk of harm from not be able to provide healthcare for trans people when they need it . what can be do to mitigate some of those harm ? we have talk about vitamin d , calcium , healthy diet and all the thing that would address some of the concern about puberty blocker . why be it that the ban be explicitly only for their use in treat people with gender dysphoria ? why be it safe for people with endometriosis , prostate cancer or precocious prepubescence to take puberty blocker , but not for those experience gender dysphoria ? the Women and Equalities Committee hear evidence from endocrinologist with brain the size of small planet , which be incredibly informative . there be much work to be do , but we need to ensure that it be do fairly , inclusively and with the community , not against it . there be also a plan to reform the Gender Recognition Act , to make it easy for tran people to change their legal gender . I know that the Minister for Women and Equalities , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) call the process " intrusive , outdated and humiliating " in 2022 . that be just as true today as it be then , and I would welcome an update from the Minister on when the GRA will be review . while we all debate this issue , LGBTQ + people be be isolate far . they be be target and talk about , which be come through clear in the statistic . the number of hate crime against LGBT + people increase from 4 , 345 in 2011 - 12 to 22 , 339 in 2023 - 24 . that increase be huge , and it affect real people ' s life . there be also a huge amount of under - reporting , because we know that only one in eight victim report homophobic or transphobic hate crime to the police . we need to build up society ' s trust in the Government to protect the most vulnerable from such crime . we have a lot of work to do . ban conversion therapy have receive cross - party support , and I look forward to find out when we will see a timeline for the ban to come into force . as we hear in the Women and Equalities Committee yesterday , we need to commit to make it tran inclusive , and I would be grateful if that commitment could be reiterate from the Dispatch Box today . when will minister commit to a timeline for bring forward the plan to make anti - LGBT hate crime an aggravated offence ? we have speak about the new HIV action plan and building on the work of the previous Government , and I be really pleased that we have that . it be wonderful to see the Prime Minister casually take an HIV test , which be not something that we would have see in the past . the Minister and the shadow Minister speak eloquently about the stigma around HIV , as do my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . tackle that stigma be so important , but it be really difficult to break it down when those in power continue to punch down . we have see that with President Trump ' s devastating cut to USAID , which have leave million across the world without access to lifesave antiretroviral . what will the UK do to fill the gap ? as we have see in the US , progress be never inevitable . I hope this Government can address the concern of the LGBTQI community , and of those who want to live in a society free from persecution and barrier to healthcare service and safety . we must stay united in the fight , because an attack on one of we be an attack on all , and hatred never stay in one lane for long . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a pleasure and an honour to follow the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . I concur with everything she say about the work be do by the Women and Equalities Committee . it be important to recognise where we stand in history , because when we talk about LGBTQ right , woman ' s right or racial equality in this place , we often talk about the journey that we have be on and what we have achieve . yes , we have achieve a lot , but we face enormous challenge at this moment in our history . our country ' s LGBTQ community need to look at we today and know that we will stand up for they and that we will fight for their right , include their right simply to be who they be . but we have face challenge before , and we have overcome they . I think of Scotland , particularly my home city of Glasgow , where I be bring up . in the 1970 , and when I be a student in the 1980 , it have unfortunately garner for itself the unenviable reputation of be one of the bad place in Europe to grow up gay . attitude be somehow more polarised in Scotland than anywhere else in the UK . in 1957 , a poll show that more than 80 % of scot do not want homosexuality to be decriminalise ; the figure be 51 % in England . in prepare for this debate , I find an article in a 1982 student newspaper from the University of Liverpool , whose student union disaffiliate with the University of Glasgow because it refuse to allow a gay society to form . accord to the union president , that refusal be on the ground that the age of consent for homosexual sex be 21 and , give that most student be young than 21 , the union do not want to " give the impression that the Union in some way bestow an unofficial blessing on their activity … many member of the Gay Society be not interested in a constructive approach to change the membership ' s attitude … but use this as a ploy to gain momentum to destroy the character of the Union as we know it . " we hear an echo of that language today , but imagine how young LGBT people must have feel hear and read it . that be the kind of attitude they face on a daily basis . and imagine if we have be able to tell they that , 40 year later , Glasgow would be in the top five place in Europe for LGBT people to visit and enjoy and that , despite those attitude , a long , rich history have develop of the community across Scotland come together to support each other . we have improve so much , as those figure show . Edinburgh Befrienders , later know as the Lothian Gay and Lesbian Switchboard , open in 1974 and be the UK ' s first bespoke helpline for gay and lesbian people — beat Switchboard , which still exist , by just one day . Edinburgh be also home to Scotland ' s first LGBT bookshop , Lavender Menace , and in 1995 welcome 3 , 000 people to Scotland ' s first Pride march . it be now huge , the event of the year , and I have be privileged to speak at it twice . of course , much of this change have be possible only because of public figure , include : former mps such as Robin Cook , who equalise Scots law and english law on homosexuality ; Val McDermid , whose 1987 novel " report for murder " feature Lindsay Gordon , Britain ' s first fictional lesbian detective ; and award - win author Jackie Kay , the second woman and first lesbian to hold the post of Makar , Scotland ' s national poet , and whose work have deal with race , gender , transgender identity and her own sexuality . thank to such people and place , so many attitude , law and the understanding of LGBT + people have change for the well . the age of consent be finally equalise for gay and straight people in England , Scotland and Wales in 2000 . same - sex couple be recognise for the first time in 2004 with civil partnership . in the same year , trans people gain formal recognition in law for the first time with the Gender Recognition Act . and 20 year ago , same - sex couple gain the right to adopt . my party , its politician and activist play a key role in that fight . as for I , the fight for LGBT + right be not just another political issue but , like the fight for all human right , be part of who I be , what I believe and what my party stand for . as have already be mention , it be thank to the allyship and hard work of my noble Friend Baroness Featherstone that , in 2013 , hundred of thousand of campaigner and activist across the country finally have their voice hear with the achievement of marriage equality for same - sex couple . however , I sometimes think that focus on the success of the LGBT right movement in the UK lead we to think that everything have be easy , that progress come without any great effort , and that it be quick and natural . we forget the negative . we forget the fight we have to go through , and our country ' s moment of shame . shame be the only word for the treatment of gay man like Alan Turing , who be imprison , chemically castrate and shame for his sexuality . shame be the only word for the fact that , before 2000 , anyone could be dismiss from the armed force simply for be gay . shame be the only word for the public distrust — indeed , hatred — that many gay man face during the AIDS crisis . I grow up during that crisis , and the fear and stigma be sometimes palpable and , despite the public solidarity and support from many lesbian group , it continue . and , of course , shame be the only word to describe the last impact of section 28 on a whole generation of young LGBT people who be not allow to see themselves represent in school or have appropriate protection from homophobic bullying . we may think that these negative be all in the past , but in recent year we have see horrible debate on LGBT right , particularly tran right , and they have become increasingly toxic . many trans people see their identity denigrate , their experience ignore and their life sideline in debate about their own right and their own life . too many people forget that at the centre of these culture war be real people who simply want to live their life and be leave alone to be who they be . it be time that we move the debate forward . it be time that we think about the people and not the politic , by focus on the solution to the issue that the LGBTQ community still face . we must tackle the growth in hate crime , the misogyny and objectification face by lesbian , and the intersectional issue face by black and minority ethnic or disabled lgbtq people . I be delighted that we will hear about the Government ' s draft conversion practice ban Bill soon . how can we support school and business in eradicate homophobic and transphobic bullying and harassment ? we have to think about how we can support trans people in access well support , and how we can help non - binary people to gain recognition in law . I hope that the Government will address all these point , and today I be more confident that they will . the hon . member for Luton North mention her daughter as hope for the future . my daughter be considerably old — in her 20 . a couple of year ago , we go to Edinburgh to see a play , " everybody ' s talk about Jamie " , about a young cross - dress guy who want to wear a dress to the prom , which cause all sort of hassle . we go because I have see the film and love it . about halfway through the play , I begin to find the audience more interesting . I realise that everybody under the age of about 35 or 40 be totally engage in what be happen , cheer for Jamie and boo his opponent . it be great . everybody over the age of about 60 look stunned . they be look round , think , " what ' s go on ? " . my daughter Mhairi and I come out and , as we walk along the road , I say , " your generation really don ' t care , do they ? " . she say , " no , we don ' t get it . we don ' t know why it ' s a problem , and we don ' t know why politician don ' t see that . " I think to myself , " this toxic argument , which we all want to end , will end , because the young generation will not allow their peer to be punish for be who they be in the way that mine be . " I thank the Government for have this debate , and I thank everyone who be here . please let we send the positive message that we will stand up and make sure that acceptance come soon . it be an honour to speak in the main Chamber in this Parliament , which , as Mr Speaker tell we the other night at his reception , be the gay Parliament in the world . LGBT History Month have never be more need , as politician of all political stripe , here in the UK , in Europe and , of course , in America , try to tear down the few protection that LBGTQ + people have , attack our right and rewrite history . our history and our activism need to be shout about . we will not be silence . we will not be erase . we will not be push back into the closet , and our history will be celebrate and remember . we need people to continue to be brave enough to shout , " I be here . " I be a lesbian , and I be say that in the mother of all Parliaments — and I will not stop shout about it . our diversity be what make we wonderful ; it give we strength . " Dyke " be no long an insult , but a badge that I wear with pride , just like my " she / her " pronoun badge . it have be 40 year since I come out . at the time , I would never have imagine that I would be an out lesbian Member of Parliament 40 year on . in those year , we have see huge improvement , but we also still have a really long way to go . I would not have imagine that I would still be have the same slur chuck at I now as I do then , in argument that try to make out that LGBTQ + people be a threat to kid . that be why LGBT History Month be so important , why our activism be so important , and why I always say that I be an activist first and a politician second . we must celebrate our history and remind people that we have always be here , and that trans people have always exist . we also have to remember the lesson of our activism . we have to remember and listen to those who live those fight , and we have to learn from they in order to defend ourselves and our community from the late wave of attack . over the last few year , I have repeatedly hear , " why do we need LGBT History Month ? " , " surely Pride be not need any more , " and " Hasn ' t equality go too far ? " , but people be start to understand why we still need those event . the fight to protect our right never end . even this week , there be far too many people still make those type of comment , and too many people be woefully uneducated about LGBT history . on 28 June 1970 , on the one - year anniversary of the Stonewall uprising , the first Pride marche be hold in New York , Los Angeles and Chicago . Pride will always be a protest . pride event be where our community , in all our diversity , make ourselves visible and stand up for our right , our identity and our very existence . it be where we use our voice , and where ally show up in solidarity . pride event be need for LGBTQ + visibility and solidarity , to celebrate the milestone achieve in the fight for equality and to remind we of the struggle that remain . last year , the town I live in , Hebburn , hold its first ever local Pride , thank to Peter Darrant from Out North East , who also run the wonderful Pride Radio , which broadcast nationally from my constituency of Jarrow and Gateshead East , and local business leader such as Wendy Stead and many other . they face a barrage of abuse . they have the flag rip down , and the local paper remove the article about the event because of the thousand of abusive comment , and both Peter and I receive horrific homophobic and lesbophobic abuse , online and in real life . I be proud to say that Peter , Wendy and the team be ensure that the local Pride go ahead again this year , and I will be there , but we need to see more solidarity from people in the face of such hatred , and we need to ensure that there be Pride event in every town and city . we must tackle the rise in LGBTQ + hate crime and , in particular , the huge explosion in transphobic hate crime over the last few year . those attack reflect an increasingly hostile environment , exacerbate by negative medium and political rhetoric , not just in the US , but in Europe and here in the UK . just last week , a GB News host link LGBTQ + people to paedophilia . the Leader of the Opposition have refer to trans people as an epidemic , and as I have remind she , the definition of that be a " widespread occurrence of an infectious disease " . it be no wonder , with language like that , that under the last Conservative Government , the number of hate crime commit on the basis of sexual orientation increase from around 4 , 000 in 2011 - 12 to nearly 23 , 000 in 2023 - 24 . that be a disgrace , and I be pleased that our Government have promise to tackle LGBTQ + hate crime by ensure that it constitute an aggravated offence . I must echo the word of the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) : it be so disappointing to see not one Conservative MP on the Back Benches . previous Labour Governments ensure that equality be at their heart , and I be so pleased that our first ever out lesbian Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , continue that work as a Minister in this Government . I also pay tribute to the Minister for Equalities , who be lead today ' s debate , for make sure that we have this debate in Government time , and for everything that she be do to deliver a fully inclusive ban on so - call conversion practice . I be proud that our Government have be clear that such conversion practice be abuse . they be act that aim to change people ' s — mostly LGBT + people ' s — sexual orientation or gender identity , and we will ban they . I be proud that it be Labour that lift the ban on lesbian , gay man and bi people serve in the armed force , and introduce civil partnership and law to allow unmarried couple , include same - sex couple , to apply for joint adoption . I be proud that we be bring forward a new HIV action plan . I be pleased to speak at an event jointly sponsor by the British Group Inter - Parliamentary Union and the Elton John AIDS Foundation in Parliament early this week . I be also proud that , despite medium report to the contrary , we will bring forward action on our manifesto commitment to modernise , simplify and reform the intrusive and outdated Gender Recognition Act 2004 and remove indignity for trans people , as well as ensure that all discrimination and financial barrier be remove when it come to same - sex in - vitro fertilisation . however , I once again add a note of caution about our Government ' s policy and rhetoric on puberty blocker . I believe that their decision be put people ' s health at risk . I be a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe , which have release a report that note that the total withdrawal of access to puberty blocker outside a research trial in the UK may breach " the fundamental ethical principle govern research " . I urge Ministers to consider the report in detail . I thank Sue Sanders , the founder of LGBT History Month . we must remember our history , but also acknowledge those who continue to fight , such as Lord Cashman and Baroness Barker , Linda Riley from DIVA , Simon Blake from Stonewall , Shiv , who be organise the London Dyke March , Marty Davies , who do so much to ensure that trans history be recognise , and those who make thing happen behind the scene , such as Marshajane Thompson , who have do so much work in this space for decade . you be push for our history to be remember , and for our right to be defend , and it be you who will be remember in future history book . Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to thank you for be such a great ally , for co - host the first all - trans panel with I in the previous Parliament , which give tran people a voice , and for also co - host event with I during lesbian visibility week . our collective effort can , do , and will continue to make a difference . by stand together , advocate for change and support organisation that champion LGBTQ + right , we can create a more inclusive and just world for all . it be a privilege to speak in this debate — although in write my speech ahead of today , I could not help but feel old . we be here to debate LGBT + history Month , and , as a woman of a certain age , I have have the stark and daunting realisation that I be so old that I be part of history . we be all aware of the story of now famous LGBT + people who be remarkable in their own field , but who live too early to enjoy the progress that we have now achieve . Alan Turing , who be mention early , spring to mind . in many sense his story be now legend . the understanding of the role that he play in protect this country be universal . that he happen to be gay should not have matter . despite his service , he be chemically castrate and suffer for the rest of his life . it be absolutely correct that the last Labour Government apologise , and that ture be pardon in August 2014 . LGBT + History Month be often mark and reflect through story , and today I want to share just some of my story . I grow up in a mining town in the ' 80 . the difference in the right that I have now compare with then be strike . as a lesbian woman , I have spend my adult life fight for LGBT + right . it be when fight for those right that I first visit this place . after many year of debate and setback , in June 1998 , this House vote to equalise the age of consent between heterosexual and gay man . as an active member of the Unison City of Edinburgh lesbian and gay self - organise group , we have be campaign for many year to end this discrimination . the Unison archive remind I that our branch write letter to all scottish mps and mp who have a link with our union — it be 320 in total . on the day of the vote , two of we come to this place to lobby mps in person to vote for this historic change . the next big fight for our right in which I be actively involve be the repeal of section 28 , or section 2A in Scotland . as someone who work in local government and who have a same sex partner with child , I see the damage that section 2A do every single day . the Act mean that teacher and youth worker could not provide support to child of same sex partner , or LGBT + young people . it result in many public sector worker , particularly those in educational setting , feel that they could not come out in their own workplace . essentially , the law say that household , such as the one in which I be live , be just wrong . when the Scottish Executive announce that they would repeal section 2A , there be a considerable and , at time , vile campaign against its removal , much of it finance by Brian Souter . Souter want to bankroll a private referendum and campaign for people to vote no . there be billboard across Scotland oppose the repeal . one billboard be on Ferry Road , one of the main bus route through my home in the Edinburgh North and Leith constituency . I will never forget have to take David and Zoe to school on a bus and pass a sign that say that our family be not a real family . I can not put into word the anger that I feel because of the worry that it create for I , the kid and their mum . thankfully the people of Scotland reject the buying of democracy by Brian Souter and the referendum never happen . a few year ago the Scottish Trades Union Congress commission a book celebrate 125 year of trade union success in Scotland , and , as a contributor , I write about this struggle . in the book I say : " an overarching worry for the general public be that Souter be try to bankroll this referendum and campaign . People do not want private , rich people to be able to buy democracy . " I know that my constituent still hold this view . the following decade and a half bring significant improvement to the right of LGBT + people in Scotland and across the UK . I look forward to reflect on one of those right in a few week ' time when I celebrate my first wedding anniversary with my wife . in closing , the struggle for LGBT right have be fight in workplace , in our community , in our family and across this House for decade . we have have many success but , sadly , some people still live in fear of their life because they love someone of the same sex . in this place , we must continue to fight to ensure that everyone be able to love who they wish regardless of where they be bear . my hope be that , very soon , people across the world will have the freedom that I enjoy here in the UK today . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) must have be think the same way as I when she write her speech , because , for I , LGBT History Month be always a time to reflect on the past and , at 47 , I have a fair bit of past on which I can reflect . grow up in the ' 80 and ' 90 , I be all too aware of the challenge of HIV and AIDS . many will remember that terrify tv advert , the public health campaign , that be regularly play out on television . the reality be that it be a terrifying time , as there be no cure and no real treatment . AIDS be a death sentence . this in itself lead to a stigmatise perception of the gay community in particular , because , as we all know , they be disproportionately affect by the disease . Dr Nick Phillips , my lecturer at perform art school , be the first person I meet who have AIDS , and this be in 1996 . Nick have be well know in the ' 70 and ' 80 for his performance with the famous Bloolips cabaret troupe , and he have perform extensively both here in the UK and in the US . it be his stint in the US that tragically see he become one of the first people to catch HIV , as , unfortunately , do many of his friend . about eight year ago , I see Nick do a touching solo performance , in which he portray the heartbreak of this period for he , lose so many friend while deal with his own potential mortality . despite there be no treatment , Nick miraculously survive when many do not , and he be still around today to tell the tale . when I first meet Nick and become a close friend of his , I have to overcome my own prejudice — touch he , hug he , or give he a peck on the cheek . I be one of many in the 1990 who be still absolutely petrified of this uncurable illness . but Nick help I see that it do not have to be a death sentence . it also mean that I could not catch it by just give he a hug . I remember Nick get really ill in 1997 and end up in hospital . he be one of the first to receive the experimental treatment of combination therapy , and it work . Nick go on to compose the touching " Red Ribbon Requiem " , which be perform by the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra . today , he have demonstrate just how far treatment have come , live a normal , healthy life and have naturally father two lovely twin boy . fast forward to 2020 and a really close friend of mine sit I down to tell I that he have HIV . my immediate reaction be despair . I think that I be go to lose he , that he have that death sentence . but he laugh at I and say , " Don ' t worry , my level be already now undetectable . " this be because of the wonderful medication that he be take . as long as he keep take it , he will go on to live a normal life . today , more than 30 HIV medication be available . many people be able to control their HIV with just a single pill a day . early treatment can prevent HIV - positive people from get AIDS , and the disease that it cause , such as cancer . HIV drug also stop people who have the virus pass it on during sex . we still do not have a cure for AIDS , but with the right treatment , people who be HIV - positive can have a normal lifespan , but we must remember that HIV and AIDS do not just affect the LGBTQ + community . it do not discriminate , like those who have be victim of the virus have be discriminate against in the past . while most people have catch the disease from unprotected sex , regardless of their sexuality , other have contract it from infected blood , from their parent during pregnancy , from share needle or from be horribly rape . I fully support the Labour Government ' s new HIV action plan to end all new HIV case in England by 2030 . I be pleased that there be a cross - party consensus on that . the powerful image just this week of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom publicly take an HIV test on camera be wonderful . I take my test too , and I encourage everybody to do the same . as we look to the future , with this Labour Government introduce great protection for the LGBTQ + community , such as the trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice and right the wrong do to LGBT veteran , we would think that we would have reason to celebrate , but as other have say , we must be aware that , among some , the narrative be shift . we have see our trans community under attack , be make to feel non - existent . around the world , we have see those in power in country that we normally consider progressive rowing back on LGBTQ + right . we sadly even hear such rhetoric come out of this place . this week , the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) — I have give he notice — state that he would sack every DEI officer in the NHS . just this weekend , he tell they on social medium how much he detest their work . let we look at this . D stand for diversity : diverse people , and people from a diverse background . e stand for equality : help those diverse people to gain equality and feel equal . I stand for inclusion : make they feel they be include in society . how dare somebody say that they want to ban that . we need to call these people out — those who be look to push we back and take away our right , make diversity irrelevant as oppose to embrace it . we be a diverse country and should embrace everybody , whoever they be . we have make huge stride forward , so please , let we not go back . I pay tribute to all the pride organisation across the country , many of which be run by volunteer , for their wonderful work in raise awareness , and create visibility and safe space for the LGBTQ + community . I particularly call attention to Basildon Pride , where I be still the chair of trustee , and the wonderful Southend Pride , which offer so much to the community . long may it continue to do so . I pay tribute to the Minister , who bravely speak about the reality of teaching under section 28 and how she do she good to protect LGBT child in her class . I be so glad that she be now able to do so in Government . I also pay tribute to the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , who have always be a staunch and fearless ally , and speak about these issue with warmth , compassion , humanity and empathy . today , we have see some of the good of all party represent in the Chamber . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , have always be a voice on these issue within the conservative party . the liberal Democrat spoke - person , the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , have long be ahead of many in this House when it come to equality issue , include be outspoken in support of the right of sex worker , who must never be exclude from conversation on feminism and lgbtq equality . I be thrilled that we have the opportunity to discuss LGBT History Month in the Chamber for many reason , not least because it give I the opportunity to put on record just how gay Nottingham be and have long be . I be overjoyed to learn that Mansfield Road , where my constituency office be base , be home to queer - friendly caf é s in the 1960 , and that just down the road in St Ann ' s there be a flourish lesbian pub scene . Nottingham also have a trans meet - up group all the way back in the 1970 — again , disprove the lie that trans people have only exist more recently — and people in our city be active in the section 28 protest , in fight the AIDS crisis , and in run life - save phone support line . I be privileged to meet some of they at Silver Pride , a social group for old gay and bi man in Nottingham . it be thank to CJ DeBarra that much of that history and more be be uncover . they have interview more than 150 member of our community , and delve deep into archive around the country to ensure that the history of Nottingham ' s LGBTQ + community be preserve , highlight and celebrate . I also pay tribute to many of the group that support and advocate for LGBTQ + people in Nottingham today : Notts LGBT + network , Notts Pride , the Pastel Project , Nottingham against Transphobia , Silver Pride , the Nottingham Centre for Transgender Health , Notts Trans Hub and more . those involve be unsung hero — often volunteer who work tirelessly to improve the life of people in our community . they deserve huge thank and recognition . as well as mark LGBT History Month , this debate coincide with HIV Testing Week . I commend the Prime Minister for be the first to take a public HIV test . at the height of the AIDS crisis , that would have be unthinkable . it demonstrate just how far we have come in this regard . it be thank to activist who have fight so hard for proper treatment and funding for research , and against ignorance and stigma , that we be where we be today . HIV be no long a death sentence — far from it — and end the epidemic be possible . UNAIDS have set a goal of 2030 , and it be vital that our Government play their part in help to achieve that . I welcome our commitment in this area . although it be right that progress be celebrate , it can not come at the expense of recognise where we be continue to fall short and even go backwards in some area . many of the struggle of the past be also struggle of the present . the LGBTQ + community continue to face huge inequality , with trans people at the sharp end , include high level of homelessness , discrimination at work and school , an increase likelihood of experience verbal and physical abuse , and , yes , disproportionate rate of suicide . this be not hyperbole , and recognise that sad reality be not in some way irresponsible . life for may LGBTQ + people be still immensely difficult . we be live in an era of rise hate , both here and around the world , which be put more people at risk . the state of politic on LGBTQ + issue be appalling . Trans people have be make a political football , with their suffering almost consider a price worth pay to score political point . that make some people feel tempt , I think , just to ignore the reality that trans people face , or to try to find some kind of so - call middle ground , but when the conversation have be drag so far to the extreme right by anti - trans activist , the middle ground be far from moderate . history show we that the answer be not to cede ground to the right ' s frame ; it be to fight back . generation of queer activist hold fast in demand their right , and they win they eventually . I want to make clear , as a feminist and as a woman who be not tran , that I be proud to stand with my trans sibling . those who claim that stand up for my right as a woman require roll back the right of trans people do not speak for I . when people with very loud voice and newspaper column tell we that there be a conflict between trans right and woman ' s right , and that they be stand up for woman , they be just not be honest . from the abuse towards woman of colour compete in sport to cisgender lesbian be harass in bathroom , attack on trans people endanger all woman who do not fit within anti - trans activist ' ever - narrow heteronormative and eurocentric parameter of womanhood . far from advocate for woman ' s right , they be put they under threat . whether or not they realise it , they be help to usher in the far right , who want to restrict woman ' s freedom and reinforce traditional gender role . we see time and again , for example , campaign against tran right and abortion right work hand in hand , because they be part and parcel of a politic be drag ever rightward . entire conservative leadership contest have be fight on the basis of who can talk the tough when it come to an extremely marginalise group . the conservative party have go from support gender recognition reform under the May Government and promise to outlaw conversion therapy , to outright oppose the first and come up with excuse to allow the second to continue . I be extremely sad to say that my party , too , have be drag in the wrong direction . our policy on trans issue be bad now than it be in previous year . that be the wrong approach . our party must completely reject the tired narrative that trans people be a threat , which underpin so much of this moral panic . it be not true about gay man in the ' 80 and it be not true about the trans community now . our approach must centre on trans people themselves and their humanity . we must stand against bigotry and for human right , and deliver material change , such as a trans - inclusive conversion therapy ban ; the reform that we have promise in the gender recognition process ; proper access to gender - affirm healthcare to trans people of all age , include by ensure that everybody who need puberty blocker have access to they ; the creation of inclusive school ; and the expansion of affordable housing . LGBT history be not just in the past ; it be be make every day . labour be now in government , and we must decide what role we want to play . thank to year of campaigning by LGBTQ + people , previous Labour Governments take important stride in equalise the age of consent , repeal section 28 , and legislate for civil partnership , adoption right and gender recognition . the future of the next generation of LGBTQ + people will be shape , in part at least , by our party . that generation will judge we on our record . we still have time to make it one to be proud of . I want to speak directly to they — to LGBTQ + youth . I know that for so many of you , life be really hard and your future feel uncertain . there be no doubt that this chapter of history , and the direction in which the world be move , often feel dark , but you be not alone . there be so many people who love and not just accept you but celebrate you for who you be , both within our LGBTQ + community and outside it . our history be one of struggle , but not every chapter have be bleak . we have face down bigotry and win right . throughout it all , queer joy have always co - exist . a well world be possible , and I hope that one day the need for struggle and the feeling of darkness will have go and that our joy be all that remain . until then , we will keep fight . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in this important debate mark LGBT + history Month . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) . one of my predecessor as MP for Scarborough and Whitby , Paul Latham , who be the MP from 1931 to 1941 , be imprison for two year after be arrest for " improper behaviour " while serve in the Royal Artillery during the second world war . his story be a case study of how so often LGBT + people have be hide from history as they face prejudice , persecution and , in the case of man who be gay , prosecution . Paul Latham ' s arrest drive he to try to end his life , which result only in a charge of attempt suicide be add to that of indecent conduct — a very sad story , but hardly exceptional . the post - war period see a sharp rise in the number of prosecution in Britain for homosexual act , with the fine for a first offence be the equivalent of £ 700 today and second offence punishable by a sentence of one to five year on average . thankfully , in 1967 , the then Labour Home Secretary Roy Jenkins provide parliamentary time for Leo Abse ' s ten - minute rule Bill to decriminalise homosexuality through the Sexual Offences Act 1967 . of course , there be still a long way to go to full equality . even as fairly recently as 1980 , Scarborough town council refuse permission for the Campaign for Homosexual Equality to hold a conference in the town — something that damage not only Scarborough ' s reputation at the time , but its tourist trade . the success of today ' s Scarborough Pride be therefore all the more welcome and be cause for celebration . of course , there be other Pride event in nearby York and Leeds , but it be important for the community in Scarborough to be visible , which it be at Pride , with over 3 , 000 people take part since it restart in 2023 . I have take part in both joyous parade , join the Scarborough and Whitby Labour party carry its splendid LGBTQ + banner , along with my dog Tarka , resplendent in her rainbow neckerchief . the parade wind its way cheerfully through the town centre and along Foreshore Road towards Scarborough Spa where the festivity continue with fabulous performance , stall and delicious food — of course , Tarka particularly appreciate the latter . local business along the route decorate their shop and window , put pride flag out to show their support , with the whole town get into the spirit of the event . it be a fun day , but it also help combat the feeling of isolation that LGBT + resident feel , and it have an educational value , break down barrier through family - friendly entertainment , so that future generation of the community will not have to experience the prejudice that old member have . McCain Foods , a major local employer , have go above and beyond to support the event , but — as be the case for so many other charity — funding have be a struggle for the organiser , who all give their time for free . I pay tribute to those wonderful volunteer . I know that Scarborough Pride would welcome offer of support for this year ' s Pride , which take place on 13 September , celebrate inclusivity , diversity and love on the Yorkshire coast . of course , far up the coast in Whitby , we enjoy a massive outpouring of love and acceptance twice a year as horde of splendidly costume goth visit the town in April and October . however , as we have hear in the House today and as we know from our own experience , the LGBT + community continue to suffer from abuse and discrimination . a brilliant exhibition of photo from last year ' s Scarborough Pride be run at Scarborough Art Gallery as part of LGBT + History Month , but sadly , the comment section of a Yorkshire Post article about that exhibition have have to be switch off because of the vile nature of many of the post . we have see so much progress , include legislation to introduce civil partnership and allow same - sex couple to adopt child , the equalisation of the age of consent and the repeal of section 28 , all under the last Labour Government . that be follow by the right of same - sex couple to marry under the coalition Government , and I be so pleased to see this Government take action to right a historic wrong and compensate LGBT + veteran who be dismiss from the armed service because of their sexual orientation or gender identity . the Defence Secretary have call this " a moral stain on our nation . " — [ Official Report , 12 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 1103 . ] an honest look at history mean confront the prejudice and often brutal treatment that LGBT + people have suffer in the past and continue to experience . it mean face the fact that progress have not be smoothly linear , but a case of stop and start , in which each step forward have have to be fight for bravely so that people can be who they really be without fear . as the Member of Parliament for Scarborough and Whitby and a proud ally of the LGBT + community , I be committed to play my part in the push towards progress — towards a future in which our child can live their life free from judgment and discrimination , and can be their good , bright and authentic self . it be a huge privilege to speak in this afternoon ' s debate . there have be so many wonderful contribution , and I thank all colleague for they . the question that I think I have be ask the most since I become an MP be , " why do you want to get into politic ? why do you decide to become an MP ? " I be often ask that by group of a - level student or by kid in school , and the honest answer be , " because I know that politic change live , because it have change my life . " I grow up under section 28 , feel like who I be , be something to be ashamed of . when I be 16 , people in this place scrap section 28 so that my school could no long deny my existence . when I be 17 , they pass a law to allow civil partnership and give I belief that I could have a relationship that be view as equal . when I be at university , they pass the Equality Act 2010 , which outlaw discrimination against I , and then when I be 26 , I embrace my now wife in Parliament Square as equal marriage become law . it be because of all those thing that today , my wife and I have two wonderful child and the love and respect of our family , and I be able to stand here today as a proud lesbian MP . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate for LGBT + history Month . the debate be an important chance for we to reflect on our history and the brave pioneer who have come before we , and it have be wonderful to hear many of their story today . however , I want to use my speech to celebrate not those who have achieve prominence , but everyday people who have persist — who , in live their life and have the courage to be themselves , be the reason we have make the progress we have . the real challenge for every LGBT + person be not a battle with their career or their personal ambition ; the real battle each and every one of we face be a battle with shame . when you be tell that you be disgusting or when you be tell that there be something wrong with you , it eat at you — it eat at your very sense of self . every time in our history that an LGBT person have steel their nerve and hold hand in the street , every time they choose to tell a colleague or friend the pronoun of their partner or choose to express their gender , and every time they choose love over fear , they show an almighty act of strength . it be the most powerful political act there can be — an individual act of defiance , of courage — and today we stand here because of each and every one of they . we have achieve so much as a community , but I want to conclude by reflect on the work still to do , and the importance that this Government place on advance LGBT + right , because our journey be not complete when there be still so much hate towards gay and tran people , while conversion practice still take place and while our gender recognition law remain out of date . that be why I be so proud that this Government will deliver a trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice , make LGBT + hate crime an aggravate offence and modernise the law on gender recognition . the good way to honour the LGBT + people who have , throughout history , fight for our right , often at great personal cost , be to never be complacent , to link arm as a community and to make it our solemn mission to ensure that Pride be not just our protest against the pernicious effect of shame , but something feel freely by every LGBT person finally allow to just be who they be . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak , as a lesbian MP and as co - chair of the now very large parliamentary Labour party LGBT + group , on what be the 20th anniversary of LGBT + History Month . LGBT + History Month be first celebrate in 2005 , but I first come to this country well before that — in the early 1990 — and for lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people , it be a very different place from what it be now . we be a community ravage by the HIV epidemic that kill so many people and so many young people , but in a cruel twist , LGBT + people be blame for the very epidemic that be kill we . this lead to section 28 — that pernicious conservative law that put teacher in fear of be sack if they even acknowledge our existence , and leave many LGBT + kid alone and often bully mercilessly at school . on the street , LGBT + people be in fear of their life . in 1990 , in my own constituency of Ealing Southall , Michael Boothe be kick to death by six man in Elthorne park in Hanwell simply because he be gay . both the stigma of HIV and the chilling effect of section 28 keep so many people in the closet , live life they could not be honest about for fear of the consequence . they be unable to be open to their own family , and always fearful of be out , of be beat up and of lose their ability to earn a living . in the 1990 , people could be sack from their job just because of who they love . as unreal as it now seem , you could even be refuse service by a shop , a hotel or a restaurant because you be gay . there be no law against it . how life have change since then ! the last Labour Government transform LGBT + people ' s life . we repeal section 28 , we lift the ban on LGB people in the military and we equalise the age of consent . we outlaw discrimination against LGBT + people in society and in the workplace . we give LGBT + people the right to adopt and to access NHS fertility treatment . we bring in tough sentence for anti - LGBT + hate crime , with the first ever conviction for homophobic murder in the case of jody Dobrowski on Clapham common . we introduce civil partnership , give same - sex partner the same right as married couple . we change the law to finally acknowledge trans people ' s right to live their life , and one of Labour ' s final act in government be the groundbreake Equality Act 2010 . labour build a more equal society but since then progress on LGBT + equality have be painfully slow or have go backwards in many respect . Anti - LGBT + hate crime soar to record level under the last Conservative Government , which come as no surprise give that they demolish neighbourhood police in this country . they slash funding to local council so that life - save service for young LGBT + people — like youth club and library , and specialist housing and sexual health worker — be cut , and they fan the flame of a toxic debate about trans people ' s right to exist . it have take a new Labour Government to pick up where we leave off and restart the work that be still need to ensure equality for LGBT + people . we be right the wrong of the past by pay compensation to those sack from the armed force for be LGBT + . we be roll out opt - out HIV testing , with the Prime Minister himself take a test on camera this week . and we have open the first of six new trans healthcare hub . it be still too easy for employer to sack an LGBT + worker but pretend it be nothing to do with discrimination . so labour ' s Employment Rights Bill introduce a new day one protection against any unfair dismissal , which should make it hard for employer to get away with discriminating . our plan to end zero - hour contract will help stop young and low pay LGBT + worker be deny work because of who they be . LGBT + worker often have to come out to their employer when ask for time off , but the Employment Rights Bill introduce a new day one right to bereavement leave and a default right to flexible working , both of which will make it easy for LGBT + worker to get what they be entitle to without have to tell their life story to their employer . the Minister have confirm she will reform outdated gender recognition law and will soon be come forward with inclusive plan to outlaw conversion practice , a promise repeatedly make by the last Conservative Government but which they again and again fail to deliver . labour will finally stop this license abuse of LGBT + people . as part of our plan for change we will be modernise healthcare for trans people and we will be put a specialist mental health professional in every school . we be also roll out Young Futures hub in every community , bring back those youth service . this Labour Government will also put neighbourhood police back on our street and make LGBT + hate crime an aggravate offence . LGBT + History Month be a time to celebrate everything that have be achieve but also to acknowledge the work still to do to win true equality . this new Labour Government will transform LGBT + people ' s live again , just as we do before , and our plan for change will rebuild the NHS , the police and the education system that we all need , whether we be LGBT + or not . I call Mims Davies . it be a privilege to close the debate for his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . I thank the many member who have contribute this afternoon , I thank Mr Speaker for his recent reception celebrate LGBT + history Month , and I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for all you do in this space . we have have an important and wide - range debate , and I apologise because many of my colleague have be attend the debate in Westminster Hall so there be not as many of we here as before . that be slightly troubling , but I be sure some people be pleased about it . in last year ' s debate I be particularly strike by the word of my former colleague and dear friend , the former Member for Carshalton and Wallington , Elliot Colburn . he say : " LGBT + people have always exist ; we do not just pop out of the ground in the 1960 and 1970 and start march through the street of London and other city . " — [ Official Report , 7 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 393WH . ] that have strike I strongly this year . I say to he and Jed that their engagement be the good night ever . the former Member for Sutton and Cheam , Paul Scully and I have a brilliant evening , and we be still wait for that wedding . I agree with the Minister that under - 40 do not see or feel any difference . that have be roundly celebrate in the Chamber this afternoon . in reject and , frankly , move on from the culture war , we must all keep compassion , safety , fairness and equality for all at the heart of this debate . if we do that this LGBT + history Month , we will do the debate justice . it be a pleasure , as I have say , to speak on my party ' s behalf . the hon . member for Jarrow and Gateshead East ( Kate Osborne ) speak about the importance of ally , and that be extremely important . the Minister talk about Fast Track Cymru and welcome that work . there have be lot of huge and ongoing work that , if we all put every sinew to it , make such a big difference . the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) highlight that it be far from weak for someone to show who they really be and to be visible , and that the friendship that our LGBT + trans community friend give we be wonderful . they be hero to we , and the good night out be with our LGBT + friend . as a heterosexual woman of a certain age in the gay Parliament in the world , I think it probably explain my ongoing single status and why I have such a good time . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) speak about the work of the many individual who continue to stand up and help those friend , constituent and colleague to come forward . the difference that ally make will never change . I absolutely agree with the point she make that further cause by put individual safety at risk be extremely unhelpful , and right be not a zero - sum game . the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) speak about the work that she have long do in this area and the importance of recognise that family come in all shape , size and form . as a single parent for not far off the last decade , I think there be still much stigma around what a family look and feel like . we all need to keep work to tackle that . the hon . member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) speak about the incredible Nick , and I think we would all love to meet he . the hon . member reflect on those live with HIV and AIDS lose friend and face their own mortality , which be extremely powerful , but he also mention the power of hug , and hug for all do make everybody feel well . the hon . member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) speak about bravery , and she absolutely be a brave member . she be always happy to speak on what she truly believe in , and that be all we can ask for in this House . all power to she . the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) talk about link arm , and I love that . that be such a powerful image for we . the hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) speak about Pride event and the opportunity to feel part of something big and to tackle isolation and loneliness . I be proud that our party bring forward the first Minister for loneliness . I , alongside the wonderful former Member of this House , Tracey Crouch , have that role . what a brilliant , amazing , globally recognise role it be . those Pride marche be a great opportunity to break down isolation and loneliness . I have a couple of point for the Minister . on the Conservatives ' amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , we think it be important , as I highlight early , that parent , love one and carer can view what be go on in the classroom in RSHE . the Minister share her challenge in the classroom . I wonder whether , have she have parental support back then and be able to share those material , life would have be easy . I reiterate to parent , carer and love one that if we want to have true understanding , true discussion and conversation at home matter equally . I urge the Minister to work with I to help stand up for woman on the woman ' s health strategy . it be right that we be focus on equality and fairness for all . I hope that she , in her position on behalf of all woman — whatever their sexual orientation — can be clear that we should have that focus , because woman ' s health need be different . we can be fair , promote equality for all , protect our child and focus on liberty , but we must ensure that woman ' s health be at the heart of that . as I say early , some of the strong and true conservative belief be freedom and opportunity for liberty and equality . they should always be at the heart of the discussion . I mention some of my party ' s milestone . back in 2013 , the Conservatives fund the first ever HIV testing campaign for black , asian and minority ethnic people , which be extremely important . in 2019 , our party elect the most openly LGBT + mps of any party — that might have be supersede in these last few month — and this legislature be recognise as have the most LGBT + member in the world , which be quite amazing , really . under the Conservatives we see a reduction in HIV diagnosis of 73 % by 2021 . in the same year , the number of people with HIV live beyond the age of 50 hit an all - time high , and one of the high figure in the world . in 2021 , we introduce the HIV action plan , which need to be update by 2030 , to end new HIV infection . in 2022 , people with HIV but no detectable virus be rightly able to join the military and fully deploy on operation . in 2023 , barrier to access IVF be remove for lesbian couple , as they be in 2024 for those live with HIV . I say to young people listen and watch that this debate be an important reminder of why month of celebration like LGBT + History Month be really important . an awareness of history assist we all in our understanding while all community in this country and those around the world look to we . I tell young people not to be afraid to be themselves . they should know that they will thrive when they be themselves . I say as their Member of Parliament , or as an ally to they : we be here for you to reach out to and to listen to you . as we conservative believe that love be love , I be proud to stand up for woman ' s right and for all equal right . we can all continue to do that positively in this place and elsewhere in the spirit in which the debate have rightly be hold . all our constituent need that . I thank all hon . member for the constructive debate that we have have . I thank in particular the spokesperson for the Opposition , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , for her excellent contribution . she remind we that the theme for this LGBT + History Month be activism and social change . she pay tribute to Alan Turing , as other hon . member do , and remind we of her party ' s achievement in government and the progress make there . she — very helpfully — give her full commitment to end the transmission of HIV infection by 2030 . we welcome that cross - party support . the hon . Lady ask about the relationship , sex and health education guidance . the Government be engage with stakeholder include parent , teacher and pupil to discuss the draft guidance on RSHE and gender questioning in school and college , and draw from available evidence , include the Cass review , to finalise the guidance . we be take the time to get this right and consider all available evidence alongside the consultation response before set out the next step . it be absolutely good practice for school and govern body to share their RSHE policy with parent . I thank the Minister for chair an excellent roundtable yesterday through the all - party parliamentary human right group . the key message we hear from human right campaigner from east Africa and global organisation be that we be experience LGBT history right now in the cut to US Government funding be force out by insidious transnational anti - right campaign . the call for the UK to step in and fill the gap leave by the US Government be very clear , and I hope the Minister will be take that forward . absolutely . we have commit £ 40 million to those very aim . we will be step up to the mark with both our financial commitment and our leadership on the international stage . we also hear from the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . I thank she for her excellent work , and particularly for undertake some very difficult discussion . I will certainly refer the discussion and evidence session on puberty blocker that she have enable to my right hon . friend the Education Secretary . like many other member , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North also mention Labour ' s proud achievement . however , I know she also want to ensure that we keep to our manifesto commitment , and I know she will not allow any backsliding on this . I can give she that assurance — in the same way that my colleague , the Minister for Women and Equalities , do yesterday — that we be absolutely on track to bring forward a draft Bill on conversion practice , deliver a fully trans - inclusive ban that will provide safety for LGBT + people subject to those practice . that draft Bill will then have the opportunity to go through pre - legislative scrutiny . the spokesperson for the Lib Dems , the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , tell we about LGBT history in Scotland and the progress from a very hostile environment to a much more accept environment now . she also remind we that in this recent toxic debate , especially in respect of trans people , it be very important that we stick together . this be an important fight for we all , and we must take it very seriously . she particularly mention help school and business to tackle bullying , which be a fight we can never , ever stop fight — no matter how much we do , there be always a danger of backslide on such thing , and we all need to be aware of that . my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow and Gateshead East ( Kate Osborne ) be quick to remind we how proud she be of her diversity and of the importance of activism in stop attitude backslide . I be sorry to hear of the unfortunate happening after the Pride march in her home town last year , and I very much hope that this year thing will be well . I be glad to hear that people be fight back and face down that hostility . she also mention tackle the increase in hate crime , especially transphobic hate , and the pride she have in the fact that we be introduce the conversion practice ban and our HIV action plan . she mention her work at the Council of Europe . I pay tribute to her huge effort there and to the work she be now do on puberty blocker . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) tell we of her activism , particularly in Unison , in respect of equalise the age of consent and the impact of section 2A in Scotland , the section 28 equivalent in England and Wales . she mention the many success of her campaign , but say that people be still live in fear and that there be still much to do , particularly internationally . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) give some very difficult reflection on the early ' 80 and the fear and stigma of HIV . he talk about the progress make on a range of treatment , remind we that HIV be much wide than just the LGBT + community , and say how much he support our HIV action plan . again , he be worried about row back on LGBT right and the attack on diversity , equality and inclusion . as he say , we should all embrace diversity — he be so right — to make the most of our talent , and to do the most good socially and economically . of course , we have now name the office in government take care of these responsibility as the Office for Equality and Opportunity . my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) talk about how far we have come , but that there be still huge difficulty , especially for tran people . she talk about homelessness , suicide rate and how trans people have be use as a political football . she very clearly state that as a woman she see no conflict between stand up for woman ' s right and stand up for tran people . she rightly point out that attack on trans people be from some of the very same source that very happily attack woman ' s right , so we should not think that there be a conflict between stand up for woman and stand up for tran people . again , she make a very strong call for action and say a well world be possible . my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) make reference to the very sad story of her predecessor Paul Latham . she mention the historic achievement we have make since then , and I also love her description of her dog in its rainbow outfit . my hon . friend the Member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) tell we about the power of Parliament in increase LGBT + right , but also about the power of ordinary LGBT + people live out their life , confront the shame that very often they have to face down , and stand up and be visible . again , she say that we should never , ever be complacent . my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) contrast the London she come to many year ago — I will not say how many — with the labour achievement since , but mention the slowdown in progress , and the worry about progress go forward and the need to stand up for LGBT + people . she mention the Employment Rights Bill , which do so much for the right of all our worker . I draw the attention of the House not just to the achievement of the past , but to the opportunity of the future . as I say very clearly , we will publish draft legislation outline a fully trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice . we be commit to change hate crime legislation to bring parity of protection for LGBT + people and we be determined to regain our place in the international arena as an example of progress , not decline . as history show we , progress be not static . new challenge will always emerge and hard - win right must not only be cherish but guard . that be why the Government be commit to uphold Britain ' s long - stand record of protect the right of individual and ensure that the Equality Act protect everyone . but there be other who would gladly reverse that , return we to a time when discrimination be permissible , even empower , under the law . we must be ever mindful of such intention and remember from our history why we do not wish to revisit such time . lawful discrimination , section 28 , vilification and rejection by wide society be history , and they must remain such . whenever LGBT + people have face ingrain hostility or a rise tide of persecution and vilification , we have meet it with bravery and resolve . we must remember these lesson , and apply they to the time . progress be not inevitable — it must be fight for — and that struggle continue , one in which we must all play our part to ensure that we move forward and never back . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider LGBT + history Month . petition - Respiratory Syncytial Virus Vaccine Eligibility Criteria People with respiratory illness , such as my constituent Jane Wessman , benefit greatly from receive the free respiratory syncytial virus vaccine and also the shingles vaccine . the arbitrary decision to end eligibility for these vaccine at the age of 80 have a profound effect on those who need it the most . accordingly , my constituent and other would like to see the age barrier lift and the vaccine continue to be available after the age of 80 . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the Government take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to seek a reallocation of fund to ensure that the provision of the free Respiratory Syncytial Virus vaccine dose and Shingles vaccine dose be extend to those individual who be 80 year of age or old . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that extend the eligibility criterion for the free Respiratory Syncytial Virus vaccine and the Shingles vaccine dose to individual who be 80 year of age or old would bring considerable health benefit ; note that the former illness can cause acute respiratory infection , influenza - like illness , community - acquire pneumonia and lead to death and the latter illness can cause decrease vision or permanent blindness ; and note that vaccine dose for the Respiratory Syncytial Virus and Shingles virus be recommend to all individual 80 year of age and over in the United States of America and in the European Union . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to seek a reallocation of fund to ensure that the provision of the free Respiratory Syncytial Virus vaccine dose and Shingles vaccine dose be extend to those individual who be 80 year of age or old . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003045 ] reform of Private Family Law Hearings Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) it be a sad reality of life that marriage fail . it can happen for a variety of reason , and I do not seek to provide a critique on the underlie cause in today ' s debate . however , one of the tragic consequence of divorce be the disruption and pain that it cause to child . it be evident that an amicable relationship between parent would enable arrangement in respect of where a child reside follow a divorce to be make without the intervention of the court , avoid much additional heartache and the adversarial nature of contested hearing ; but such contest hearing can not be avoid in each and every case . while it may be the intention of the system to protect the privacy of individual and family during these hearing , the reality be an increasingly inefficient and , at time , unresponsive system that fail to place the emotional and psychological need of the party at its centre . the flaw in the present system be regrettably clear for all to see , and in fail to address they , party be leave with a system that undermine the very value that it seek to uphold — value such as fairness and natural justice , with the wellbeing of child at their core . this be such a vast topic that it would be inconceivable to address all the issue in the course of an Adjournment debate , and I will therefore focus on the constitution of those on the bench who hear child arrangement order case . the reason be simple : the anchor point in all family law case involve a child should always be that child ' s good interest , and the creation of an outcome that support and promote the child ' s safety and emotional and psychological wellbeing and protect his or her future prospect . it be almost inevitable that each and every member of this House will have have experience of child arrangement order in some way , shape or form , whether through constituency casework , personal experience or family and friend , because such case be sadly far from rare . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will tell the story of one such case , which I suspect will resonate with many up and down the country , because it be sadly an all - too - familiar experience . this be the story of a young child who , by virtue of their age , can not fully articulate their want or desire , whose loyalty be split in two , who do not want to be see to betray either parent , who be already deal with their world be turn upside down and whose future be decide in a sterile magistrate court , often as a mere timetable exercise . that child now face birthday , Christmas and Easter all split in half , with week cut in two and weekend alternate between one household and another , leave they with no sense of oikophilia — the love of home . this be a child who feel different from their classmate because they be force to go to school with their overnight bag ; a child who constantly live with the anxiety of turn up to school without their sport kit because it be at the other parent ' s house ; a child who feel nomadic , often confused and invariably distressed . the scale of the problem can be see starkly in the figure from the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service . as of 31 August last year , there be 16 , 671 open private law child ' s case involve 25 , 670 child . in the first quarter of 2024 , the average time for such case to reach a final order be some 44 week . during that period , child be leave with uncertainty . magistrate have form an integral element of the England and Wales legal system since the 12th century and the reign of Richard I , who appoint the first keeper of the peace . almost 200 year later , pursuant to the Justices of the Peace Act 1361 , the term " justice of the peace " be formally introduce . I do not propose reform of the role of magistrate lightly . however , I have reach the view that there be an overwhelming policy argument for do so . I be not for one moment suggest that magistrate do not have an important role to play in the justice system ; self - evidently , that would be a fallacy . however , I be increasingly convinced that the nature and focus of their work should be reconsider , and in the case of child arrangement order , it be my overwhelming view that the magistrate court should no long play a role . the reason for mount this argument be simple : there be an inequality in our legal system when it come to private law family case . these be case that decide the nature and degree of contact a child have with each parent , determine the long - term future of a child and , by their very nature , have a significant , lasting impact upon any child . presently in this country , private law child ' s case can be hear before a bench of three magistrate or a district judge with a family ticket . magistrate be a lay bench who , well - meaning as they may be , be not require to hold any formal legal qualification . while magistrate undergo some specific training follow their appointment , it be not more than a handful of day a year . in comparison , a district judge hear such case undergo much more rigorous training and must have a law qualification as a prerequisite . the stake in case such as these could not be high . this singular , most important decision , if misjudge , can set in motion a truly devastating series of event , thereby irreversibly damage a child and their life chance . let we contrast that with the role of magistrate in the criminal court . the maximum sentence that magistrate can hand down be 12 month . sentence beyond that be remit to the Crown court to be hear by a circuit judge . in comparison , a decision about a child ' s domestic arrangement until adulthood be frequently make by individual with no specialist knowledge or training in family law . furthermore , in the absence of formal legal training , subconscious bias be likely to run high among magistrate than among member of the judiciary . we can also take note of the approach take by other court in England and Wales . specialist judge preside over employment , immigration , business and property , and social entitlement case . even in case where a panel of three hear the case , it be a legally qualified , specialist judge who sit in the chair . give the importance of such decision to a child ' s long - term prospect , the outdated practice of magistrate hear private law child ' s case should , in my humble opinion , be abolish . it be an inefficient and unreliable system of dispense justice in the modern world , and it run the risk of reach inconsistent decision of vary and questionable quality . far too often , one hear of case simply be decide as a timetable exercise , and of a child ' s weekly diary be carve up without proper thought or consideration of the impact on that child . remove the role of magistrate in private law family case , and ensure that all such case be hear by a specialist family judge , would ensure great consistency of decision making , apply a more judicious and impartial approach . on this most consequential of issue , we should ensure that those who preside over family case be not only appropriately legally train but well verse in the emotional , psychological and social factor at play . there should be much great focus on ensure that decision maker be train in childhood development , domestic abuse dynamic and trauma - inform practice . the system in England and Wales be virtually unique in permit lay magistrate to determine such matter , with most jurisdiction across the world entrust the decision to a suitably qualified judge . in more complex case , we should consider the use of specialised panel , as deploy in other tribunal . such panel could have a judge as chair and suitably qualified wing member , who may include expert in child psychology . by adopt this model , the panel can take a more holistic approach to decision making . my ask of the Minister be very simple . if we aim to create a well future for our child , if we truly believe in progress and not merely maintain the status quo , and if we be to be believe when we talk of improve life chance for generation to come , the Minister should commit to reform this outdated and harmful system , and ensure that all child arrangement case be appropriately consider by a qualified judge . I congratulate the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) on secure this important debate , and I applaud the thoughtful and consider way that he have approach a very challenging area . I think we all want to mitigate the disruption and pain that family law hearing cause to child , and he be correct to say that we all want to have child ' s good interest as the anchor point in everything we do . I applaud the way that he set out his concern . it be well know that family breakdown be almost always challenge . at time , dispute be unavoidable and often intense , with child catch in the middle . the family court play a crucial role in resolve such dispute . I want to clarify that magistrate who sit in the family court be formally refer to as " lay justice " . however , for the purpose of today ' s debate , I will use the term " family magistrate " , as it be more widely recognise . the hon . member be well aware that the family justice system in England and Wales rely on the work that family magistrate do to ensure that the most vulnerable member of society , particularly child , be protect and that their good interest be prioritise . I welcome his word about the importance of magistrate in our justice system , even though he have concern about the role that they play in this particular area . although family magistrate do not have formal legal qualification , they undergo a rigorous selection and a comprehensive training process that be provide by the Judicial College , and it be worth note that family magistrate be involve in family proceeding long before the inception of the family court in 2014 . before that , family magistrate in the civil and county court would sit on family proceeding and make decision about arrangement for child . there be a long history of that in our law . family magistrate be recruit from the community and bring a diverse range of impartial perspective and experience to the court . this diversity help to ensure decision be fair . it be crucial that we recognise and preserve their contribution to the family justice system for several compelling reason , especially in the light of the argument make by the hon . gentleman in both his recent article and this debate , suggest that family magistrate should no long be able to make child arrangement order . the House will know that these be family court order that detail arrangement for a child , include where the child will live and how they will spend time with each parent . the hon . Gentleman have clearly spell out some of the implication . the Government appreciate the concern raise by the hon . Gentleman regard the training of magistrate . however , we believe the exist system have safeguard in place , which I will outline to offer reassurance not only to he but to everyone listen to this debate . I be talk about the training that magistrate receive , the role of the justice ' legal adviser , and the robust protocol the family court have for allocate and reallocate case . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the quality of training provide to magistrate be of a high standard . to safeguard their independence from Government , the statutory responsibility for training family magistrate rest with the Lady Chief Justice , as set out in the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 . these responsibility be exercise through the Judicial College , which offer a comprehensive training programme to equip family magistrate with the necessary skill and knowledge to handle the intricacy of private law child ' s case effectively . this training ensure that family magistrate be prepared to make informed decision that prioritise the welfare of the child involve . further information on the college ' s training programme can be find on the judiciary ' s website . when sit in the family court , family magistrate be support by the justice ' legal adviser , who be qualified to provide advice on the law and procedure that family magistrate must follow , and who be also subject to an ongoing family training requirement . all judge , include family magistrate who hear application for child arrangement order , be obligate by the Children Act 1989 to have the child ' s welfare as their paramount consideration and must undergo extensive training . to be appoint as a family magistrate , each individual must undertake training on determine the good interest of the child , navigate the welfare checklist , and way of communicate with people in court , particularly where there be high conflict . let I emphasise and underline the role of justice ' legal adviser in assist family magistrate in these case . a panel of family magistrate decide case with the presence and involvement of the justice ' legal adviser . the recent case law , Derbyshire County Council v . Marsden , confirm that these adviser play " an integral , and legally require , part of the decision making process . " justice ' legal adviser provide essential guidance and support to family magistrate , ensure that decision be make with a thorough understanding of the complexity of family law , and always prioritise the good interest of the child involve . nor be family magistrate operate in a vacuum . they rely on assessment carry out by train professional for arrangement order , prohibit step order and other key ruling when make arrangement for child . this collaborative approach enhance the quality of the family court ' s decision in these very sensitive case . family magistrate do not deal with the most complex case in the family court . establish rule and guidance determine the appropriate level of judiciary base on a number of factor , include the complexity of the case . case involve certain complexity will be immediately allocate to other tier of the judiciary — district judge , circuit judge and , at the most serious level , High Court judge — in accordance with the issue guidance . it be like a lift that the judiciary enter at the appropriate level . the judiciary , include family magistrate , have an ongoing duty to keep allocation decision under review , particularly if further information be receive from the party and the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service . the case can then be reallocate to a more appropriate level of judge depend on the complexity and the issue in the case , and that can happen in the course of proceeding . the system ensure that magistrate handle appropriate case for which they be train , while more complex case be manage at a different level of the judiciary , depend on the issue in the case . the mechanism not only maintain the efficiency of the legal process , but ensure that justice be serve appropriately . family magistrate also play an essential role in the effective functioning of our family justice system . the number of outstanding case in the system have grow since 2018 , and the average time take for case reach a high of 47 week in 2023 under the previous Government , which be similar to the datum the hon . member share early . while we have take step to address the underlie issue , which mean we be on track to reduce the outstanding caseload by more than 10 % , there be still significant challenge face the system . family magistrate routinely deal with a number of case about child . remove that capacity from the system would fundamentally undermine the effective administration of justice , but more than that , the resultant delay in resolve case would have a profound impact on the wellbeing of the child involve and on parent seek to resolve their issue . furthermore , the Government remain committed to reform private family law process where appropriate . just last week , the Government announce that our new pathfinder model of private family law proceeding will be extend to mid and west Wales in March and to West Yorkshire in June . it be a significant reimagining of private law proceeding , with dedicated support for domestic abuse survivor , up - front multi - agency information sharing and a great emphasis on the voice of the child through the production of a child impact report . those proceeding allow our judge , include family magistrate , to have a much rich understanding of a family ' s circumstance from the outset and ensure that party be fully support by professional . it be clear that family magistrate be indispensable in hear private law child ' s case . their collaboration with justice ' legal adviser , the quality of their training , the mechanism for allocate and reallocate difficult case and their contribution in alleviate the burden on all our judge be all critical factor that contribute to a more efficient and effective legal system . by maintain the involvement of family magistrate in those case , we can ensure that the good interest of our child , which be what we be all focus on , be uphold and that justice be deliver in a timely and compassionate manner . question put and agree to . House adjourn .