Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Climate Change : International Leadership what step he be take to establish international leadership on climate change . today , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , be already at COP29 in Baku , where he will be lead climate negotiation . he send his apology . the Prime Minister be also at COP29 and will be speak at the global leader summit , announce our ambitious 1 . 5 ° c - align nationally determine contribution and show that the UK be truly back on the international stage . a write statement will also be make later today . I welcome the leadership the Government be show , in particular on NDCs , as my hon . friend mention . the news that this year be likely to be the hot on record across the world be deeply concern and remind we that climate breakdown be a global challenge that we must all face . do the Minister agree that we must have ambitious plan at home , so that we can go to COP and challenge other world leader to do more to tackle climate change ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . there be a direct link between take action to protect the british people at home and lead on climate action abroad . if we want to protect our country from future energy shock and the runaway cost of climate chaos , we must work with other country to protect our planet . we now have the credibility to do that because of the action we have take since enter government , as be apparent when I attend pre - cop meeting in Baku last month and as the Prime Minister will demonstrate in Baku today . I warmly welcome the new Government target to cut carbon emission , and I know the Secretary of State and the Minister thoroughly understand the importance of join - up action on climate justice . can she tell we whether every single Government policy across every Government Department will now be assess to check whether it be compatible with 1 . 5 ° ? what step be the Government take to ensure the global south be properly compensate for climate loss and damage ? on the second point first , at this cop we want to ensure that we fully operationalise the loss and damage fund , so we then start get money into it and channel money to develop country . we also want to do that through the new collective quantified goal , which we hope will be ambitious and multi - layered . on the question of look at our policy across the piece , that be very much my job . we will be respond soon to the Committee on Climate Change ' s report , which the hon . Lady will know be quite critical of the previous Government ' s action . we will be set out our plan to implement the NDC and look at the next carbon budget . all those thing require effort share across department to ensure we actually meet they . it be about not just set ambitious target , but make sure that , unlike the previous Government , we have a strategy to get we there . rise — I call Noah Law . be you stand ? indicate dissent . okay , I call Toby Perkins . here ' s a man who be ready to go ! I be ready to go , and so be the Prime Minister — it be great to see he in Baku show leadership . the recent Cali conference be a disappointment . ultimately , nation be not able to reach agreement . alongside the positive step the UK Government be take , what conversation be we have with international partner to recognise the necessity of an agreement that bring all western nation together in show equal ambition ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I know he be at Cali . there be some progress on such issue as digital sequence information , but more need to be do . we be very seized of the need to join up action on the nature and climate crisis . when I head out to COP29 tomorrow , Members will hopefully hear more from we on our effort to protect forest and on the support we be give to country at risk of deforestation . we be also look at nature - base solution to climate change . the nature Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) — will be out there as well , and we will have more to say , but I entirely agree with my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) that we can not deal with one crisis in isolation from the other . for the UK to be an international leader on climate change we need to bring the business community with we . the Summer Berry Company in my constituency recently invest £ 8 million in ensure it be carbon neutral , but it be then quote a furth £ 3 million to be able to feed its excess energy into the grid . what be the Minister do to make additional grid connection affordable and accessible for green business ? the energy Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) — be very much involve with that issue . we have also set up the energy superpower mission board , head by Chris Stark . I have a conversation with he yesterday about what we can do to ensure grid capacity and grid connection in the right place . if the hon . Lady have a specific issue to raise and would like to write to I , I will make sure it be pass on to he . I call the shadow Minister , whom I welcome to the Front Bench . when I ask the Secretary of State about the appointment of Rachel Kyte as his international climate envoy during our last question session , he fail to say whether Quadrature Capital ' s £ 4 million donation to the Labour party have be declare to the Department before her appointment , and I have still not receive a reply to my letter of 17 October . will the Minister tell I whether the Secretary of State declare those interest to the Department before Rachel Kyte ' s appointment , and whether Ministers have ever meet director of Quadrature Capital or Quadrature Climate Foundation ? I be sure that the shadow Minister will receive a reply to her letter in due course , but I can tell she that Rachel Kyte be extremely well respected , and that her appointment as our special representative have be welcome across the board . Clean Energy by 2030 what progress he have make on achieve clean energy by 2030 . what progress he have make on achieve clean energy by 2030 . what progress he have make on achieve clean power by 2030 . what progress he have make on achieve clean power by 2030 . in just four short month , we have make rapid progress on achieve our mission for clean power by 2030 . we have set up great British Energy and announce its headquarters in Aberdeen , secure a record - break 131 renewable project , and consent to record amount of solar . we be get on with deliver low bill , energy security , good job and climate action . Rolls - Royce in Derby be an international leader in research on and the development of small modular reactor , and it be fantastic that the Government have acknowledge the role that smr will play in clean power generation , energy security and green job . in the Budget , we hear that the final decision on great british Nuclear ' s SMR competition will conclude next spring . do the Minister agree that it be important for this opportunity to be seize as soon as possible ? I agree with my hon . friend that nuclear will play a central role in our clean power mission , and will continue to be a critical part of our energy mix as we progress towards 2030 and far beyond . great British Nuclear be continue to drive forward the competition on small modular reactor , with bid currently be evaluate by the Department , and I look forward to have more to say about this in due course . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . the last Government hold a consultation on electricity market arrangement , but despite have say that that be their flagship policy in this area , they do not publish the result of that consultation . do my hon . friend agree that electricity and , indeed , energy market reform be crucial to achieve the Government ' s state 2030 clean energy target and to reduce bill , and can he say whether this Government will publish the result of the last Government ' s consultation and if so , when ? I congratulate my hon . friend again on his appointment as Chair of the Select Committee — he bring a huge amount of knowledge and experience to the role — and I agree with he about the importance of review electricity market arrangement . we be build on the last government ' s consultation , and we will have more to say in the month ahead . this be a crucial element of how we achieve clean power by 2030 and ensure that our energy system of the future be fit for what will be a different way of manage energy throughout the country . we will have more to say about that in the month ahead . last week a report publish by the National Energy System Operator note that although the programme to roll out new small modular reactor be be develop for the mid - 2030s , a 2030 roll - out date would in fact be possible . give that SMR technology hold exciting and significant potential for investment in job and infrastructure in constituency such as mine , have the Minister consider the value of bring the roll - out forward to 2030 ? my hon . friend be right to say that nuclear will play a vital role , and that it not only deliver on our energy security but create good , well - pay job . unlike the last Government , who in 14 year do not deliver a single nuclear project — there be many consultation and process , but not a single nuclear power station be build — this Government be get on with deliver a nuclear future . last week ' s report from the National Energy System Operator show that not only be clean power by 2030 achievable , but it can lead to low bill and more secure system . do the Minister agree that the only way to protect bill payer permanently be to go as far and as fast as possible towards our clean power mission by 2030 ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the report publish by the independent National Energy System Operator lay out not only that reach our clean power mission be entirely achievable , but that it will bring down bill . the importance of the report be that it set the course for how that be possible . the reality , which the conservative party refuse to accept , be that the only way to get we off the rollercoaster of high bill be to deliver at pace the clean energy that we know will deliver energy security and climate leadership , and bring down bill for people right across the country . I be delighted that the Minister be set out that the report promise an extra £ 40 billion of investment a year in the energy sector and , presumably , the taxis to go with it , which will of course come from the business that be pay for everything else in the Budget that have just go by . be there anything at all in his proposal that will actually bring down the cost of energy and not be replace by taxpayer funding ? it appear at the moment that there be nothing , and energy price be already go up . I would encourage the right hon . Gentleman to read the NESO report , because it set out in great detail not only that clean power be achievable by 2030 , but that it will lead to low bill . what he say about investment miss the point : in the last few week , we have announce billion of pound of private sector investment in these project ; indeed , Scottish Power have announce today that it will provide £ 1 billion . company be choose to invest in this country , whereas they do not under the conservative party . the reality be that once upon a time , the Conservatives recognise that the drive to net zero be important . they have abandon that commitment now . I thank the Minister for agree to meet the offset — offshore electricity grid taskforce — group of MPs later today ; we be very much look forward to the meeting . do he recognise that achieve the 2030 deadline set out in the NESO report require an acceleration of the process , which , in turn , be dependent on much high level of public consent ? I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s point , and I be look forward to meet he and his colleague this afternoon to discuss the particular issue in his area . we need to build more network infrastructure across the UK to make this endeavour a reality , but he be right : we want to bring community with we on this journey . that be why we have say that we be look again at what community benefit will look like , build on some of the work that the previous Government do in consult on this issue . crucially , however , if want to bring down bill and deliver energy security , we will have to build the infrastructure , and that be what this Government be commit to do . the Minister know well the Liberal Democrats ’ commitment to community energy . will the Government establish a clean community energy scheme , look at the barrier that currently face community energy project and look at support the National Grid to deliver community energy ? the hon . Lady and I have have a number of conversation , and I recognise her commitment on this issue . we have commit in the local power plan to deliver investment in community energy across the country . importantly , we want not only to invest in scheme , but to deliver across Government the mechanism need to make it more possible for community to deliver such scheme . that will build capacity in community so that we can see more community energy . what be the beef behind the Government ' s reluctance to embrace with enthusiasm locally generate community energy ? why do they vote against the amendment table to the great british Energy Bill by the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) ? I think the right hon . Gentleman think that be a " gotcha " question , but , of course , the conservative party do not vote for the Bill at all . Amendment or not , I do not think he can really speak about what great British Energy might deliver , because , despite it be one of the most popular policy at the last election , the Conservatives fail to bother to vote for it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last week , the National Energy System Operator publish a full system cost analysis of the Secretary of State ' s flagship project to carbonise the grid by 2030 . this morning , the Secretary of State say on several medium outlet that the report show that his plan will lower bill . I remind the House that the report assume that gas price be 40 % high than the Department ' s own estimate , that the price of carbon price be at least double what it be now , that the Government can commission more offshore wind in the next two year than in the last six combine without move price , and that they can build the grid at a pace we have never see before in this country , without any delay . even if all that be achieve , page 78 of the report show that the cost of the system will be high . for clarity , would the Minister like to repeat at the Dispatch Box the Secretary of State ' s claim that the NESO report show that Labour ' s system will lead to a low cost of electricity ? what the shadow Secretary of State have just outline quite coherently be that the Conservatives have no ambition in this space whatsoever , but we do . I be very happy for the right hon . Lady to outline where our ambition be . we will build fast than the previous Government , although I have to say that that would not be difficult . the shadow Minister sit next to she , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , say quite clearly at their conference that the previous Government have build infrastructure far too slowly , and their former Energy Minister , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , say that their onshore wind ban be " always mad " . we be quite happy to pick up where they leave off and deliver the clean power that this country need . this be the ministerial team who tell the electorate they be go to cut their bill by £ 300 , without do any homework to find out how those plan would work . they vote against our amendment to hold they to account on their own pledge just two week ago , and now they be try to claim that the NESO report show that their approach will lower bill when in fact it show in black and white that the system will be much more expensive . do the Minister not see that if they follow this plan , we will be a warning , not an example , to the rest of the world and that the british people will be cold and poor as a result ? time and again , the Conservatives run away from their record on this in office . the reason why people right across this country be pay more on their energy bill be that the Conservatives do not get we off the rollercoaster of fossil fuel market , but we be now move at pace . the right hon . Lady may want to keep we in the vulnerable state where we be reliant on international gas market , but we be determined that we will not do that . we will bring down bill and deliver energy security . I be not ashamed to say that we will move with great ambition to deliver what this country need and to deliver the good job that go with it . great British Energy what step he be take to establish great British Energy . we be move at pace to set up great british Energy . so far we have appoint the start - up chair , J ü rgen Maier , we have announce that the headquarters will be in Aberdeen and we have progress the Bill through the House of Commons . this build on the first partnership announce for Great British Energy , with the Crown Estate , and on a recent new deal to collaborate with scottish public body . we be get on with the job of deliver 21st - century public ownership for the british people . every family and every business in my constituency pay the price of 14 year of conservative failure with rocket energy bill because the last Government fail to invest in clean energy . the Opposition continue to oppose Great British Energy . do the Minister recognise the absurdity of their argument that they be quite happy with foreign public ownership as long as it be not UK citizen who own our energy ? my hon . friend make a good point . it be important to remember that , despite what the Conservatives might have we believe , great British Energy be overwhelmingly popular with the british people . that include the people in Scotland , because of course it be not just the conservative party who do not vote for great British Energy ; surprisingly , the Scottish National party also fail to vote for a publicly own champion in our energy space . we be get on with deliver job and growth , deliver with public ownership through great British Energy . before the election , Labour say that great British Energy would cut electricity bill by £ 300 . after the election , the Labour Government vote against write that into law and instead take away people ' s winter fuel payment and make their bill more expensive . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have now say that their policy be fundamentally raise price for consumer to the tune of £ 120 per household , and we know from the NESO report that this will get bad . even if they triple the pace of wind roll - out , double the pace of grid connection and make other heroic assumption , all of this be go to bump up cost far , be it not ? we be do this from the basis of have the high electricity price in Europe . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact on british industry ? question after question from the Conservatives show that they do not recognise the part they play for 14 year in why we be pay high bill than ever before . we be the only party with an ambitious plan to get we off the volatile fossil fuel market . the Conservatives use to believe that , in our drive to net zero , we should build this infrastructure for the long term . they be now oppose it , but they will have to tell their constituent why they want to leave they expose to rise bill . fusion Power plant whether he plan to support the development of fusion power plant connect to the grid . we agree that fusion could be a globally transformative green energy solution . the UK Government ' s fusion programme continue to lead the world in the development of fusion energy , and our ambition be to continue to do so . two week ago , the Budget announcement that the first fusion power plant will be build in Bassetlaw be welcome news . can the Minister provide great detail on this commitment , alongside the funding support be make available for the next financial year ? my hon . friend be a great champion for her constituency , and I be pleased to meet she to talk about this issue and to hear her Westminster Hall debate . I look forward to visit her constituency later this month to see the fusion caf é and to visit West Burton , the site of the STEP project , after which I hope to be able to share more detail on how we will support fusion . dounreay , in my constituency , be the site of the UK ' s first fission reactor . today , we have a highly skilled workforce , a licensed site and a local population that warmly support the industry . will the Government seriously consider involve Dounreay as we bring fusion to its wonderful fruition ? I think fusion have huge potential , and so many company stand to benefit . it be not just about the ultimate goal of fusion energy ; it be also about all the technological advance we will discover . I have speak to fusion company which be , for example , find use for cancer treatment . I be very interested to hear what the hon . Gentleman have to say about the possibility of fusion in his constituency . we want to see this proceed . if he drop I a line , I will be happy to explore the opportunity in his patch . I call the shadow Minister . we have speak a lot about the conservative party ' s record in government , and I be very proud of our record on fusion . we launch the Fusion Futures programme to provide up to £ 55 million of funding to train more than 2 , 000 people , we become the first country in the world to regulate fusion as a distinct energy technology , and we launch the process to build the spherical tokamak for energy production — I can not say that as quickly — at what will be the first fusion power plant at West Burton in Nottinghamshire . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] member be very welcome . will the Minister confirm that it be still the Government ' s intention , as it be ours , to have fusion power on the grid by 2040 ? as I mention , I be very much look forward to visit West Burton soon . the Budget announce significant support for fusion energy in 2025 - 26 and , yes , we remain as ambitious as the previous Government for the potential of fusion energy . have confirm that 2040 be still the ambition , which do the Minister think will come first : fusion on the grid or the final investment decision on Sizewell C ? the final investment decision on Sizewell C , as I understand it , be expect soon . we will hear more about support for that in the next spending review . fusion energy have huge potential , not just in the long term but from the innovation we be already see in that sphere , which I very much welcome . Carbon Capture and Storage what plan he have to support the development of carbon capture , utilisation and storage project at Acorn . what recent step his Department have take to support carbon capture and storage . on 4 October , the Government announce £ 21 . 7 billion over the next 25 year to launch the UK ' s carbon capture , utilisation and storage industry . we will provide further detail on the next step for CCUS , include track 2 project such as Acorn , in the come month . I thank the Minister for her encouraging answer . acorn , include the St Fergus site in Aberdeenshire , not only have a significant role to play in achieve net zero in Scotland , but have the capacity to accept carbon from mainland Europe . this project could help the UK and Europe to achieve their net zero goal , and be significant not only for the port of Peterhead in my constituency , as the Minister know , but for the local power station , which share the same integrated ambition . acorn present very significant opportunity , represent hundred of million of pound in new investment , new job and economic growth for the north - east , for Scotland and for the UK . can the Minister accelerate the decision making on the Acorn project , and will she commit to funding in 2025 ? we be commit to track 2 , and I recognise the huge advantage of Acorn that the hon . Gentleman have highlight . our record £ 21 . 7 billion investment demonstrate our long - term commitment and give industry the certainty it need . the up and down of CCUS under the previous Government do not provide the certainty that people require , and certainty be what we be look to deliver . we understand that people want clarity , and we will be make further announcement in the come month . the path to carbon capture and storage be litter with failure : three previous project never get off the ground , despite lot of taxpayer money go into they . what precisely be the Government go to do to ensure that this project deliver ? if the hon . Lady would look towards I a little bit , I will be able to hear the question . we realise that CCUS be an emerge industry , but it be also one that we can lead on internationally , thank to the unique geography of the North sea . we will do all we can to help industry scale up in this technology , which we believe will play a crucial role in our mission towards clean power . National Grid : Energy mix whether he have have recent discussion with National Grid on diversify the energy mix of its network . the Government regularly meet stakeholder to discuss the development of our energy infrastructure . last week , the Government receive advice from the National Energy System Operator outline its advice on the pathway towards clean power by 2030 . later this year we will publish our 2030 action plan , which will set out detail on the future of our energy mix . offshore wind have be a real positive for our energy security and grid independence , but unfortunately not when the wind do not blow . give the election of a President who tell we he be go to " drill , baby , drill , " what revision do the Minister anticipate to his timetable towards net zero ? as I say in my previous answer , later this year we will outline our action plan on how we will deliver on the 2030 target ; there be no change to our timetable in that regard . the right hon . Gentleman raise a good point about what happen when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine , and about ensure we have a mix in our energy system . that be why we remain supportive of nuclear and why we have recently announce investment in long - duration energy storage , to ensure we can capture energy and use it when we need it . I be delight by Ofgem ' s announcement this morning that it now recommend that the propose nautilus interconnector should be locate at the Isle of Grain , not on the Suffolk coast . since I have be elect , I have make firm representation to the Minister and Ofgem , include via its consultation , that the Suffolk coast should not have be consider and brownfield site should have be consider first . will the Minister meet I to discuss other National Grid project in my constituency ? Ofgem have announce today decision on a number of interconnector . those be decision for Ofgem and not for the Government . we have recently announce the launch of a strategic spatial energy plan , to ensure that we plan such project holistically , across the whole of the United Kingdom , and take into account a number of scheme when plan future energy , such as those my hon . friend mention in her constituency . I will continue to have discussion about that with member from across the country . China ' s large offshore float wind turbine company , Ming Yang Smart Energy , plan to build its first manufacture plant outside China in Scotland . Ming Yang benefit from huge subsidy in China , but there be serious question about energy security and national security . the Secretary of State say he want to end reliance on foreign autocrat , but when he be ask about this on the radio this morning , he have no answer . will the Minister rule out allow any turbine that might be control by hostile state ? we be encourage investment in the UK to build the infrastructure that we need in the future . just today , we have announce the clean industry bonus that will give as much support as possible to company to build their supply chain here in this country . we will continue to look at supply chain and , of course , we take seriously the company , across the range of business project , that be invest in this country . there be a series of process already under way across Government . whenever anybody want to invest in this country , those process will be follow in the usual manner . Mr Speaker , will you and the Minister give the House an opportunity to celebrate the £ 1 billion of investment announce today in offshore wind in this country ? it will provide job across the country , as promise by this Government , which the british people be not use to after the past 14 year . will the Minister meet I to discuss the infrastructure require to connect that clean , secure energy to our home , in particular the Sea Link project that could have an impact in my constituency ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the fantastic announcement today by ScottishPower of £ 1 billion of investment here in the UK , build the infrastructure that we need , and deliver job and skill in this country as well . it be one of a number of announcement that we expect , because we be not agnostic in this Government on deliver the industrial strategy that we need . my hon . friend the Minister for Industry be work on that at the moment . we will deliver the job in this country to build the clean power of the future . we will deliver good , well - pay job and the energy security we need . renewable energy : Job Creation what step she be take to support job creation in the renewable energy sector . deliver good job be the drive force behind our growth and clean energy mission . great British Energy and the national wealth fund will crowd in private sector investment to spread job across the country through investment in clean energy . I be delighted that the Prime Minister have today launch the clean industry bonus , which will incentivise developer to invest in the UK ' s industrial heartland , coastal area and oil and gas community , boost job and deliver on another of our manifesto promise . I be also delighted with my hon . friend ' s commitment to deliver clean energy job . it be important to constituency such as mine in Peterborough , which could be the King ' s Cross for a new core hydrogen network — as recommend by the National Infrastructure Commission — thank to National Gas ' s Project Union . National Gas have its hydrogen - ready gas compression site in our city and we be about to open a new green technology centre to develop new green job and apprenticeship . will the Minister commit to work with local authority such as mine , college , and business such as National Gas , to deliver new job across the supply chain and in all part of the country ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s sentiment and commend the work that he be do in his constituency . low carbon technology will of course play a critical role in our future , from hydrogen to carbon capture and to renewable energy . I be pleased that , in the Budget , we see the funding of 11 hydrogen project , which will drive job and growth . I be really keen to talk to he about his plan for Peterborough become the King ' s Cross for a hydrogen network and applaud the work that be go on in his constituency around green job . rise — rise — I call Jim Farron . I or he , Mr Speaker ? [ laughter . ] Mr Speaker , perhaps if I start , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) could finish . in order to safeguard renewable job and to create new one , will the Minister consider a specific project that have hydro - turbine manufacturer such as Gilkes in Kendal , and many other around the country , work alongside our farmer to make use of stream , beck and river that go through farmland to create renewable industry and , indeed , new job ? we be ambitious to create all the job that we want to see in the green technology of the future . I would be very interested to hear more about what the hon . Gentleman have to say . the Climate Change Committee estimate that up to 750 , 000 net job could be create by 2030 . opposition Members have decide that they do not support that path . the question be : why be they object to all these new job that we will be create across our country ? warm Homes Plan what step he be take to introduce a warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce a warm home plan . what step he be take to introduce a warm home plan . we be commit to an ambitious warm home plan , which will upgrade home across the country , make they warm and cheap to run , by instal new insulation and roll out low carbon heating such as solar and heat pump . as a first step , the Government have commit an initial £ 3 . 4 billion over the next three year towards upgrade home . we have already hit the ground run with the roll out of our warm home local grant , and our warm home social housing fund . we will set out more detail in due course . too many of my constituent be live in poorly insulate social housing . new mother Dionne , for instance , have the insulation from her flat removed last year by her social landlord because it be full of mould and mildew . she be now face her second winter without insulation . will the Minister confirm that the warm home plan will introduce tough new standard to ensure that social housing provider get on and insulate their housing stock ? yes , absolutely . raise standard in the social housing sector will be a critical part of our warm home plan . we have already announce plan to lift 1 million renter out of fuel poverty by raise the minimum energy efficiency standard in both the private and the social - rent sector , which will ensure that renter no long have to live in cold , drafty home . we will also unlock £ 1 billion - worth of investment to the national wealth fund in partnership with lead bank to upgrade more social home , and we will set out more detail to build on that in due course . I thank the Minister for her commitment to the warm home plan . many of my constituent in North Somerset have write to I in recent week , detail their concern that the scheme do not take sufficient account of high energy usage due to long - term illness . will the Minister share whether the Department have any plan to look into uplift the warm home discount for participant with relevant long - term illness ? we recognise that many vulnerable people , include those with high energy usage , often bear the great burden when energy price increase . that be why we be do all we can , include by work with energy company , to make sure that we be provide additional support this winter and beyond . I will take my hon . friend ' s point away and follow up with he in due course . give that 64 % of home in Shipley have an energy performance certificate rating of d or below , I very much welcome the Government ' s commitment to the warm home plan . the charity Groundwork provide a " warm home healthy people " scheme across Bradford district , instal energy - efficiency measure , and offer advice and support on energy bill . do the Minister agree that local charity need support to continue to help those who be most in need this winter ? it be a national scandal that so many home across the country have an EPC rating that be below C — a failure of the last Government to deliver the scale of home upgrade that we need . we be determined to end the injustice of people live in cold and draughty home . I completely agree that we must do everything we can to support vulnerable household with their energy bill this winter . that be why we be provide 3 . 3 million household with the warm home discount , why we be work with energy supplier to provide additional support , include through charity , and why we have extend the household support fund . do the Minister agree that we particularly need a comprehensive warm home plan in rural area in order to identify very old home and ensure that insulation be target to maximise reduction in their energy usage ? we will ensure that we see upgrade in every part of the country ; we will be work with combined authority , local government and the devolved administration to make sure that we be deliver the scale of upgrade need across the country . in the light of the warm home plan , be the Minister aware of challenge face by homeowner who use the green home grant for spray foam insulation ? many now find their home unmortgageable , and face significant cost for removal and repair . will the Minister consider measure to support such homeowner as part of the warm home plan ? I be aware that many household have have upgrade that have not go to plan . it be critical that we build confidence , because in the end we need to persuade consumer up and down the country to have these upgrade . there be scheme under the last Administration that be not regulate and do not have the correct standard , and we be work hard to make sure that we raise standard across the piece . we be go to need a warm home plan , because with the snow and ice come in on a cold front , Scotland be see a " sum front " head north from this Labour Government : a £ 600 cut to the winter fuel payment and the pensioner ' cost of live payment — for winter weather that be here now . that be not in the manifesto . what be in the manifesto be a £ 300 cut to fuel bill , but those cost be now up by £ 450 . when will this Government do a single thing for people face fuel poverty ? we will work across the country to tackle fuel poverty , but I remind the hon . member that fuel payment be devolve . the Scottish Government have be give the big budget , and it be time to get on with the job and fix the situation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . home in the UK be among the least energy - efficient in Europe , with unparalleled health , productivity and carbon emission cost to society , as a result of the last government ' s failure to act . I agree with the Minister : it be a disgrace that this be happen in one of the large economy in the G7 . we welcome the news of the warm home plan come next year , but do the Minister agree that an emergency home insulation programme this winter , with free insulation for people on low income , be necessary so that people in South Cambridgeshire do not have to face the choice between heating and eat ? let I assure the hon . member that we be hit the ground run with home insulation . we be roll out our warm home local grant and our warm home social housing fund , to target people this winter — this year — because we need to deliver the big ever upgrade . decarbonisation : Public Sector Bodies what step he be take to support public sector body to decarbonise . as the first step towards the warm home plan , we have commit an initial £ 3 . 4 billion . that include £ 1 billion towards public sector decarbonisation , because we know that we have to ensure that our school and hospital reduce their energy bill . decarbonise the public sector be good for our net zero target , but it also release money for more teacher , nurse and street cleaner , so that saving benefit our community rather than energy giant . school across Telford be cry out for that investment . will the Minister do all she can to decarbonise the public sector in the year to come ? I completely agree ; decarbonise our public sector will not only reduce emission but low bill . we estimate that the £ 1 billion that we have allocate to public sector decarbonisation will reduce bill by about £ 40 million per year . that be a big step forward , but there be more work to do . it be clear that there be a role for all school across this great United Kingdom to play in public sector decarbonisation . they also have a role in educate the child in their classroom , who we want to be the pioneer of tomorrow . what have be do to ensure that the good thing that happen on the mainland of the United Kingdom be share with regional Administrations such as the Northern Ireland Assembly ? we will work on that with the devolved Administrations across the United Kingdom . good practice be happen across local government and regional government . we will ensure that everyone can learn from it , and we will deliver the big upgrade in a generation . great British Energy : Job Creation what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy on job creation . the energy transition present an incredible opportunity for job creation right across the UK , particularly in our industrial and coastal community . through great British Energy , we will build on Scotland ' s reputation as a world leader in energy and secure long - term , well - pay job in the industry of the future . I recently have the privilege of open an extension to the Kype Muir wind farm in my constituency . the extension alone will generate enough power for 53 , 000 home for 30 year . my constituency be also home to part of Whitelee , the large onshore wind farm in Europe . however , not one of those turbine be manufacture in the UK , let alone locally . what step be the Minister take to develop UK manufacturing capacity in that area ? I know well my hon . friend ' s constituency — it be next door to mine — and both wind farm she mention . she say quite rightly that , for all the expansion in those technology over recent year , very few of those job , particularly in manufacturing , have be in this country . we will do everything we can , through great British Energy and the clean industry bonus we have announce today , to grow our domestic supply chain , build industry in this country and win job for Britain . last week , just day after the Budget , Apache announce that it would exit the North sea by 2029 . it say : " the onerous financial impact of the energy profit levy … make production … beyond 2029 uneconomic . " what assessment have the Government make of the impact of those policy on current job in north - east Scotland , and how will great british Energy compensate for the loss of those job ? we be work with industry in the north - east of Scotland to ensure that this be a just and prosperous transition . we have announce our next step of respond to court judgment , and a consultation be open at the moment . we will have more to say about that in the month ahead . the hon . Lady must recognise that if she want to see investment from Great British Energy , she might actually have to support its creation in the first place . the Conservatives can not have it both way ; either they want a public energy company to invest in the job of the future — we don ' t . or they do not , as her right hon . friend have just confirm from the Back Benches . she can not have it both way . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Budget be a major step forward , pave the way for investment in clean , home - grow power , create job and deliver energy security . last week , the National Energy System Operator provide definitive evidence that our clean power mission be achievable and can give we great energy security and low energy cost . the Conservatives have spend the past year argue for a system that would keep the british people lock into energy insecurity and high cost . while they be lock in argument about the past , we be get on with deliver low bill , energy security and good job for the british people . the price cap rise , winter fuel payment cut , high standing charge and low temperature be all thing that my constituent in Edinburgh West — particularly my pensioner — be come to I with concern about . what be the Secretary of State planning to do to work with Ofgem and the energy company to come up with a fair set of circumstance for my constituent and other in similar situation ? we be look to bring down standing charge . the hon . Lady have mention a lot of case where people be struggle ; we appreciate that , and we be do what we can . the Budget set out how we be go to protect the most vulnerable people and ensure that people be support in the way they need to be . we have a lot to do after 14 year of Conservative Government ; we be try to unravel that and support people . our push for clean energy by 2030 will lead to low bill , and that be what we will be work on . follow on from the exciting announcement of the £ 1 billion investment in wind power , it would be remiss of I not to mention the severn estuary to the west of Weston - super - Mare , with its transformative potential for the generation of clean , renewable energy . the potential of domestic energy have be neglect for far too long in a world where global energy market and the cost of living be turbulent . do the Minister agree that the conservative party appear to have learn absolutely nothing during its time in office , preside over the bad cost of live crisis in generation and fail to act — order . topical question should be short and punchy . I be sure you be go to get to the end of your question any minute now . can I urge the Minister to go far and fast in deliver clean power for our community , which the NESO report so clearly state would lead to low bill and energy security ? my hon . friend be right ; there be good project right across the country that we hope to invest in in the lead - up to deliver in 2030 . the NESO report clearly set out that our aim be achievable . the conservative party want to continue have the argument of the past ; we be determined , with ambition , to deliver on the argument of the future . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Prime Minister be set to announce at the conference of the party that he be make the UK ' s already stringent carbon emission target even high . that be despite the fact that we contribute only 1 % of global emission , while the leader of the world ' s highest - emit country — make up over 60 % of emission — be not attend . the Climate Change Committee have say that this target will require , for example , an accelerated shift away from meat and dairy , less travel and a gas boiler ban for the british people , yet the Government ' s approach would see our reliance on import from China — which be 60 % power by coal — go through the roof . do the Minister agree that an approach that be ask for more sacrifice and hardship from the british people , in return for more good from one of the world ' s large carbon emitter , would mean few job in Britain and more carbon in the atmosphere ? too long . I think the shadow Secretary of State need to seek a debate if she want to elaborate on these issue . have attend COP last year as part of a cross - party delegation , I find it incredibly depressing to see the way the UK be receive . it be really important that we be step up and show global ambition . reach net zero in this country and get to clean power by 2030 be a massive opportunity , not a cost . some 824 former miner in Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy be rightly delighted that our Government have return over £ 1 billion from the mineworker ' pension scheme to those who power our country for decade . do the Minister have plan to deliver similar justice to the 290 member of the british coal staff superannuation scheme in my constituency and , indeed , all those affect across the UK ? I be proud that we have finally end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . miner across the country power our economy for decade , work in the tough environment ; they should not have have to fight for so long for a fair pension . I travel to Barnsley with the Secretary of State to meet former mineworker and talk about the difference that the Labour Government have make . of course , we will look at any suggestion that the BCSSS come forward with . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the US President - elect , Donald Trump , have repeatedly call climate change " a hoax " . I share the concern of young people in South Cambridgeshire that these view represent a threat to our effort to tackle climate change . the global community be meet right now at the international climate summit in Azerbaijan — COP29 . do the Minister believe and share with I the view that the UK must rebuild its leadership by get back on track with our climate and nature target ? I agree that it be now more important than ever that the UK show global leadership , and that be exactly what the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and the Energy Secretary be do with their presence at COP today — I will be head out there tomorrow . I be very keen to work with the hon . Lady cross - party on these issue . work with young people be very important as well . I be proud that exeter be already a global leader in climate research . do the Minister agree that this Government ' s mission on clean power will deliver low bill , energy security and allow this country to enter COP29 as a world leader when it come to climate action ? as I have say , show domestic leadership give we the credibility to show international leadership too . we will be do both . forest in North America be be chop down to supply wood to burn at Drax power station , at a cost of £ 2 million a day in subsidy , while pensioner will perish this winter . do the Minister agree that it be time to end this net zero madness and admit that fossil fuel be " a gift of the God ? " it perhaps will not surprise the hon . Gentleman or the House that I be not go to agree with his final point . net zero be incredibly important to deliver climate leadership , low bill and the job of the future . but on biomass , we rightly expect full compliance with all regulatory obligation on biomass , and consumer rightly recognise the high standard of accountability from generator . in my constituency there be nearly 1 , 500 member of the mineworker ' pension scheme . I congratulate my hon . friend the Minister on the superb decision make in the Budget to return the investment of the reserve to they . I understand that this will mean a 32 % rise in their weekly pension . can the Minister confirm that this be correct ? that be correct . it will mean , on average , an extra £ 29 a week , put right a wrong that have persist for far too long . although the money be important and a key part of it , we have do the right thing — and about time too . some 112 , 000 member across the country will benefit . thank you , Mr Speaker , for permit I to raise this important constituency matter from the Back Benches . on 2 July this year , during the installation of a ground source heat pump in a constituent ' s back garden , a gas field be strike and gas be release . on 19 October there be an explosion , which result in the death of two of my constituent and the continue evacuation of 50 household . matter relate to the period between 2 July and 19 October be subject to investigation . I be advise that this be the first such instance of gas be encounter , but give that ground source heat pump be expect to play a significant role in decarbonise home heating , will the Minister undertake to review the regulation cover the installation of ground source heat pump , and will she arrange a meeting for I with the relevant Minister to discuss these matter far ? I be sorry to hear about the incident that the hon . Gentleman have raise . we absolutely need to ensure , as we roll out all low - carbon technology , that standard be at the high level . I undertake to meet he to understand the specific circumstance and see what we can do in term of review regulation . the joint European Torus fusion experiment in Oxfordshire have be deliver fantastic scientific result , stand at the forefront of UK science and the fusion experiment internationally . as JET begin to be decommission as we move forward to our next large experiment in bassetlaw , can the Minister comment on how we will retain all the excellent science expertise that have be build up in jet over the past decade ? I get to see the JET project when I visit Culham . there be huge potential for a cluster there . many more company be be attract to that sector . my hon . friend be right that we need to maximise the skill that be there , but I be confident , have speak to company that have be attract to Culham , and have speak to international company too , that we will continue to do so . many home in my constituency be off grid , which mean that their owner have to fill up the tank at the beginning of winter to keep warm . the pensioner who have lose the winter fuel payment be struggle with that up - front amount . will the Minister review the level at which the winter fuel payment be remove , because the most vulnerable be struggle ? we be do everything we can to help the household that will struggle with bill this winter . we have have a big push to increase the uptake of pension credit and we be work with energy supplier to provide additional support this winter , alongside our warm home discount , which will provide a rebate of £ 150 to household in fuel poverty . we have also extend the household support fund . I have work for many year with London School of Economics academic and UK resident Dr Gubad Ibadoghlu , who have be arbitrarily detain in Azerbaijan since July 2023 for uncover corruption in the fossil fuel industry , despite a severe medical condition . during COP29 , will minister meet their Azerbaijani counterpart to urge they to drop the charge and to release he ? I understand that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Minister have raise the case with the Azerbaijani Foreign Minister and urge allow Dr Ibadoghlu to travel overseas for specialist medical care if require . we will continue to use our diplomatic channel to raise our concern about the protection of freedom and human right in Azerbaijan , include for my hon . friend ' s constituent . conservative Members will never stop hold the Government to account for their pre - election promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 . have civil service official conduct any modelling whatsoever that can legitimise that figure ? we arrive at the figure through independent analysis . we stand by the reality that the only way to bring down bill be to commit to our 2030 target . the National Energy System Operator back that , but the conservative party fail to support that action . the hon . Member therefore must explain what the conservative plan be for reduce bill for people who be pay more than they have ever pay . my constituent understand that tackle the climate crisis and get low bill go hand in hand , and they be excited about great british Energy . will GBE invest in community energy project in place such as Macclesfield ? my hon . friend be right to make a point about community energy . the local power plan that we be commit to will deliver community energy project throughout Great Britain . I be sure that Macclesfield have some fantastic project that great British Energy will look at . we want to unleash the potential of community energy across the country . National Grid ' s rationale for rebuild East Claydon substation be base on speculative application , not consent real scheme . will the Minister therefore meet I to find a way to get National Grid more ground in reality rather than speculation ? I be happy to look at specific case , but the Secretary of State ' s role as final decision maker on some planning application mean that I can not comment on they . however , generally speak , the hon . Member make an important point about look at how we plan project holistically throughout the country . that be why we have announce the first ever spatial energy plan for the whole of Great Britain . the devastating scene of flooding in Spain remind we all of why urgent investment be need to deal with the deadly consequence of climate change . do the Minister agree that that investment should be pay for by the pollute company that have cause the climate crisis ? we hope that , at COP29 in the come week , we can settle on a figure for a new ambitious goal , which will not just bring in finance from donor country , but mobilise private sector finance . we will use all the mechanism we can to ensure that we get money to develop country as quickly as possible . as my hon . Friend say , it be more urgent than ever to act . order . I have get to get all member in , and Ministers have get to help I and work with I . Bolney and Twineham parishe in my constituency host the Rampion windfarm substation , which lead to several battery energy storage solution application . what reassurance can the Minister give my constituent about the adequacy of the regulatory framework ? battery will play an important role in our energy mix in the short duration storage that we need . we will continue to look at whether the regulatory arrangement be sufficient . obviously , we want all the application to be for safe project . the regulation be in place to ensure that . if we need to do any more work , we will happily look at that . we have a very successful all - party group meeting last week on float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . I know the Minister be supportive and ask he to consider mechanism such as ringfencing contract for difference and investment in port to kickstart the investment in the Celtic sea . my hon . friend be right to raise the important potential of the Celtic sea in our green energy transition . I will be in Wales tomorrow to speak at a green energy conference on exactly that question . there be huge potential in float offshore wind . we want to bring the manufacture job in the supply chain to this country as well , which be why we launch today our clean industry bonus to bring that investment here to build the factory of the future and deliver the good , clean job of the future . the wind industry have rightly agree a standard compensation package for rural community with big wind plant . the solar industry , however , be , unsurprisingly , busy whitewash uyghur slave labour in its supply chain rather than do that . if it will not act , will the Government step forward and recognise that they must support rural community by create a standardised compensation programme ? the hon . Lady have pursue this and several other issue to do with the solar industry for a long time . we be currently look at all the option , particularly around community benefit , to ensure that they be at a scale — follow on from the previous Government ' s consultation on whether they should be compulsory — that genuinely benefit community . my constituent Konnie Huq , with Arts Council and Lottery funding , have compile a kid ' climate guide , with Jamie Oliver among the contributor . will Ministers join force with she to get it out there , preferably to every school in the country , because we have get to start young ? I would be more than happy to meet with my hon . friend and her constituent , who sound rather familiar , to discuss what more we can do to support climate education among child , include in our school . I meet with National Grid yesterday and communicate my concern about the Norwich to Tilbury line but we remain constructive and talk about community benefit scheme . unfortunately , it tell I that the Government be drag their foot on define community benefit scheme . can the Minister update the House on when they will bring forward guidance , and can he promise that a community benefit scheme be a real , positive economic benefit for my resident who be impact by the pylon ? clearly I can not speak for National Grid but I can speak for this Government and in four month we have move as quickly as possible on what a community benefit scheme will look like for network infrastructure as well as for generation project . the conservative party have 14 year to put in place a different scheme and do not ; in four month we be move as quickly as we can . as minister know , the european powerhouse of critical mineral be Cornwall , include its vast quantity of lithium , essential for our transition away from fossil fuel . will the Ministers agree with the industry ' s call for a target of 50 , 000 tonne of lithium ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and look forward to meet he shortly to talk about tin among other thing . we be look at our critical mineral strategy ; there be a big role to play in his neck of the wood for lithium and tin , and we will be push that as hard as we can . ahead of the general election the Labour party be warn that its plan for the North sea in Scotland would lead to up to 100 , 000 scottish job loss . last week this become a reality when the US oil firm Apache say that it would end all its operation in the North sea by the end of 2029 , cite this UK Government ' s Budget and tax regime . can the Minister explain why this UK Government see the job and livelihood of oil and gas worker in the north - east of Scotland as expendable ? I do not believe that at all . this Government be commit to a just and prosperous transition . the reality be that 100 , 000 job have be lose in the oil and gas industry in the past 10 year . if we do not recognise that there be a transition under way and put in place the measure to produce the job of the future , we will have more loss . the party that the hon . member represent could have do something about that by support Great British Energy headquarters in Aberdeen but he fail to show up and vote for it . I declare an interest as a chair of the all - party parliamentary group for critical mineral . domestic supply of copper and , of course , cornish tin be critical to the UK ' s energy security . what consideration have the Minister give to ensure that copper and tin be recognise as critical mineral ? the process in term of what be on the list of critical mineral be independent , but I have a strong interest , as do my hon . friend , in ensure that we produce as many critical mineral here as we can and that the supply chain around the world be work for we . I be look at a critical mineral strategy , which will come forward in due course . point of Order 12 . 39 pm on a point of order , Mr Speaker . minister have repeatedly say today that the NESO report show that their plan will lower energy bill , but page 78 of the report make it clear that no such thing will happen . if minister read their own report and realise that they have mislead the House , would it be appropriate for they to come back and apologise ? I be not responsible for Ministers ' answer , but I be sure Ministers will have hear that point of order , and if they wish to correct the record , they can do so . Social Security Advisory Committee : Winter Fuel Payment ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions when she plan to respond to the Social Security Advisory Committee ' s letter , publish on 17 October 2024 , on the means - testing of winter fuel payment . we welcome the letter from the chair of the Social Security Advisory Committee . we be hope to respond to the letter on the day of the Budget . regrettably , there have be an unexpected further delay , and we be due to issue the response this week . however , my official meet the committee in August to discuss the regulation , prior to the committee ' s formal scrutiny in early September . I want to explain briefly why it be important to invoke the urgency procedure in this case . we need to make the necessary Exchequer saving in the current financial year , as the regulation need to come into force on 16 September . the previous Government leave we with a £ 22 billion black hole , with Treasury reserve spend three time over . the day - to - day departmental spending set out by the previous Government in their spring Budget be not even close to reality . it be now up to we to clear up the mess of the previous Government , so we have to take some difficult decision , such as mean - test the winter fuel payment , but we remain determined to do everything possible to support the poor pensioner . we have take immediate action to increase the take - up of pension credit , work with charity and local authority and through a campaign in print and broadcast medium . the Government have write to more than 12 million pensioner about the change to means - test the winter fuel payment . we have also write to 120 , 000 pensioner on housing benefit , who could be entitle to pension credit , to encourage they to claim . we have extend the household support fund until March 2026 . thank to our steadfast commitment to the triple lock , more than 12 million pensioner will see their state pension rise by up to £ 470 next year , and up to £ 1 , 900 over the course of this Parliament . the warm home discount , which we hear about a minute ago , be worth £ 150 off energy bill for low - income household . the warm home plan will in the long term insulate 5 million more home . by take these difficult decision , we be able to provide a cash injection of £ 22 . 6 billion to the NHS budget , which be the large real - term growth in day - to - day nhs spending — outside of covid — since 2010 . that will bring down waiting time for people across the country , include many pensioner . we be take the responsible and difficult decision to clear up the mess of the previous Government , to fix the foundation of our economy and rebuild our public service . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . this Government make a choice to take away the winter fuel payment from 10 million pensioner this winter and to rely on the notoriously under - claim pension credit as a system of means - test it . that choice will make life hard for pensioner across the country . it will see 750 , 000 of the poor pensioner miss out on much - need help with the cost of heating , and accord to the Labour party ' s own research , it could lead to 4 , 000 additional death this winter . the Government know that . that be why they have not do an impact assessment . perhaps it be why , after seven week , they still have not respond to the concern of their own advisory committee . the committee write the Secretary of State a letter contain its concern about how the policy will affect the poor people . it say that 70 % of disabled pensioner will miss out on their payment this winter , and it suggest expand the eligibility for winter fuel payment beyond pension credit because the committee know that the Government ' s saving be base on a third of the poor pensioner miss out . in direct contrast to the Government , the committee say that " a more detailed assessment be urgently require " , as colleague from all part of the House — include Labour Members — charity and pensioner group across the country have also say . here we be , seven week later , and the Secretary of State be yet to even respond to the advisory committee . in fact , she be not even here to answer this urgent question . I ask the Minister : will the Government now , after seven week , respond to their own advisory committee ? will they now , after seven week , publish a full impact assessment for everyone to see ? do she accept that her Government have get this wrong ? do she recognise that they have negligently underestimate how many people will fall through the crack ? I suspect that deep down she be worried , as I be , about pensioner who can not afford to heat their home . I be sure her Secretary of State have be lobby the Chancellor behind the scene — perhaps that be where she be right now , instead of be here . will the hon . Lady go back to her Chancellor one more time and try to make she think again ? I do apologise for the delay in respond to the committee ' s letter ; it be regrettable . the initial delay , as I set out , be because we be wait for the OBR to come forward with its costing of the policy . then there be another , unexpected delay . there have be a delay — [ interruption . ] I do not know why I be be heckled ; I be try calmly to explain why there have be a delay , for which I do apologise . we will issue a response very shortly , and certainly by the end of the week . it be important that we respond to that letter . I respect that the hon . Lady be ask that question . regard the public sector equality duty , we have do everything in line with the duty , which be to provide an equality analysis of the decision that we have take . as hon . member will know , that analysis be publish in September . however — I say this gently — after the election we find ourselves in a situation of have a £ 22 billion black hole , with Treasury reserve spend three time over . the OBR have say that its assessment of the previous Government ' s Budget would have be materially different have it know the pressure on spending and the real situation in the Treasury . I note that the hon . Lady do not come with an apology . we have have to take the decision to mean - test winter fuel payment . we do not want to do that , but we have have to take some difficult decision to clear up the mess , to tackle our fiscal inheritance and to start rebuild our public service , which pensioner across the country and many other rely on . Government Members will obviously not take protestation about poverty from the Conservative party with anything other than a mountain of salt . but the Government spend £ 1 , 300 billion per year and the cut to winter fuel allowance will save the Government about £ 1 . 4 billion per year , so that cut will save about 0 . 1 % of government spending . on that basis , as we look at all the welcome advance make in the Labour Budget — all the great stuff that we can talk about — and we consider that this measure save only 0 . 1 % of Government spending , I really urge the Minister to think again . I think the public would welcome that as a sign of real leadership . not anyone or any Government always get it right , and I believe we get it wrong on this occasion . could the Government rethink on this issue ? I be proud of the last Labour Government ' s record of lift over a million pensioner out of poverty . we do expect to make saving of about £ 1 . 4 billion this year through means - test the winter fuel payment . that be not an insignificant proportion of the £ 5 . 5 billion of saving that the Chancellor set out on 29 July . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . many of we in the Chamber accept that the new Government inherit a financial mess from the old Government . it be a pity that that be be balance on the back of pensioner . the Minister quite rightly highlight how many of we have be champion our resident to claim pension credit , as I be in Torbay . she talk of unexpected delay . many of we , include her own Department , face unexpected delay . in the light of that , will she extend the deadline for pensioner to claim the allowance beyond 21 December ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . I be afraid that I can not commit to extend the deadline . it be important that we encourage as many pensioner as possible — I know that he be work on that in his constituency , and I do a pension credit surgery in my constituency last week — to check whether they be eligible for pension credit . we have 160 local authority up and down the country help we to check the eligibility of those in need and those on the low income . that be the right thing to do . those claim can be backdate by three month , and anyone who be eligible for pension credit in the qualifying week will also be passporte to other benefit , such as the winter fuel payment . the advisory committee make several recommendation relate to get assistance to people who should be in receipt of pension credit . could the Minister indicate whether the Government intend to accept those recommendation ? we be deploy an additional 500 staff to deal with the substantial increase — over 150 % — in claim . that be the right thing to do . it be an operational focus for the Department to get through those claim as quickly as possible , to make sure that we get the help to those most in need . the Social Security Advisory Committee estimate that more than 70 % of people with a disability will lose their winter fuel payment this year . do the hon . Lady really think that cut benefit from this vulnerable group of pensioner be the right thing to do ? if the hon . Lady look at the equality analysis , she will see that those with a disability will be disproportionately likely to retain the winter fuel payment . I urge she to have a look at that . I thank my hon . friend for her response to the urgent question . we have a Budget that do so much good for our country in the face of the most dreadful inheritance , and the Labour Government should be congratulate on that . but pensioner in Middlesbrough and Thornaby East be still look to the Government to far mitigate the impact of the cut to the winter fuel payment . much have be do by the elect Mayor Chris Cooke to embrace the issue around the household support fund and so on , but the Social Security Advisory Committee note that the £ 1 . 4 billion be base on an increase of only 5 % in pension credit take - up , from 63 % to 68 % . could the Minister say what the increase in take - up have be to date , and what further step she will take to provide yet further mitigation and reduce pensioner poverty ? we will announce new statistic at the end of this month . the committee ask about the 5 % increase ; that assumption be base on what happen when the previous Government take away free tv licence and people have to apply for they . the OBR accept our assumption . what be the point of have a Social Security Advisory Committee if the Government do not listen to and take its advice ? would it not be well to abolish the committee if the Government be intent on ignore it ? no . I be reassure by the Minister ' s response that we will soon see a reply to that letter . my constituent be not fool — they can see that while opposition party oppose the cut , they be not propose how they would fund the payment . my constituent also see the desperate lack of people claim pension credit . I put on the record my thank to Age Scotland for its guidance to my staff on how to ensure that more people in my constituency claim it . the letter refer to winter fuel payment claimant in England , Wales , the EU , Switzerland , Iceland , Lichtenstein and Norway , but not Scotland . be that because in Scotland , the Scottish Government have the power both to maintain the winter fuel payment and to fully fund it ? yes , as I understand it that be in the Scottish Government ' s gift . have the Minister have the chance to visit the DWP library , and have she make a note of how many drive there have be over the year to take up pension credit , and whether any of they ever reach as high even as three quarter of those who be eligible ? the previous Government promise 13 year ago to merge housing benefit with pension credit , which would be a significant advance towards improvement . we be introduce that in January . we will have be in power for only six month , but we will have do more than the previous Government do in 14 year . many pensioner be terrify of go into debt and do not want to switch on their heating in case they end up with massive bill . temperature will drop below freezing in Scotland at the beginning of next week , so will the Minister apologise to those pensioner across Scotland who will not be able to put the heating on because they fear go into debt ? I urge the hon . Lady to look at the support available to low income household through the warm home discount scheme , the extension of the household support fund and our commitment to the triple lock , which will ensure that 12 million pensioner see a rise in their pension of up to £ 470 next year , and £ 1 , 900 over the course of this Parliament . in the long term , I urge she to look at the detail of the warm home plan , which will transform home across the country by make they clean and cheap to heat . on 19 September , the Minister ' s Department tell I in response to a write question that 48 , 351 people in my constituency have be eligible for winter fuel payment . while we be proud to offer forever home to so many pensioner , that be a preposterous figure , relate to a heartless and unnecessary decision that will cost more in the long term . how do I or any of my resident have confidence in what the Government be do , since they believe that more than half my constituency be make up pensioner , and can not even get the basic number right ? I quote one of the hon . Lady ' s fellow politician : " I have people in my constituency tell I that they don ' t need the winter fuel payment that we give they because they can afford it . " those be the word of the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) . the Social Security Advisory Committee ' s letter call for an urgent amendment to allow those in receipt of pensioner housing benefit to receive the winter fuel payment this year . I believe the UK Government should go far , extend eligibility to people on council tax support , attendance allowance , disability living allowance , personal independent payment and carer ' s allowance . will the UK Government rethink their position on eligibility and reduce pensioner hardship this winter ? the hon . Lady ' s question allow I to focus on the communication around this change . it be not just about pension credit , but about people on work tax credit , child tax credit and other benefit . the committee be concern about pensioner in receipt of child tax credit ; pensioner should check whether they be eligible for other qualifying benefit for winter fuel payment , because it be quite a complicated system . it be not just about whether someone be already on pension credit . the Government say that they want everyone who be eligible for pension credit to claim it and get it , but as the Social Security Advisory Committee point out , they expect only a 5 % increase in uptake . be the reality not that the Government need hundred of thousand of pensioner not to claim this entitlement that they deserve , in order to make their figure add up and to cut £ 1 . 4 billion from winter fuel payment ? I would be very pleased if all pensioner who be eligible for pension credit apply and receive the help that they deserve . the Minister will be aware that billion of pound in benefit and financial help , include pension credit , go unclaimed every year due to the stigma associate with claim benefit , and the huge difficulty that claimant encounter when navigate the system . what measure be the Government take to encourage great take - up and to simplify the benefit system ? we have run several campaign , the late of which be launch recently on radio and tv and in print medium , to urge those who may be eligible to apply , and to urge their love one to encourage they and help they to apply . we have also ask official to see how we can improve the form to make it easy , but more than 90 % of claim be now make online . pensioner can get help either from a love one or from charity and local authority , which be help to ensure that they get the support that they deserve . some 16 , 600 pensioner in Broxbourne will lose their winter fuel payment . how be the Minister help those who can not do online application for pension credit to make an application ? will she commit to continue to write to all those who will lose their winter fuel payment until they sign up for pension credit ? we have write to all pensioner to tell they about the change in Government policy to ensure that those who be not in receipt of pension credit or other benefit know that they will not be get the winter fuel payment this winter . Minister , it be always good to have the necessary answer . the report note saving of £ 1 . 5 billion . the increase in pension credit take - up from 63 % to 68 % represent an additional 100 , 000 household . any take - up negate saving make by the Government . the fact be that pensioner who would qualify have lose out this year and be struggle now . what can be do to expedite their application and to deal with the long waiting list for decision , which mean that , for many , the potential for additional income to ease their situation and help in the winter month will be too little , too late ? the reason I make the point be that the system be take too long to make a decision and those people need the money right now . as I say , we have redeploy an additional 500 member of staff to process application for pension credit and we be mostly hit the target for processing time . National Youth Strategy with permission , Mr Speaker , I will now make a statement on our new national youth strategy . the challenge face young people today be profound : they live through a pandemic during which they be deny the chance to test boundary and gain confidence ; they be at the sharp end of a revolution in social medium ; the pressure on young girl be significant ; the effect of antisocial behaviour and violence be stark ; and while talent be everywhere , opportunity be not . despite that , this generation be as ambitious for themselves , their family and their community as any other before they , and they deserve a Government with a plan to match . when I become Secretary of State , I be shocked to find that there be no single strategy in place for young people . I be absolutely determined to put that right . this be personal for I : one of my first job be at the youth homelessness charity , Centrepoint . I learn everything I know about politic from those brilliant young people , who understand the challenge they face well than any Government could . that be why today we be kick off one of the big national conversation the Government have ever hold with young people — lead by , and for , young people . as we embark on an ambitious plan to devolve power to local leader and community , we be determined to champion that change not just at national level , but in every part of government . we will take this conversation to our town , village and city in every region on their term , not ours , to allow young people to challenge we every step of the way . they will be in the drive seat . we will make sure young people be empower at local , regional and national level , so that funding flow to the thing that matter to they . in the come month , these conversation will feed into a report , " today ' s Youth , Tomorrow ' s Nation " , detail young people ' s priority to inform our new approach . next year , we will present to this House a co - produce national youth strategy that be fit for the decade ahead and ensure every young person can live the rich , large life they deserve . we disagree on many thing in this House , but I believe every single one of we share a common desire to see this generation thrive . they deserve politician who respect what they have to contribute . that be what this Government be go to do , and that begin today . in line with this new approach , I have to tell the House that we be go to wind down the National Citizen Service programme from the end of the financial year , and the National Citizen Service Trust when parliamentary time allow . since its launch in 2011 , the NCS have provide over 1 million young people with opportunity . the NCS meet the need of the moment and rightly put active citizenship at the heart of the Government ' s programme for young people . it have play a hugely important role in support young people to build their confidence and bridge social divide . I would like to thank each and every staff member past and present , the NCS board , and the previous and current ceo and chair . I also thank every young person who have contribute to the success of the NCS . in 2011 , when the National Citizen Service be establish , Facebook and X have only 700 million user . now , they have over 3 billion . tiktok have not even be dream of . in 2011 , an estimate one in eight 10 to 15 - year - old have a probable mental health problem . now , it be one in five . the world have change and we need a youth strategy that reflect that . this be not a decision we take lightly . I have speak to the chair and chief executive . I be so grateful to they for their commitment to work closely together to protect young people and staff , to share learning and expertise , and to ensure there be an orderly transition from the end of the NCS programme to what come next . I be delighted to announce that the current NCS chair , Harris Bokhari , will be an adviser on the national youth strategy . his experience will be invaluable as we step into a new way of work together with the country ' s young people . as part of this , I would also like to thank the NCS youth advisory board . I hope it will play a major role in our strategy . it be commit , as we be , to build a country of connected , confident and care young citizen . we will work closely with the whole youth sector to transform our work so that it well support youth worker . local authority ' youth funding fall by 73 % under the previous Government and we know that this present a significant challenge . despite the disastrous economic situation we inherit , I be determined that we will rise to this moment . for so many young people , it be council and combined authority who hold the key to unlock their potential . to facilitate they , I will be launch a local youth transformation pilot in the next financial year to support local authority to build back lose capability and provide tool , guidance and funding to improve their youth offer and empower young people in every community . I have also decide to increase the total funding for other Department for Culture , Media and Sport youth programme to ensure that young people can continue to access opportunity , no matter where they be from . we recognise the urgent need for young people to have welcome place that they have a stake in . that be why , in the next financial year , my Department will allocate over £ 85 million of capital funding to place where it be most need . that include launch the new well youth space fund , with at least £ 26 million for youth club to buy new equipment and do renovation . we will also complete the youth investment fund project that be under way . true to our commitment to put young people back in charge of their own destiny , we will ensure that they guide our decision when we choose the space to support . we know that building be worth nothing without the army of trust adult dedicate to help young people to thrive . as we develop the youth strategy , I will continue to ensure we be recruit and train the youth worker who be a lifeline for young people . from the initial youth guarantee area , which will help young people into employment or training , to the first young future hub and local prevention partnership , this Government be commit to break down barrier to opportunity . we be also expand the creative career programme to widen access to creative employer across the country , and we have commit to continue investment in multi - sport facility . in addition to that funding , I be announce that youth , financial inclusion , social investment and community wealth fund will each receive a significant portion of the next £ 350 million of dormant asset funding . I be pleased to tell the House that , of that , £ 100 million will be dedicate to youth outcome between 2024 and 2028 . there will be more detail to come when we publish our dormant asset strategy . throughout history , the programme that have make the great difference have be the one that meet the challenge of the moment and be build to last : the Children Act 1989 , deliver by a Conservative Government , enshrine it in law that the good interest of the child take priority above all else ; and the last Labour Government ' s every child Matters programme put child ' s view and need at the heart of a government that change life everywhere . I look forward to work constructively with member across the political divide to get this right . together , we will grip these challenge to give young people chance and choice , put they at the heart of government and unlock the potential of a generation . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . let I begin by say that the opposition really do welcome any focus that the Government be put on young people . I recall from my time in the Department that spend time in the youth sector provide some of the most inspiring moment of my time as a Minister . in government , we have a proud record of listen to young people and put their view at the heart of our agenda , and our record show that . indeed , I always ensure that young people be around the table when we be make decision that would affect they , and would often say that I wonder how a middle - aged , grey - haired man could know exactly what young people want . it be because we listen to young people that we allocate £ 500 million over the next three year to fund the national youth guarantee , ensure that every young person age 11 to 18 in England have access to regular club and activity , something to do after school , experience away from home , and opportunity to volunteer . that be what young people tell we they want . as part of the national youth guarantee , we allocate £ 300 million to youth facility , improve and develop 300 of they . we welcome the Government ' s commitment to the youth investment fund project that be under way , but will the Secretary of State confirm the fate of those that be not ? in government , we deliver £ 1 . 3 billion - worth of sport programme , develop and improve sport pitch across the country . can she confirm that they will still be invest in , give their importance as a resource for young people ? of course , the importance that we place on young people go much far . whether the issue be housing , the national living wage , education or apprenticeship , we listen to their view at the very top of Government . that be why we welcome some of the measure in the statement , such as the focus that the Government will place on youth worker through the local youth transformation pilot . the relationship between youth worker and young people be one of the most important , especially for young people with challenging background . one element that we can not support , however , be the scrapping of the National Citizen Service . the NCS have grow since 2011 , when it first support 158 participant . over the last 13 year , more than 750 , 000 young people have take part in its programme . I have the pleasure of visit many of they , and what strike I most be the sight of people from a mix of different background come together . it be a great scheme which have cross - party support . if the Government intend to listen to young people , can the Secretary of State explain why it be scrap a scheme with which 93 % of participant be satisfied ? she say that we do not need citizenship because of social medium , but I would argue that we probably do . the cancellation of the NCS also mean that a hole will develop in youth service be deliver in 2025 , so can the Secretary of State tell I what immediate action will be take to prevent it from develop , and how she intend to spend the £ 50 million of saving that she have announce — or be that a loss to the sector ? the NCS be not the only scheme that be be scrap . I do not need to remind the House of the importance of cadet both to their community and to young people , especially follow the remembrance service that take place yesterday and over the weekend . it be a great shame that the Government have cut grant funding for cadet , and I hope the Secretary of State will reconsider that . as for the issue of dormant asset , this be money that we announce in government , but may I ask how quickly that funding will be in the hand of those who need it ? give young people the good start in life be something about which I — and , I know , many other member — care passionately . I assure the Secretary of State that we will work constructively with she when we see opportunity to improve service , but we will also challenge it when we think that she have make the wrong decision . I be sorry to say that , in my view , the cancellation of the National Citizen Service be the wrong choice . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his constructive challenge . I welcome he to his place , and I look forward to more of this in the come month and year . the right hon . Gentleman ask about grassroots sport funding and the facility that we make available around the country . he will have note that over the summer I announce that the Government would invest in that significantly , and that we provide further detail follow the Euros — where a whole generation be inspire , not just by the man ' s team but by the incredible success of the Lionesses , and many other sport besides . we know how important this be . we have make a commitment to ensure that that funding match the demand that be be place on we by young people in particular . as for the importance of youth worker , I could not agree more with the right hon . Gentleman . I do not want to get into an arm race about who care more about this issue , but the truth be where the last Government leave we a good inheritance , we will acknowledge it , support it , and ensure that it continue . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will rightly agree that the challenge face young people be far too important for we to play party politic with they . I hope that young people will recognise from this exchange that they have a group of parliamentarian who be determined to work together to get this right , and who will challenge one another when they think they be not do so . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the £ 50 million cost of NCS . we be work with the NCS Trust to ensure that we manage the closure in an orderly fashion , and that all associate cost be meet . the Department be currently engage in a business planning process . however , he will have hear what I have say in the House previously and what I will continue to say to colleague today : we recognise the funding challenge that affect the entire youth sector . the series of announcement that I have make today , include the announcement about dormant asset funding , be intend to ensure that we start to put rocket booster behind young people . the right hon . Gentleman ask about other youth organisation , and in particular about uniformed youth . we do intend to increase funding for some of those organisation , especially those that have receive funding previously through the National Citizen Service , to ensure that no gap be leave that would prevent they from be able to honour the commitment that they make to young people . as for the general question — why the NCS ? — I want to impress on the right hon . Gentleman that we be strong supporter of the dedicated programme for young people that be establish by the Cameron Government . I be also a strong supporter of vInspired , which precede it , but the incoming Government at the time decide that they want to move with the time and want to change the programme . what we have learn from that episode be that an orderly transition be very important . with vInspired the funding be cut but the programme continue , and it finally close in 2018 with more than half a million pound of debt . we be determined not to allow that to happen again , which be why we be work closely with the NCS Trust and other to make sure we do this properly . however , I have a responsibility to million of young people around the country , and I think it only right to say that the system be far too fragmented , and not align with their priority . I make no apology for put they back at the centre of government , where they belong . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to bring youth service together , and we in the all - party parliamentary group on youth affair , which I chair , look forward to play our part . however , owe to the 73 % reduction in youth service at a local level , local group such as Croydon Youth Consortium in my constituency have have to step up where local government have step back . will the Secretary of State ensure that the Government will leverage , rather than work against , the good practice that those group have establish by work together and not compete against each other for certain type of funding ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s commitment to young people , which be know about before her election . I have deliberately place an emphasis on what happen at local and regional level . as this government seek to embark on the big devolution of power out of Westminster and Whitehall in a generation , we must ensure that young people be empower to play their full part , not just with national Government but with local and regional government as well . we announce funding for the local youth transformation fund to help local authority learn from the good practice in this area . I be also very committed — as be the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) — to ensure that we be in town , village and city across the UK , listen to the experience of young people who face very different challenge in their life depend on where they be from , but who have also find extremely innovative solution . I look forward to work with my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) and other colleague to make good that commitment . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome today ' s announcement . a national youth strategy can finally bring the join - up thinking that be need to deliver the outcome that our young people deserve . on the point about put rocket booster behind young people , those kind of high - octane opportunity be not available at the youth club that I attend , but it sound like an innovative form of youth work . I have see the result that can be achieve by youth work when an effective approach be take . one success story be that of Cheltenham Festivals , which support ten of thousand of young people in the art and culture every year . I know that the Secretary of State learn more when Cheltenham Festivals recently visit Downing Street and she get to meet Supertato — one of her hero . what role be there for organisation such as Cheltenham Festivals as part of the strategy ? do the Secretary of State agree that in order to deliver long - term , join - up strategic thinking , now be the time for a Cabinet Minister for child and young people , as call for by the Liberal Democrats ? will whatever follow the NCS continue to report to her Department or another — perhaps the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , if local council be to have a broad role ? the scale of the mental health crisis among young people in this country give we pause for thought every day . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to commit that this Government will deliver a dedicated mental health professional in every primary and secondary school ? the physical health of our child and young people be also in urgent need of support as we seek to fight childhood obesity . will the Secretary of State ' s announcement on dormant asset funding bring any benefit in the area of sport and physical activity ? it be indeed a pleasure to meet Supertato at the recent reception that we host in Downing Street . I know Mr Speaker get the reference , but I be not sure that anybody else do — Supertato be a legend . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s emphasis on Cheltenham Festivals , and on art and culture . we think that every child and young person in this country have the right to a rich , large life , and he will have see that one of the first thing that the Education Secretary and I announce be a review of the curriculum in order to put art , creativity , sport and music back at its heart . for too many young people , the experience of the last decade and a half have be of art , culture and sport disappear not just from their classroom but from their community , and we be determined to set that right . the hon . Gentleman ask I a specific question about have a Cabinet Minister for child and young people . I be pleased to tell he that we have one — he be know as the Prime Minister . have work for the Children ' s Society and Centrepoint when the last Labour Government be in office , my learning in this area be that although it be a great innovation to have a Department for Children , Schools and Families , the every child Matters programme be able to succeed only because there be a strong direction from the Prime Minister that every single Cabinet Minister have to play their part . I hope that the hon . Gentleman can see that , through the work we be announce today , we be absolutely determined to ensure that . I declare an interest : for nearly 20 year , I have be the chair of trustee at the Samuel Montagu youth club in my constituency , and I have also be a senior play leader on an adventure playground and a youth worker . the funding that my right hon . friend have announce today will be welcome by the youth work sector , particularly the £ 85 million of overdue capital and the £ 26 million for youth club , but may I make an appeal to she ? I have be down this road many time before with Government funding , and the burden of bureaucracy when apply for money can sometimes exclude small organisation that just do not have the capacity . can we make it simple for people to apply for the money ? I look forward to visit an adventure playground with my hon . friend sometime soon . I could not agree with he more , and he be absolutely right to flag this issue to I . we be keen to make the interface between young people , youth organisation and the Government as painless as possible , particularly to ensure that we support local grassroots organisation that be achieve absolute magic with young people . we be work with the devolved Administrations , the Local Government Association , mayor , council and other to get it right , but I would be very pleased to discuss this issue with my hon . friend at a time that be mutually convenient , to make sure that we do . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . she be right to focus on this issue , and there be a lot of positive here . if I have any concern , they be around the speed of the closure of the National Citizen Service and not know what will replace it . that could lead to gap in provision , but also to some of the skilled and dedicated youth worker on whom we rely leave the workforce . she speak about an orderly transition , and she be absolutely right do so . I have a few of question for she . what be the estimate cost of wind down the NCS ? would it be possible for it to continue without public funding if it be able to get access to private finance ? how long do she estimate that it will take before money for either exist or new youth project become available , and when do she think they could be up and run ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . our intention be to close the NCS , but we must go through all the necessary step , include engagement with his Majesty the King , as require , and with Parliament . she will know that it will take some time to pass the necessary legislation , but our intention be to honour the exist funding round until March 2025 . the hon . Lady ask about the cost of wind down NCS . we have do some provisional work on that , but we be work closely with the NCS board and trust to make sure that we fully understand the implication of those cost and that we do this in the most cost - effective way , with value for money . she also ask whether it would be possible to continue with the NCS , but without Government funding . we be very much mark by the experience of the last Government and the closure of vInspired . without a forward - look and viable business plan , we be concerned that we would end up repeat the mistake make under the last government . as I say to the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , vInspired eventually close with a significant amount of debt . we have look at every different scenario , and the hon . Lady will appreciate that this be not a decision that we take lightly , but we have come to the conclusion that it be the right thing for young people . it be right to be clear that we be close the NCS . this will be the last round of funding , and we will legislate after go through the necessary process . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s important statement . I think we in this Chamber all agree that support the next generation of people in my town of Harlow and across the country be really important . may I make a plea to she ? it be really important to hear young people ' s voice in this process , but what step will she take to make sure that young people who be often forget and leave behind be hear ? have work for a charity that support young carer , I can say from personal experience that their voice must be hear as well . I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I pay tribute to he for the work he be do and for stand up for a group of young people who mean a great deal to I too , have work for the Children ' s Society . they have often lack a voice . it be fantastic to see he in his place and to know that they have a strong voice in he . we be work with a full range of youth organisation , draw on the relationship that we have across the Department to make sure that we reach the right young people . we be in the process of establish a youth advisory group , which be help to make sure that we reach the wide range of young people in every part of the country , and I make a commitment to my hon . friend that we will specifically include young carer in that group . I be pleased that the Secretary of State ' s statement talk of widen the Creative Careers programme . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for perform art education and a proud graduate of Chichester University with a creative degree , I be live proof that a creative degree can take people many place , include Parliament . I be sure the Culture Secretary agree that the narrow nature of the english baccalaureate be reduce the take - up of creative qualification among our young people . how soon can we expect reform in that area ? the Education Secretary have lay out the term of the curriculum review and waste no time in appoint the chair of the review , and that work be under way . as well as make sure that all young people have access to a broad curriculum , my Department be work with many of the organisation that member have describe , such as the Royal Shakespeare Company . we be see the great work that be already happen in community and school , and consider how good we can make sure that all school and all child can get access to incredible opportunity . we know that child and young people have be wait too long to access such opportunity , so we be look at the broad range of way to address that as quickly as possible . my promise to the hon . Lady be that we will not waste a minute . I thank my right hon . friend for her magnificent statement , which be so timely and overdue . I think every one of we in the Chamber will know from their own constituency just how important youth service be and how they have be stretch over many year . there be so many tremendous supplier and player in this area , but local authority play a huge role . could she say a little bit more about how she expect they to deal with any additional statutory responsibility and , critically , about the funding need to deliver absolutely essential service — not just for young people , but for our wide community ? I know that my hon . friend have a great deal of expertise in this area , have support young people in his constituency for a long time . we be acutely aware of the challenge face local authority . as a former councillor myself , and with experience in the youth sector , I know the enormous frustration when more and more responsibility be place on local authority without the necessary support and funding to match . that be one of the reason we have make today ' s announcement about the local youth transformation fund . we think that many local authority need help , not just with funding but with ensure that young people be at the centre of their youth offer . to go back to the challenge that my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) lay down , we must also make sure that we be hear the full range of voice from young people in those forum . some local authority be do a fantastic job , and have be extremely receptive to do more . we be determined to learn from the good and ensure that every local authority in the country be put young people at the heart of what they do . early , the Secretary of State say that some funding would be protect for uniformed youth organisation . could she spell out which organisation will not be receive funding , give that the Government have announce cut to the cadet force ? may I appeal to she to put somebody from either the Sea Cadets , the Army Cadets or the Air Training Corps on the advisory board and to reassure the House that there be no institutional or departmental bias against young people wear a uniform ? I have hear the right hon . Gentleman loud and clear , and I absolutely , wholeheartedly give he that commitment . this be personal for I : in my own town of Wigan an enormous number of young people join the cadet and other uniformed group every year , and we be tremendously proud of they . it be a privilege to be at the Cenotaph with his Majesty the king this Sunday and to meet some of the cadet from Dulwich who do such a fantastic job of welcome the royal family and make that day a success . it be our intention to honour all exist funding commitment , but we be plan to increase some funding stream , particularly to ensure that there be no detrimental impact on young people from the decision to close the National Citizen Service . that include increase funding to some uniformed group , and I will be in a position to set out the specific of that to the House once my Department have go through business planning . I will also take the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion about put a member of those uniformed group on the advisory board ; I be sure we can manage to make that work . I be look over at my official and they be nod agreeably . I will take that suggestion away , and I thank he for it . the Secretary of State rightly point out the amazing work that trust adult and youth worker do . today , the average youth contract be about nine month . how will we address that in the national youth strategy , as well as support youth worker to access qualification , to help they thrive and support our young people ? my hon . friend point to a very relevant problem . in the 20 year since I be in the youth sector , I do not think that problem have get any less acute . it force organisation to reinvent the wheel constantly , or to stop do work that be incredibly valuable . as the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) point out early , the relationship between a youth worker and a young person be incredibly valuable and important to protect , and my hon . friend the Under - Secretary and I be well aware of that . I would be amazed if it do not come up through the call for evidence to young people . the consultation be be design by they , for they , and I would be amazed if that issue do not form part of the recommendation that we take forward into the national youth strategy . in the unlikely event that it do not , however , we will absolutely make sure that we deal with that concern . I have hear my hon . friend loud and clear . I welcome the statement from the Secretary of State and fully support her aim to provide fit - for - purpose and effective support to the young people in our country . one key component be the provision of sport and leisure facility for young people . in September 2023 , the Dewsbury sport centre and swimming pool be close due to limited reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . last week I attend a full council meeting in which the Labour cabinet decide to close the Dewsbury sport centre permanently , cite repair cost of £ 9 million to £ 10 million and the lack of £ 1 . 13 million in run cost . the impact of the closure on my constituent , include thousand of young people , be catastrophic . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how the Government can help with the reopening of the Dewsbury sport centre as soon as possible ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . I do not think I have have the opportunity to congratulate he since he be elect . this Government be very committed to make sure that we provide the sport and leisure facility that young people across the country be clamour for . I have see for myself in every part of the country how much it improve young people ' s confidence and educational outcome , and also how it provide they with the opportunity to live rich , large life . I be very strike at the Olympics and Paralympics this summer by just how many of those athlete start out in the sort of leisure facility that he describe . however , we do young people a disservice if we be not honest with they about the problem and their cause . the hon . Gentleman know as well as I do that council around the country be not clamour to close down their leisure facility . those council have have the bad funding settlement from Government in live memory , and they be deal with the human cost of that in their community every day . they be on the frontline deal with that . I congratulate those councillor who be prepared to go out and be honest with people about the challenge that they face and to seek innovative solution . I give the hon . Gentleman a commitment that I will work with his council to help achieve our shared ambition of make sure that young people in Dewsbury get the opportunity that they deserve . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . she , like I , be a great champion for young people , and I be glad to hear her comment and commitment today about the new national youth strategy . this funding will be a lifeline to youth worker and to youth organisation such as the Burnley Boys and Girls Club , Participation Works and other operate in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield . as she say , local authority funding fall by over 70 % over the past 14 year , and because of that there be less space for young people to operate in and do what they want to do . I note her commitment to £ 85 million of extra capital funding , so will she ensure that scheme in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield be fully consider ? will she meet I and partner in Burnley to talk about the potential for our already part - fund youth zone ? I pay tribute to the Burnley Boys and Girls Club . we in Wigan like it so much that we go out and get one of our own , and it have become the onside youth zone , which do fantastic work with the community . that be a really good example of a public - private partnership , where the council and the business community be jointly invest in the future of young people , and our youth zone stand in the centre of Wigan as a shine testament to how much young people matter to they . I know that that be my hon . friend ' s ambition for young people in Burnley , and I would be more than happy to work with he to make that a reality . the Secretary of State be right : the world have change , and with the enormous prevalence now of electronica and social medium , there be a big premium than ever on get more young people out play sport , do music , join uniformed group and get involve in all sort of purposeful activity — even perhaps public speaking and debating . we need to make sure that we make full use of the asset and facility we have , and successive government have try to get school to open up more . in some area we have have renew progress with the holiday activity and food programme and wraparound care , but what more can be do to ensure that those great facility throughout the country be fully utilise ? it be a long time since the right hon . Gentleman and I be on the Education Committee together , and a lot have change in that time . we be very open to the suggestion of work more closely with school to ensure that those tremendous facility be open to more young people . I would say to he , though , that we do not think that that be the entire answer , because there be young people who do not feel comfortable or confident in school . part of the thrust of the work that I have do and the funding that I have announce today be to ensure that young people have space that belong to they , where they feel that they have a stake and some sense of ownership . for so many young people , that be the key to access service — on their term , not ours — that genuinely help to transform their life . but I be very open to the suggestion that we could do more by work with school . I would not want Opposition member to misunderstand what we be say about citizenship . active citizenship be incredibly important for young people . in fact , there be no future to this country unless they have the opportunity to contribute to the rebuilding of Britain . that be why we name the state of the nation report in the way we do , and one reason I genuinely feel from listen to Opposition Members that there be an opportunity for we to work together to deliver on the promise to this generation . I give the Secretary of State my sincere and heartfelt thank for the focus of her statement . I have work with the youth sector to highlight the severe loss of professional youth worker job that occur under austerity . serious revenue funding be need to fill this chasm , so can she give an estimate of the number of new permanent youth worker post that revenue funding will create under these plan ? I will have to write to the hon . Lady on that point , but I echo what she say . as I say in my statement , building be of no use without the army of adult who work with child and young people . those relationship be hard - fought and that trust be hard - won , and it be something we be determined to protect . many year ago , when I work for the Children ' s Society , we hold the large consultation with child and young people we have ever run . the message that come through from every single submission be the importance of good , strong relationship and of have a trust adult in their life . I be horrify when I see DCMS research show that so many young people in this country do not have a single adult they would trust with their problem . we be determined to change that , but I will write to the hon . Lady on that specific point . I thank the right hon . Lady for her generous comment about the Thatcher Government ' s 1989 Children Act , and for say that she will dedicate £ 100 million to youth outcome over the next four year . do she therefore share my concern , which I be sure may resonate with many young people , that we now know that more than £ 100 million have be waste on the ludicrous High Speed 2 bat tunnel ? do that not show the importance of this House take control of spend priority in order to prevent such waste in the future ? I be not sure whether that will form the centrepiece of what young people tell we in the consultation , but I reassure the hon . Gentleman that this Government take value for money very seriously . although I would not suggest for a moment that there be not huge value in the National Citizen Service , one reason for today ' s difficult decision be that far too much youth - focus spending across Government be too fragmented and not align with the challenge this generation face , as they have tell we loud and clear . we be determined that that will change . I , too , extend my thank to the Secretary of State for her statement and the promise of investment in this vital area . one of the great thing about the NCS , accord to my child , be the time spend outdoors . I be sure she will agree that outdoor play area be vital not only for physical wellbeing but for mental wellbeing . Leicester South have some great outdoor play area and adventure playground , include Highfields and St Andrews . unfortunately , both be under threat of closure due to a lack of funding . do the Secretary of State agree that outdoor play area and adventure playground be vital for our child ' s wellbee ? what specific investment will there be for adventure playground ? will she talk to her colleague to ensure that any new housing project make provision for outdoor play area ? many year ago , the Government have a national play strategy , which my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) will probably remember . since then , there have be a lack of focus on the opportunity for child to play . I will take away the hon . Gentleman ' s point on housing and discuss it with my right hon . friend , the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government . my Department have a specific funding stream for " adventure away from home , " which will be maintain . I will also look for other funding source that the hon . Gentleman and his constituent may be able to access to ensure that every child in Leicester have the outdoor play experience and opportunity they deserve . I welcome the Minister ' s statement — there be no one in the Chamber who be not encourage by what she have say . she will know that there be great disappointment that youth service do not appear to be prioritise in the Budget . early intervention allow child to go on to access training and apprenticeship , direct they away from criminal influence and gang membership . it give they the confidence and self - assurance to combat mental health issue too . be today ' s statement an indication that youth investment be a priority and that community group will not have to scrabble at the funding table ? will there be assistance for community group to access finance and help ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the Government inherit a disastrous economic situation , and not only because of how the economy have be mismanage , but because of the lack of investment in public service over a long period of time . this have mean that so many local council have focus on their statutory responsibility , which have deeply affect youth service . however , the Budget make a number of announcement , include my Department ' s creative career programme . there be fast - grow area of the economy in every nation and region , and we be determined that not only will those community benefit from good job , but young people in those community will have the opportunity to get those job . I be sick and tired of visit part of the country where job be be create that the kid can see from their school playground , but can no more dream of get those opportunity than of go to the moon . we be determined that this will change under this Government . power of Attorney Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about last Powers of Attorney ; to place duty on bank in respect of last Powers of Attorney ; to make provision about the power of the Office of the Public Guardian to investigate the action of an attorney ; to require the Secretary of State to review the effectiveness of the power of the Office of the Public Guardian to investigate the action of an attorney and of its use of those power ; to make provision about the duty of care home in respect of last Powers of Attorney ; to require an attorney to notify the Office of the Public Guardian of the death of a donor ; to require the Office of the Public Guardian to take step to promote the facility to request a search of its register of power of attorney ; and for connected purpose . six year ago , I move the Marriage and Civil Partnership ( Consent ) Bill under the ten - minute rule . this be the first legislative attempt to stop the practice of predatory marriage — a cruel form of abuse in which a person marry an elderly or vulnerable person exclusively for the purpose of gain access to their estate upon death . in the year since , it have become clear that there be other way in which unscrupulous individual may target the elderly and vulnerable . today , I ask the House to try to close one of these procedural gap that harm so many people . the simplification of last power of attorney process in recent year be , I believe , short - sighted , and I will explain why . if I be to describe all the instance of abuse that have be share with I in recent month , I would need far more than my allotted 10 minute . owe to the time constraint , I will therefore share the testimony of just four people who have consent to be name and be not subject to current legal proceeding . the first be Carolyn Stephens , whose elderly , widow father meet a woman in 2012 . at first , Carolyn be pleased that her father have find a new companion , but she grow concerned when this woman begin answer her father ' s phone . over the next few year , Carolyn find herself systematically remove from her father ' s life . first , her father be take to a registry office , where the woman try to marry he , but the registrar refuse , say that Carolyn ' s father do not have the capacity because he could not even answer basic question such as to provide his home address . a week later , a solicitor sign a piece of paper that give the woman LPA over his finance , property , health and welfare , and the power to completely remove his daughter , Carolyn , from his life altogether . after have have no contact for year , have suffer from emotional distress , accusation of abuse and harassment , and have no knowledge of where her father live , Carolyn finally have a breakthrough . in December 2022 , she find he on the electoral roll in a care home . the visit log show that her father be leave alone for 346 day in 2022 , without any visitor , not even on his birthday . even after she find her father , the ordeal continue for several month . eventually , the authority act and Carolyn be able to spend the last six month of her father ' s life by his side . another victim - survivor be Ann Berry . without discussion or notice , Ann be remove from both her partner ' s lpa because the Office of the Public Guardian have receive two partial deed of revocation apparently sign by he . however , because he have Parkinson ' s disease and lewy body dementia , he have be unable even to sign a cheque for at least the previous year . that be report to the Office of the Public Guardian , but Ann be deny access to a screenshot of her partner ' s signature to verify . for two year , the Office of the Public Guardian be unhelpful and consistently slow to respond to Ann . her testimony show how such protective body often prove to be toothless to those who need they most . another case be the story of Sareeta McLachlan , who have sadly not have the same resolution . within two month of her mother be place in a care home , her brother stop Sareeta and other family member from take she out for social and leisure activity . five month later , he ban they from see she altogether , and the care home accept his instruction as he have LPA . her brother claim Sareeta be distress their mother by try to make her discuss financial affair , and that their mother no long want to see she . nine year later , Sareeta ' s nightmare continue , with no explanation give as to why certain family member can not visit , other than her brother allege that be their mother ' s wish . my final case history be that of my constituent Juliette Hirst . Juliette ' s mother be propose to by a man after have be in a relationship for just 17 day . over the follow 20 year , Juliette ' s mother be coerce into only be allow to speak on the phone if it be on loudspeaker , not be permit to attend appointment alone , and not be allow to decide which clothe she could buy or even wear . this culminate in the inheritance from her mother ' s late sister be transfer into a joint account , then into an ISA in only the man ' s name . he spend it all on new car and on a much more expensive house , far away from the rest of the family . then Juliette ' s mother receive a terminal diagnosis . at her mother ' s request , Juliette and her family arrange for a solicitor to visit to get her mum ' s affair in order . however , the husband would not allow the visit without he be present . he stop feed or bathe Juliette ' s mother , and would not even help she to get to the toilet . when Juliette ' s mother lie die in St Gemma ' s hospice , in my constituency , the husband buy another new car for £ 12 , 500 and transfer £ 50 , 000 into his bank account from their joint account while she be bed bind . almost as soon as Juliette ' s mother have die , the husband immediately move a new woman into their flat , dump Juliette ' s mother ' s possession outside in a bin liner . Juliette write to I and say : " it be a repeat pattern of behaviour and there need to be more help out there , especially for the family of these victim . bank can ' t talk to family member if they don ' t have a power of Attorney , but coercive controller don ' t allow any family member to get Power of Attorney , as they want full control . there need to be change with bank , otherwise there be no way of protect the victim . " she be absolutely right . I have be make aware of a shocking case involve a lodger gain LPA over their landlord , provide that individual with access to thousand of pound in saving and the ability to remortgage , and of a man who could not even sign his own name , whose LPA be sign away use just his finger print . the scale of the abuse be already alarming and the simplification of obtain last power of attorney be prove to be fuel the fire . I be sure there be more , as yet unknown , victim - survivor . my Bill be focus on prevention , remove the incentive for unscrupulous individual to take advantage of vulnerable old people . between 2019 and 2024 , some 1 , 066 case be receive involve victim - survivor and lasting power of attorney by the Hourglass helpline . between the same date , casework interaction where power of attorney be mention total 3 , 436 . some 2 , 251 of those case be relate to economic abuse . of the 7 , 973 risk - assess safeguarding concern raise in 2022 - 23 , some 7 , 175 — or 90 % — result in no action by the Office of the Public Guardian . family court datum show that over 50 % of donor be over 75 year old at the point of the registration of their LPA . that mean that , since 2008 , over 4 . 5 million people be over 75 when they register their LPA . they be vulnerable to this type of abuse . my Bill call for the implementation of government - regulate safeguard procedure for all bank over the way they deal with lpa and the account of donor . that would include contact the donor or a gp before an LPA be activate , and monitor spending prior to and after the LPA be activate . there must be new power for the relevant authority to hold the Office of the Public Guardian to account on deal with potential case of abuse , include oversight of freeze order that be rarely , if ever , use . immediate freezing order should be use for those under investigation , so they can not pay their own legal fee with the donor ' s fund , as have happen on many occasion . the Office of the Public Guardian need to remove its financial sustainability mission statement in favour of a mission about the safeguarding of vulnerable people . there should be more effort to publicise the OPG100 , which enable the public to find out whether someone have a last power of attorney . that should include the introduction of online notice after the signing of an LPA and before the registration of such an agreement . care home have a duty to protect new resident who lack capacity and where an attorney produce power of attorney . a care home , or other provider , should have an obligation to update the register with the Office of the Public Guardian . finally , I be grateful to Andrew Bishop of Rothley Law for the help he have give I in this campaign , as well as the four courageous people whose case I have mention . the abuse I have describe be clearly widespread . case from up and down the country be become more evident every day . I believe it be time we act to prevent such appalling injustice , and I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Fabian Hamilton , Bambos Charalambous , Mr Mark Sewards , Paula Barker , Layla Moran , Tim Roca , Chris Law , Alex Sobel , Yuan Yang and Andrew George present the Bill . fabian Hamilton accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 126 ) . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill consider in Committee I remind member that , in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as " Deputy Speaker . " when address the Chair , please use our name , " Madam Chair , " " Chair , " or " Madam Chairman " — we be all quite flexible . clause 1 - exclusion of remain hereditary peer Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider the following : amendment 26 , in clause 2 , page 1 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) Jurisdiction in relation to claim to hereditary peerage be to be exercise by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council . " this amendment provide explicitly that the jurisdiction in relation to claim to hereditary peerage pass to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council . clause 2 and 3 stand part . amendment 25 , in clause 4 , page 2 , line 16 , leave out from " force " to end of line 17 and insert — " only when the House of Commons have agree a resolution which — ( a ) endorse the conclusion of the report a joint committee appoint for the purpose specify in subsection ( 3A ) , and ( b ) determine accordingly that this Act shall come into force at the end of the Session of Parliament in which this resolution be pass . ( 3A ) the purpose of the joint committee of the House of Commons and the House of Lords refer to in subsection ( 3 ) be to consider and report upon the Government ' s state plan for reform of the House of Lords , include — ( a ) the removal of the right of excepted hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords , ( b ) the introduction of a mandatory retirement age for member of the House of Lords , ( c ) a new participation threshold to enable continue membership of the House of Lords , ( d ) change to the circumstance in which disgrace member of the House of Lords can be remove , and ( e ) change to the process of appointment of member of the House of Lords . " this amendment provide that the Bill would only come into effect after the report of a joint committee on wide reform of the composition of the House of Lords have be approve by a resolution of the House of Commons . Amendment 24 , page 2 , line 17 , leave out " this Act be pass " and insert — " the condition in section [ requirement on Government to publish legislative proposal ] be meet " . this amendment provide that the Bill would only come into effect at the end of the Session of Parliament in which the government publish legislative proposal meet the requirement set out in NC19 . clause 4 stand part . amendment 12 , in clause 5 , page 2 , line 21 , leave out " ( Hereditary Peers ) " and insert " ( Appointments and Membership ) " . this amendment would change the short title of the Bill and be consequential on NC9 and NC10 . amendment 7 , page 2 , line 21 , leave out " ( Hereditary Peers ) " . this amendment be consequential on NC3 , NC4 , NC5 and NC6 . it would amend the short title of the Bill . amendment 1 , page 2 , line 21 , after " Peers " insert " and Bishops " . this amendment be consequential on NC1 . it would amend the short title of the Bill . amendment 8 , page 2 , line 21 , after " Peers " insert — " and proposal for a Democratic Mandate " . this amendment would change the short title of the Bill and be consequential on NC7 . Amendment 10 , page 2 , line 21 , after " Peers " insert " and Appointments " . this amendment would change the short title of the Bill and be consequential on NC8 . clause 5 stand part . new clause 1 — exclusion of bishop — " ( 1 ) no - one shall be a member of the House of Lords by virtue of be a bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England . ( 2 ) no bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England be entitle to receive , in that capacity , a writ of summon to attend , or sit and vote in , the House of Lords . ( 3 ) nothing in this section prevent a person who be , or have be , a bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England from receive , and exercise the entitlement under , a peerage for life in accordance with section 1 of the Life Peerages Act 1958 . ( 4 ) nothing in this section prevent a person who be , or have be , a bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England from be permit to enter the House of Lords for the purpose only of lead prayer in accordance with arrangement make by that House . " this new clause provide that bishop of the Church of England will no long be entitle to membership of the House of Lords . new clause 2 — exclusion of bishop : consequential amendment etc . — " ( 1 ) in the House of Lords Precedence Act 1539 — ( a ) omit section 3 ( place of the Archbishops and Bishops ) ; ( b ) in section 6 ( place of the King ' s Chief Secretary ) omit the word after " aforementioned " . ( 2 ) the Bishoprics Act 1878 be repeal . ( 3 ) in the Welsh Church Act 1914 omit section 2 ( 3 ) ( writ of summon to be issue to bishop not disqualify by the 1914 Act for sit in the House of Lords ) . ( 4 ) in the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 , in section 1 ( 1 ) omit paragraph ( za ) ( disqualification of Lords Spiritual ) . ( 5 ) in the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , in section 36 ( 6 ) omit paragraph ( b ) ( a person be not disqualify for membership of the Assembly by reason only that he be a Lord Spiritual ) . ( 6 ) in the Scotland Act 1998 , in section 16 ( 1 ) omit paragraph ( b ) ( a person be not disqualify from be a member of the Scottish Parliament because he be a Lord Spiritual ) . ( 7 ) in the House of Commons ( Removal of Clergy Disqualification ) Act 2001 , in section 1 , omit subsection ( 2 ) ( lord Spiritual disqualify from be a Member of the House of Commons ) . ( 8 ) in the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , in section 41 , omit subsection ( 6 ) ( b ) ( member entitle to receive writ of summon to attend the House of Lords by virtue of be an archbishop or bishop ) ; but this subsection be without prejudice to the continued application of that provision in relation to tax year begin before the commencement of this Act . ( 9 ) in the House of Lords Reform Act 2014 , in section 4 ( 3 ) , omit " or as a Lord Spiritual " . ( 10 ) the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 be repeal . ( 11 ) in the enactment formula use for act pass after the passing of this Act , where the phrase " by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal , and Commons " appear , the phrase " by and with the advice and consent of the Lords and Commons " be to be use instead . " this new clause make repeal and amendment to other act consequential on NC1 , as well as provide for change to word of enactment . new clause 3 — mandatory retirement at the age of 80 — " ( 1 ) a member of the House of Lords who reach the age of 80 during a Session of Parliament cease to be a member of the House of Lords at the end of that session . ( 2 ) no - one shall be eligible for a peerage for life to be confer in accordance with section 1 of the Life Peerages Act 1958 after they reach the age of 80 . ( 3 ) a member of the House of Lords who have reach the age of 80 shall not be entitle to receive a writ to attend the House under section 1 of the Life Peerages Act 1958 or by virtue of the dignity confer by virtue of appointment as a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary . " this new clause provide that peer who be over the age of 80 will no long be entitle to membership of the House of Lords at the end of the parliamentary session they turn 80 and that no one can be appoint a life peer after they reach that age . new clause 4 — minimum contribution in the House of Lords — " ( 1 ) a member of the House of Lords who be a peer and do not participate in the proceeding of the House of Lords or its committee during a period of eight consecutive sitting week cease to be a member of the House . ( 2 ) a person participate in the proceeding of the House of Lords for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) if they undertake any activity which qualify for financial support allowance under the scheme agree by the House of Lords and then in force . ( 3 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not apply to a peer if — ( a ) the peer be disqualify from sit or voting in the House , or suspend from its service , for the whole or part of eight consecutive sitting week , or ( b ) they fall within the term of a Standing Order of the House of Lords provide for exemption from the provision of subsection ( 1 ) for reason relate to parental leave , illness , bereavement or other specify circumstance . " this new clause provide a minimum participation requirement for member of the House of Lords of one contribution every eight sitting week . a member who do not meet the minimum contribution requirement can no long be a member of the House of Lords . new clause 7 — duty to take forward proposal for democratic mandate for House of Lords — " ( 1 ) it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to take forward proposal to secure a democratic mandate for the House of Lords . ( 2 ) in pursuance of the duty under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must carry out the step set out in subsection ( 3 ) , ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) . ( 3 ) within twelve month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a consultation paper on method for introduce directly elect member in the House of Lords . ( 4 ) after lay the consultation paper under subsection ( 3 ) , the Secretary of State must seek the view on the matter cover by that paper of — ( a ) each party and group in the House of Lords , ( b ) each political party represent in the House of Commons , ( c ) the Scottish Government , ( d ) the Welsh Government , ( e ) the Northern Ireland Executive , ( f ) local authority in the United Kingdom , ( g ) representative organisation for local authority in the United Kingdom , and ( h ) such other person and body as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 5 ) within sixteen month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a report on response to the consultation . ( 6 ) within eighteen month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a draft Bill contain legislative proposal on each of the matter mention in subsection ( 3 ) . " this new clause impose a duty on Ministers to take forward proposal to secure a democratic mandate for the House of Lords through introduction of directly elect member . new clause 8 — life peerage not to be confer against recommendation of the House of Lords Appointments Commission — " ( 1 ) the Life Peerages Act 1958 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 1 , after subsection ( 1 ) ( power to confer life peerage ) insert — " ( 2A ) the power under subsection ( 1 ) may not be exercise in relation to a person if the House of Lords Appointments Commission have write to the Prime Minister to recommend a peerage should not be confer on that person . " " this new clause would prevent a life peerage be confer on a person if the House of Lords Appointments Commission have recommend against the appointment . new clause 9 — life peerage only to be confer on person who meet propriety standard — " ( 1 ) the Life Peerages Act 1958 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 1 , after subsection ( 1 ) ( power to confer life peerage ) insert — " ( 2A ) the power under subsection ( 1 ) may not be exercise unless the Prime Minister have receive a letter from the House of Lords Appointments Commission state that , in their view , the person on whom a peerage be be to confer have meet appropriate standard of propriety . ( 2b ) for the purpose of this section , " propriety " mean — ( a ) the person be in good standing in the community in general and with the public regulatory authority in particular ; and ( b ) the past conduct of the person would not reasonably be regard as bring the House of Lords into disrepute . " " this new clause would prevent a life peerage be confer on a person unless the House of Lords Appointments Commission have confirm to the Prime Minister that the person meet the appropriate standard of propriety . new clause 10 — expulsion of peer on ground of prior propriety advice — " ( 1 ) it shall be the duty of the House of Lords Appointments Commission to inform the Lord Speaker by letter of each instance where a peerage have be confer on a person who have be find in their view not to meet the appropriate standard of propriety . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " propriety " mean — ( a ) the person be in good standing in the community in general and with the public regulatory authority in particular ; and ( b ) the past conduct of the person would not reasonably be regard as bring the House of Lords into disrepute . ( 3 ) the Lord Speaker must lay before the House of Lords a copy of any letter receive under subsection ( 1 ) on the next day on which the House of Lords sit . ( 4 ) any person who be the subject of a letter under subsection ( 3 ) cease to be a member of the House of Lords on the day after the day on which a copy the letter be lay before the House of Lords . ( 5 ) where a person cease to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this section , section 4 of the House of Lords Reform Act 2014 ( effect of cease to be a member ) apply as if that person have cease to be a member in accordance with that Act . " this new clause would mean that any Member of the House of Lords who have be appoint despite the House of Lords Appointments Commission find that they didn ' t meet the appropriate standard of propriety would cease to be a Member of the House of Lords . new clause 11 — expulsion of peer who have make donation to a political party — " ( 1 ) a member of the House of Lords who have make one or more donation or loan to a political party with an aggregate value of more than £ 11 , 180 since 1 January 2001 cease to be a member of the House of Lords on 1 February 2026 unless the condition in subsection ( 2 ) be meet . ( 2 ) the condition in this subsection be that the political party which receive the donation or loan pay to the relevant member of the House of Lords the full aggregate value of those donation or loan on or before 9 January 2026 . ( 3 ) where a person cease to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this section , section 4 of the House of Lords Reform Act 2014 ( effect of cease to be a member ) apply as if that person have cease to be a member in accordance with that Act . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section — " donation " mean a donation which be publish by the Electoral Commission in its register of record donation under section 69 of the of the Political Parties Elections and Referendums Act 2000 ; " loan " mean a transaction publish by the Electoral Commission in its register of recordable transaction under section 71v of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 . " this new clause provide for a member of the House of Lords who have make registered political donation or loan of over £ 11 , 180 since 2001 to cease to be a member of the House of Lords unless those donation and loan be repay . new clause 12 — life peerage not to be confer on donor to political party — " ( 1 ) the Life Peerages Act 1958 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 1 , after subsection ( 1 ) ( power to confer life peerage ) insert — " ( 1A ) the power under subsection ( 1 ) may only be exercise to confer a peerage on a person in respect of whom the condition in subsection ( 1b ) and ( 1C ) be meet . ( 1b ) the condition in this subsection be that the person have provide the Prime Minister with a declaration that , since 1 January 2001 , that person — ( a ) have not donate or loan more the £ 11 , 180 to a political party ; or ( b ) have make such a donation or loan , but that it have be repay in full . ( 1C ) the condition in this subsection be that the Prime Minister be satisfied that the declaration make under subsection ( 2 ) be true . ( 1d ) for the purpose of this section — " donation " mean a donation which be publish by the Electoral Commission in its register of record donation under section 69 of the Political Parties Elections and Referendums Act 2000 ; " loan " mean a transaction publish by the Electoral Commission in its register of recordable transaction under section 71v of the Political Parties , Elections and Referendums Act 2000 . " " this new clause would prevent a life peerage be confer on a person unless they have declare that they have not make a donation or loan to a political party of over £ 10 , 000 . new clause 13 — Exclusion of life peer who have recently be member of the House of Commons — " ( 1 ) no person who be a member of the House of Commons shall be a member of the House of Lords — ( a ) during the Parliament in which they be a member of the House of Commons ; ( b ) during the Parliament follow the last Parliament in which they be a member of the House of Commons ; ( c ) during a period of five year commence on the last day on which they be a member of the House of Commons . ( 2 ) where a person cease to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this section , section 4 of the House of Lords Reform Act 2014 ( effect of cease to be a member ) apply as if that person have cease to be a member in accordance with that Act . " this new clause provide that no one who be an MP in the current or previous Parliament , or in the previous five year , be eligible for appointment to , or to remain as a member of , the House of Lords . new clause 14 — Removal of power to make political appointment — " ( 1 ) the Life Peerages Act 1958 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section ( 1 ) ( 1 ) ( power to confer life peerage ) insert — " ( 2A ) no recommendation may be make to his Majesty to confer a peerage except by the House of Lords Appointments Commission . " " this new clause would prevent peerage be confer under the Life Peerages Act 1958 unless do so on the recommendation of the House of Lords Appointments Commission . new clause 19 — requirement on Government to publish legislative proposal — " the condition in this section be that the Government have publish a draft Bill contain — ( a ) provision to remove bishop and archbishop of the Church of England from membership of the House of Lords , ( b ) provision to reduce the number of member of the House of Lords to no more than 650 , and ( c ) such other provision as the Government consider be appropriate to give practical and equitable effect to the provision mention in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) . " this new clause require the Government to publish a draft Bill to remove bishop from the House of Lords and reduce the membership to 650 or less . new clause 20 — purpose of this Act — " whereas it have not be expedient at present for the Government to bring forward legislation to reform the House of Lords , the purpose of this Act be to provide that the Lords Temporal be peer appoint under section 1 of the Life Peerages Act 1958 on the recommendation of the Prime Minister . " this new clause describe the purpose of the Bill . amendment 2 , in title , line 2 , after first " Lords " insert — " to provide for bishop of the Church of England no long to be entitle to membership of the House of Lords ; " this amendment be consequential on NC1 . it would amend the long title of the Bill . amendment 3 , line 2 , after first " Lords " insert — " to make provision for mandatory retirement from the House of Lords ; " this amendment be consequential on NC3 . it would amend the long title of the Bill . amendment 4 , line 2 , after first " Lords " insert — " to make provision for the expulsion of member of the House of Lords for non - participation ; " this amendment be consequential on NC4 . it would amend the long title of the Bill . amendment 13 , line 2 , after first " Lords " insert — " to provide for a requirement for member of the House of Lords to meet standard of propriety ; " this amendment would change the long title of the Bill and be consequential on NC9 and NC10 . amendment 14 , line 2 , after first " Lords " insert — " to exclude from membership of the House of Lords person who have make certain political donation or loan ; " this amendment would change the long title of the Bill and be consequential on NC 11 and NC12 . amendment 15 , line 2 , after first " Lords " insert — " to exclude former member of the House of Commons from membership of the House of Lords for a specify period ; " this amendment would change the long title of the Bill and be consequential on NC13 . Amendment 16 , line 2 , after first " Lords " insert — " to preclude the conferral of life peerage other than upon the recommendation of the House of Lords Appointments Commission ; " this amendment would change the long title of the Bill and be consequential on NC14 . amendment 9 , line 3 , after " peerage " insert — " to impose a duty in connection with secure a democratic mandate for the House of Lords " . this amendment be consequential on NC7 . amendment 11 , line 3 , after " peerage " insert " to preclude the conferring of life peerage against the recommendation of the House of Lords Appointments Commission ; " this amendment would change the long title of the Bill and be consequential on NC8 . thank you , Madam Chair . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship , as I open this Committee of the whole House . as I note a number of time on Second Reading , this be a short and focus Bill . it deliver on the Government ' s manifesto commitment to bring about an immediate reform by remove the right of the remain hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . this Bill be a matter of principle . in the 21st century , it can not be right for there to be place in our legislature reserve for those bear into certain family . have now see all the amendment table by party from across the House , it be clear that there be no principled objection to the aim of the Bill , which be to remove the right of people to sit and make law in our legislature by virtue of an accident of birth . therefore , I hope that all member across the House can join Government Members in vote for this important and long - overdue legislation . I look forward to hear from hon . member over the course of today ' s debate , but I shall start with the detail of the Bill itself . clause 1 be clear , straightforward and central to the overall purpose of the Bill . it remove membership of the House of Lords from the remain hereditary peer . specifically , clause 1 repeal section 2 of the House of Lords Act 1999 , which currently provide an exception to the general exclusion of hereditary peer from membership of the House in section 1 of the 1999 Act . under that exception , 90 hereditary peer and those hereditary peer hold the office of Earl Marshal or perform the office of Lord Great Chamberlain continue to be member of the other place . the clause be a core part of the Bill and deliver the Government ' s clear manifesto commitment to remove the right of the remain hereditary peer to sit and vote in the other place . it will result in the removal of the 92 reserved place for hereditary peer . there be currently vacancy in the seat reserve for hereditary peer — at present , there be 88 hereditary peer in the other place . such vacancy would usually be fill by a hereditary peer by - election , but such by - election have be pause until January 2026 by change to the Standing Orders agree by the other place in July 2024 . the government value the good work do by hereditary peer , and we have speak on several occasion about the individual who have serve in Parliament with duty and dedication . these reform be not personal , but they be long overdue and essential . the Government would find considerable sympathy for their position if they be to make provision for those hereditary peer currently in the House of Lords who have do good work and who have acquire a lot of experience by possibly introduce a phase - out or a generous allocation of life peerage to those who be consider worthy on the basis of their past record of participation . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . there would of course be no bar on the Leader of the Opposition nominate any of those who have serve as hereditary peer for life peerage in the normal way . that sound reasonable , except for the fact that , unless there be a phasing of the process , it would not be possible within the number available to the Leader of the Opposition to nominate more than a small fraction . can the Minister offer any more flexibility on that ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention , but , with the great of respect , it be for the Leader of the Opposition to nominate those whom they consider appropriate for life peerage . on phase out , the measure in the 1999 Act be mean only to be temporary one . twenty - five year later , we be still have these debate . clause 2 abolish the jurisdiction of the House of Lords in relation to hereditary peerage claim . I appreciate that the subject of hereditary peerage claim may be a novel one to hon . member and one that be not discuss on Second Reading , so let I provide a clear explanation of what hereditary peerage claim be , why they be mention in the Bill , and why the Government be propose to remove the jurisdiction of the House of Lords . a hereditary peerage claim — or peerage claim , as I will refer to they — be when a person seek to be formally recognise as the holder of the title of a hereditary peerage . usually , the claimant of the peerage be the undisputed heir and be simply enter on the Roll of the Peerage follow an application to the Lord Chancellor . however , there can be some case where the claim be dispute or complex . currently , these case be usually refer to the other place to advise the Crown on how to determine the claim . the House also confirm undisputed succession of irish peerage in parallel with an application to the Lord Chancellor . Complex or dispute peerage claim occur very infrequently . there have be few than 10 claim consider by the other place in the past 50 year . give that the Bill remove the final link between hereditary peerage and membership of the House of Lords , it be no long appropriate for these issue to be deal with by the other place . that be why the Bill would abolish the jurisdiction of the other place in relation to peerage claim . the intention be that future complex or dispute peerage claim that would otherwise have be consider by the other place will instead be refer to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council under section 4 of the Judicial Committee Act 1833 . undisputed succession to irish peerage will , like other type of peerage , continue to be deal with by the Lord Chancellor . as hon . member know , the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council , which be make up of justice of the Supreme Court and other senior judge , already have a well - establish constitutional role in advise the sovereign and be the appropriate body to consider these matter . the Government have discuss this matter with the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council , which be content to take on this function . therefore , the Government believe that , follow the removal of the hereditary peer , it be appropriate for the other place ' s jurisdiction in relation to peerage claim to come to an end . I think that it would be helpful to briefly address amendment 26 to this clause table by the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) . the amendment make it explicit that the jurisdiction for consider peerage claim would be transfer to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council . the Government ' s position be that it be unnecessary to expressly state in the Bill the transfer of the jurisdiction of peerage claim . that be because , as I have set out , matter such as peerage claim can already be refer to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council by the Crown under section 4 of the Judicial Committee Act 1833 . I therefore urge the hon . member not to press his amendment . turn to other part of the Bill , clause 3 make consequential amendment to reflect the repeal of section 2 of the House of Lords Act 1999 , and more generally on the basis that there will no long be any member of the House by virtue of a hereditary peerage . the amendment reflect the fact that certain provision in the Peerage Act 1963 , the House of Lords Act 1999 , the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , and the House of Lords Reform Act 2014 be now redundant as a result of this legislation . clause 4 set out the territorial extent of the Bill and when it will commence . an amendment or repeal make by the Bill have the same extent as the provision amend or repeal . subject to that , the Bill extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . there be those who believe that this reform be about make the House of Lords more democratic . clearly , the Minister can not be among they , because these provision do not seem to make it any more democratic in a meaningful way . can she confirm , therefore , that she be not in favour of a more democratically elect House of Lords ? this legislation be the first step of reform of the House of Lords , as set out in our manifesto . in our manifesto , we commit to this reform immediately , which be why we be discuss it today . on commencement , the Bill will come into force at the end of the Session of Parliament in which it receive Royal Assent . if the Bill pass in this session , hereditary peer who be member of the other place will depart at the end of the Session . the timing of the implementation of the Bill ensure the delivery of the manifesto commitment for immediate reform in a timely fashion while not undermine the business of the House with the sudden departure of a number of hereditary peer in the middle of a parliamentary session . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) touch on when the Minister think more legislation will be come forward , and the Minister proudly boast about deliver on one of Labour ' s manifesto commitment . when , over the next two , three or four year , do she anticipate the other piece of legislation will be forthcoming to deliver on the rest of the manifesto ? we have make it clear that this be a first step of reform . we be committed to the other reform set out in the manifesto , but it be important that there be proper consultation and that we take time to ensure that they be do in the right way . that work be ongoing . subject to the timely progress of the Bill , it will give due notice to exist hereditary peer , allow for opportunity to give valedictory speech , which be consistent with the approach take in the 1999 Act . on the future reform , do the Minister not accept that when House of Lords reform be discuss in 1998 - 99 , the hereditarie be retain as a temporary measure , yet the Labour Government never come forward with the second stage ? do she appreciate that many of we be slightly cynical about this Government ' s ever bring forward a future stage , so the solution might be to delay commencement until they bring forward proposal ? opposition Members have 14 year to bring about reform of the House of Lords , if that be what they want to do — but alas , they do not . instead , this Government be take an immediate first step on the road to reform of the House of Lords . it be long overdue and we be get on with it . clause 5 simply establish the short title of the legislation as the " House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Act 2024 " . if the Bill be pass in 2025 , the short title will automatically be change to the " House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Act 2025 " . I note that a number of new clause have be table . of course , I look forward to hear from the new zealous member of the cause for constitutional reform , the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , as well as from the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) and for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) and other . I will not prejudge what they have to say on these matter , but I note again that this be a focused Bill that deliver on a clear manifesto commitment . as I have say , the Bill be the first step in the Government ' s broad plan to reform the second Chamber . we recognise that other element of that agenda be more complex , and it be right that we take time to consider they properly . why be the Government proceed with such timidity and " first step " when they have such a large majority and could push through their will if they want to ? this be an immediate first step on the road to wide reform , and one that be long overdue since the 1999 Act . it be right that we be get on with it , and do so in the first session of this Parliament . the hon . Lady have try to paint the Labour party as a great reform party ; yet in 2012 , when there be an opportunity to reform the House of Lords systematically , Labour Members vote against it . why be she so scared to take on more bold suggestion to deliver her manifesto ? previous attempt to reform the other place all in one go have fail . we want to see immediate reform of the other place , which be why we be get on with this straightaway . we can then engage and consult on how good to deliver the other reform , which we have set out clearly in our manifesto . alongside the Bill , the Leader of the House of Lords be engage in dialogue with the other place on take forward reform to bring about a small and more active second Chamber . in fact , as we speak , she be lead a debate on that very subject in the other place . I look forward to further discussion on this matter in the House in due course , so that we get it right . none of the amendment that have be table contest the objective of the Bill to remove the right of people to sit and make law in our legislature by virtue of an accident of birth . they should , therefore , not prevent we from make progress on this important and long overdue reform . it be an honour to speak to the Bill in Committee . when we last discuss it , on Second Reading , my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) — a very great man — set out why the opposition do not approve of the way in which the Government be go about this change . we believe that this nervous little Bill be misconceive and perhaps , at its bad , dishonest . as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) say , it be good to see that the Labour party have finally reject the idea of a democratically elect upper House . that be always a bad idea — something that would impose upon the primacy of this place — and , after the well part of a century of to - ing and fro - ing on the issue , at last we see the Labour party put that bad idea to bed . however , it have other bad idea , and what we see here today be really an attempt to gerrymander the membership of the House of Lords under the cover of a reform . new clause 20 , in my name , would allow we to call the Bill out for what it be . we would like the Government ' s failure to bring forward a proper plan for House of Lords reform , as promise in their manifesto , to be record in black and white as part of the Bill . we would like the Bill ' s true purpose — to enable , for the first time , all lord temporal to be appoint by the Prime Minister — to be place on the face of the Bill . why do this matter ? well , nobody sit in the House of Lords now by simple right of birth . before 1999 , a hereditary peerage generally carry with it the right to sit and vote in the House of Lords , but the House of Lords Act 1999 remove the right of most hereditary peer to membership of the House of Lords . as we on the conservative Benches know , Labour have a problematic relationship with history , and it seem to have forget that the reason 90 hereditary peer be leave be as a firm marker for further reform — the idea be that there would be no more piecemeal reform of the House of Lords , but that instead a Government would need to bring forward a comprehensive plan for change . the Labour Government be now , of course , assert that the continued presence of excepted hereditary peer be an accident . that be not true . at the time , Lord Irvine of Lairg explain that the hereditary peer remain as a guarantee from the Labour Government that the second stage , or proper reform of the House of Lords , would take place . as he put it in 1999 , " a compromise in these term would guarantee that stage two would take place , because the Government with their great popular majority and their manifesto pledge would not tolerate 10 per cent . of the hereditary peerage remain for long . but the 10 per cent . will go only when stage two have take place . so it be a guarantee that it will take place . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 30 March 1999 ; Vol . 599 , c . 207 . ] that lifetime guarantee appear now to have expire . I be a bit worried about what my hon . friend be say . why do we need a comprehensive plan at all ? why not just leave it alone ? as that great conservative , Lord Falkland , once say , " when it be not necessary to do something , it be necessary not to do it . " as ever , my right hon . friend be one step ahead of I . it be not that we seek a comprehensive reform of the House of Lords . it be that the Labour party promise that this would come . the Government promise that they would leave the remain hereditary peer there until they have a plan for comprehensive reform , but that comprehensive plan be miss . labour be throw out the stone in the shoe of the accept hereditary peer and dodge the hard , principle question about how to ensure that the House of Lords function most effectively . my hon . Friend make a pass reference to a fear that what be go here be a form of gerrymandering . do he agree that if generous provision be to be make for really active remain hereditary member , of whom there be probably quite a few , to be give life peerage on a one - off basis , and on the basis of merit , that would dispose of the suspicion of gerrymandering ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . he strike at the critical failure of the legislation , which be that really the Government be seek to remove member of the upper House who happen not to take the Labour Whip . what we all agree on — or what I hope we all agree on — be that the role of the Lords be that of a chamber of scrutiny , and we must welcome more expert scrutiny . we have see from the behaviour , attendance and work of hereditary peer that they be an intrinsic part of that scrutiny , so it be highly suspicious that the Labour party should seek to remove they . indeed , if we set the precedent that the Government of the day can remove member of one House because they do not agree with they , where will it end ? those Cross Bencher hereditary peer who will be axe by the measure have , as far as I can see , do an excellent job , yet they be not be give another way out such as that suggest by my right hon . friend . the hon . Gentleman will know that provision in the 1999 Act stipulate a specific number of hereditary peer by party affiliation , make the Lords the only place where the party of a by - election victor be guarantee before a vote have be cast . he be worried about a loss of expertise in the Lords as hereditary peer be expel . if those peer stay — I do not think that they should — do he acknowledge that the ringfence protect party political position ought to be remove ? my point be more that the Government be seek to remove highly experienced people without offer another way out . we would have be happy to debate that , but we be instead see an attempt to deliberately cut out a group of peer from the constitution . will the shadow Minister clarify his party ' s position on House of Lords reform ? we have hear two or three different view from the Conservative Benches . I remind he that , if we feel that hereditary peer be do a good job , there be an opportunity for the leader of his party to give they life peerage . it be very generous of the hon . gentleman to say that the Prime Minister will create 40 peer at his command — I have no idea that the hon . Gentleman ' s career be progress at such a rate . we all know that that be not what be happen here ; we all know that , in the coded word of the Minister , it be goodbye to the 88 hereditary peer , whose voice will not be hear any more . our position be that it be time for a constitutional conference to consider these matter , and that the major issue be how to have an upper House that do not challenge the primacy of the Commons in conduct proper scrutiny of Government legislation in order to improve it . I be immensely grateful to my hon . friend , who be make a speech in the spirit of his predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , on why the legislation do not pass the efficacy test that I set for it on Second Reading . there be no suggestion that it will make the House of Lords a more effective chamber . a reasonable test of the legislation be whether it improve the status quo . if it do not , why on earth be we pursue it ? indeed , why be we even debate it ? as ever , wisdom from the Deepings . the truth be that this will not make the upper House a well Chamber for scrutiny . all it will do be remove some of the Labour party ' s opponent from that House . the Labour party promise in its manifesto that " the next Labour government will … bring about an immediate modernisation " of the Lords . the manifesto promise that that modernisation would consist of a mandatory retirement age of 80 , a new participation requirement , a strengthening of " the circumstance in which disgrace member can be remove " from that House , reform of the appointment process , and improvement of " the national and regional balance of the second chamber . " although we on the conservative Benches might not agree with those proposal , the Labour party promise to introduce they immediately , but the only immediate modernisation be undertake be to remove a group of hard - work and diligent peer , include 33 Cross Benchers and their Convenor , for the crime of not be Labour party placement . as I be surprised that the Conservatives , as the so - call party of aspiration , be stalwartly defend the principle of hereditary peer . do they not accept that , in a meritocracy , position in the legislature should be open base on merit , not inheritance ? the point that we be make through our amendment be that the Labour party be undermine a key facet of the upper House : scrutiny . we be talk about a body of 88 hereditary peer who have already be perform that job , and have do nothing wrong , but be lose that job because of the measure introduce by the Bill . rise — I will give way one more time and then I will endeavour to conclude my remark . I thank the hon . gentleman for take a second intervention . be he suggest that life peer — I declare an interest in that my partner be a life peer — be unable to undertake the role of scrutiny ? even with these modest reform , which be a stepping stone towards great reform , my party will still be only the third large party in the House of Lords , while his will still be the large by some margin . be he honestly say that his life peer be unable to take scrutiny seriously ? I be delighted to hear that the hon . Gentleman have marry so well . of course , life peer do a fantastic job of scrutiny — they do so every day , and I enjoy read their lordship ' Hansard . what we be talk about be a group of 88 hereditary peer , who have do a very good job in scrutinise Government legislation , but who be be remove , through no fault of their own , simply because they do not fit with the Labour ' s party ' s view . we believe that that be wrong . I turn now to amendment 25 in my name , which concern the very simple conservative principle that constitutional change should not be rush , and should certainly not be propose for political advantage . we have inherit a constitution that have evolve through the generation and have the distinction of work . the current constitution of the other place have be effective in bring expertise and a degree of independence to the work of legislative scrutiny . like much of the uncodified british constitution , one might not have create such a system from scratch , but the try - and - test check and balance of the House of Lords have complement the work of the elect Commons . the Lords do not claim to be a democratic Chamber , and that be the point : our House have primacy . we can see the danger of ill - though - through constitutional change . none of we in this place will forget the difficulty cause by the fixed - term Parliaments Act 2011 , a foolish measure introduce by the coalition Government that create all manner of unintended consequence . it be rightly repeal by the Conservatives in the last Parliament to reinstate try and test long - stand convention . let that be a warning to the Government as they meddle , in the name of petty politic , with long - stand convention that work . Walter Bagehot eloquently describe the " dignified " and " efficient " element of our constitution . in a sense , the hereditary peer represent both thank to the way in which they diligently scrutinise legislation . labour must take care that pull on one thread — in this case , that of the hereditary peer — do not unravel a great deal more . amendment 25 seek to ensure that there be proper scrutiny of the change to the composition of our legislature . it make the simple request that a Joint Committee of both Houses should be allow to scrutinise and report on the Government ' s so - call " immediate modernisation " plan , and that this place should agree before legislation come into force . that plan would be lead by the conservative principle that constitutional change should not be rush but carefully consider , and implement only if the House be confident that it will work . amendment 26 , which stand in my name , seek clarity on the issue of dispute peerage claim . however , I have listen carefully to what the Minister have say , and I understand that exist mechanism be in place . for that reason , we will not press it . to conclude , we on the conservative Benches think that this Bill be a sham of reform . it be fundamentally misconceive , focus on the composition of the other place rather than on how we can ensure that it well perform its vital role of scrutiny . this be a Government and a Prime Minister who do not stand up to scrutiny — a Government lead by politic , not by principle . my amendment seek to reinsert some principle into this process : that promise to both Parliament and the electorate should be keep , and that we should legislate only for what work , not for political advantage . I see no reason why the Government can not accept the amendment today . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Chair . I will keep my comment brief , because I know that that will entertain the Committee more . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] I have not start yet — give I time . I very much enjoy the Bill ' s Second Reading , which be why I have come back for a second go . I genuinely welcome the new reform zeal of the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , and I believe there be merit to some of the amendment that bear his name . I be glad that the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) have say that those amendment be part of our manifesto , because they be , as be this Bill . I be sure that mean that he will want the Salisbury convention to be accept in the other place when the Bill reach it , mean that Opposition Members in the House of Lords will make no attempt to prevent its successful passage . I be sure that at some point in today ' s proceeding , an Opposition Front Bencher will be able to confirm for the record that the Bill will pass smoothly once it have pass this House . we have just hear the importance of the primacy of this House state eloquently by the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) . this House be go to make a decision on the Bill today — to decide whether we believe there should be a role for hereditary peer in the House of Lords — and it will then be send to the House of Lords . give the importance of convention , history and statute , I be sure that he will be able to confirm that the House of Lords will happily pass it , without any attempt by Opposition Members to amend it . I doubt it , but I hope so . the point of the Bill , and the reason why I believe it deserve support from all side of the House , be that — as my hon . friend the Minister point out — this be the first step in a package of House of Lords reform . the hon . Gentleman be a serious individual on the Government Benches , and I respect he very much , but do he not understand that give the delicate set of constitutional arrangement we have , it be not unreasonable to expect the Government to come forward with a plan that set out several step , take we on the journey that they intend to go on , with some substance behind it ? give the number of year the Government have have since the previous change over a quarter of a century ago , it be not unreasonable to expect a little more detail on those second , third and fourth step , or a timetable . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , and to a degree , I agree . that be why we set out in our manifesto the package of reform and change that we hope to see make to the other place during this Parliament , in order to deliver on the promise we make in the election . he be absolutely right to say that constitutional reform be a delicate thing ; that be why it be important that we make these reform with consideration and in small step , to make sure that the unintended consequence of large - scale reform be not feel . the conservative party make modest reform during previous Parliaments , such as give member of the House of Lords the ability to retire from it . that be a small change , but one with consequential impact — far more member have leave the House of Lords under that provision than will be impact by the provision in this Bill . that be do thoughtfully , carefully , slowly and , I think , consensually . similarly , I think that the principle of this Bill — that hereditary peer will no long have the right to sit in the House of Lords — have already be establish in this House . none of the amendment that have be table today seek to overturn that ; none of they seek to make a case for the continuation of hereditary peer . as such , the consensus that the right hon . Gentleman rightly talk about exist in this Bill . the more we seek to tack on to the Bill — take other element of constitutional reform and add they to the Bill — the more we risk that consensus fall apart . we risk this House not have a settle position , create the opportunity for potential wrecking amendment . I do not suggest that Opposition Members be table wreck amendment , but they could be table elsewhere to completely flatline what be a very modest and sensible reform . the hon . Gentleman be make a very reasonable speech . would it be fair to say that he mean this be almost a case of go for the low - hang fruit on which everybody have a measure of agreement , while recognise that future step may be a lot more complex and potentially dangerous if we get they wrong ? there be one aspect that be not of itself an argument for keep the hereditary peer , but be something that will be lose if and when they go . that is , the hereditary peer be one group of people who be not appoint subject to prime ministerial patronage . without stray beyond the scope of today ' s debate , could the hon . Gentleman give we an inkling of whether something like put the House of Lords Appointments Commission on a statutory basis be a reform that the Government might consider , bear in mind some of the controversial case where people have be impose on the House of Lords in defiance of the commission ' s preference ? I could not possibly begin to offer an opinion on the thought of the Government , but I know that my hon . friend on the Front Bench will have hear that question . he should be in it ! I know when to move on . [ laughter . ] I would also never dare to call the hereditary peer low - hang fruit , because that would be slightly disrespectful to they , but I understand the tenor and the tone of what the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be say , and I think he be right . this be about start with something on which there be broad consensus and where the impact on the other House will change our constitutional set - up , but not in a way that will ultimately be detrimental to the important scrutiny role of the House of Lords . I agree with the right hon . member about the important role of the House of Lords Appointments Commission and the robustness with which its advice should be treat . without wish to go down the route of political point scoring , there be something to be say for independent verification of an individual ' s suitability for that place , and how that ought to be respect and put on a footing that would potentially mean that incident like those we have see under previous Prime Ministers would not recur . again , I would love to be able to make a commitment in this Chamber , but the only thing I can commit to are those relate to my constituency and my own personal opinion . the hon . Member speak about the need for consensus . have he read new clause 1 and 2 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , which would remove the bishop from the upper House ? I be sure that be something on which there be great agreement on the Government Benches . do the hon . Member feel able to support new clause 1 and 2 ? the hon . Gentleman have highlight a great example of where on the face on it , there may seem to be consensus , but I fear the immediate impact would not be as simple as he think . we have an establish Church in this country . the Church of England be an established church — it be part of who we be . I fear that the removal of the bishop from the House of Lords would open up a whole series of other conversation about whether or not we still have an establish Church . it would potentially open up question about political and ecclesiastical overlap . again , I think we should debate those thing ; we should have time to debate , discuss and consider the role of the clergy and whether it be right to have bishop in the House of Lords . I do not see why that have to be do through a tack - on amendment to this Bill , but it be something we should discuss in the future . we do not usually have so much debate in Staffordshire on these matter ; we usually have a lot of consensus in Staffordshire . I want to clarify that the amendment that I seek to make to the Bill would not disestablish the Church of England , but would remove from our constitutional arrangement an anomaly — just as the Bill attempt to remove an anomaly . the right hon . Gentleman be right : this be probably more staffordshire than anybody need to hear in this debate , so I will conclude my remark momentarily . I do not disagree with the necessary principle that the right hon . Gentleman be put forward about whether or not bishop should be entitle to seat in the House of Lords by virtue of their be bishop . on Thursday , a Bill be to be debate that would amend the right of woman bishop to sit in the House of Lords , because we have always , over time , gently update and amend our constitution to ensure that it reflect the society we want to be . I would welcome an opportunity to properly debate and consider this matter . the right hon . Gentleman say that it be not his intention to disestablish the Church of England by the removal of the bishop , but there be consequence to these action , which deserve more consideration and debate — what be they ? the right hon . Gentleman ask , " what be they ? " that be why we should have a debate in the future to give we an opportunity to explore that . today , have have a second reading debate , we have the Committee stage of this Bill to look exclusively at the responsibility of hereditary peer and the role they play in our democracy . instead of say that we need a debate in future on whether such a reform might risk disestablishment , will the hon . Gentleman explain what he consider to be the legal and constitutional consequence that would risk disestablish the Church ? I think the very fact that we that we would be seek to expel the bishop , who be the representative of the Church of England , from the national legislature , would by its nature start a consideration of that process . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman may say that it do not , but he do not know that . I fear that a well - mean amendment table by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge would create a more significant debate about the role of the Church in our country . although we may want to have that debate , I be not sure it should be trigger on the back of an amendment to a short , tightly draft Bill about the role of hereditary peer in the House of Lords . if the hon . member for West Suffolk want to bring something forward , I would be more than happy to talk to he about how I could support it , but it should not be tack on to a Bill on which there be already clear consensus around the role and responsibility of hereditary peer . that , I hope , deal with the point that he raise . finally , on Second reading we hear a great deal about our manifesto and the Labour party ' s commitment to House of Lords reform . the ' 99 reform be one of the most significant change to our constitutional settlement that there have be for a very long time . it be not just about the expulsion of the hereditary peer , but the creation of the Lord Speaker and the removal of the Law Lords to sit in the Supreme Court . it be a package that come forward , over time , in a series of Bills to implement the commitment that we make at the ' 97 election . that , for I , be the start of where we be today . we will put through the Bill that do the first part , bank that and then move on . I know that there be an appetite across the House for considerable House of Lords reform — that have be evident from Opposition speech — but we need to bank what we have do and move forward . I hope that today we shall pass the Bill through Committee unamended and on to Third Reading , so that it can make its way to the other place where , because of the commitment that I know the Minister will give in sum up later , the Salisbury convention will be engage ; that it can pass through the House of Lords quickly , without change ; and that we can move on with the rest of the reform that we require . I rise to speak in support of new clause 7 and 8 , which stand in my name , and their associate consequential amendment . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , simply because I think that much of what he say support my amendment . certainly some of the point he make , I shall be make also . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be proud that it be our party that have for decade lead the call for reform of the House of Lords with a democratic mandate . the Bill be a welcome step forward , and one that we support . however , we do believe that broad and bolder reform of our upper Chamber be need , which be why I have table these two new clause to extend the power of this legislation . the new clause would finally see the House of Lords with a democratic mandate and would ensure that the House of Lords Appointments Commission could never again be sidestep and ignore by an unscrupulous government . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s point about strengthen the House of Lords Appointments Commission , but at the risk of broaden the debate a little too far , can she explain why it would be a sensible idea to have a second Chamber of elect parliamentarian ? it would be rather like more than double the size of this House , but with member in two separate place , possibly elect by different electoral system and at different time . it be impossible to imagine more of a recipe for deadlock and conflict . I very much look forward to have that debate in a future session of this Parliament and on a future piece of legislation . that be why I table new clause 7 — to call on the Government to make a commitment to future legislation , so that we in this House can debate and support broad and further reform to ensure the democratic legitimacy of the House of Lords . do the hon . Lady recall that , in fact , we have have that debate ? we have it last in a proper sense in 2007 , on Jack Straw ' s proposal when , on the basis of the consensus that we be try to establish here , consensus there be none , and the thing descend into complete chaos . would she remember that , when make her proposal ? if she think there will be consensus on this extremely difficult issue of an elect House of Lords , I be afraid she be in cloud cuckoo land . well , how polite of the right hon . gentleman to say so . obviously , I do not personally recall what happen in 2007 . what we be try to establish today be the step that can be take to reform the House of Lords . we very much support the step that we be debate today — that first step upon which , as the Minister say in her opening remark , there be broad consensus . we want to see broad reform of the House of Lords and we want the Government to bring forward further proposal in due course . new clause 7 be about push they to produce those further proposal in a timely fashion , so that we can hold that debate in this Parliament and progress the cause of measure on which we can find consensus across the House . give that the hon . Lady ' s amendment be not likely to be pass , I assume that , on the ground of logic and consistency , she will vote against Third Reading of the unamended Bill . as I say early , and she implicitly concede , as it stand , the Bill do not make the House of Lords one ounce , one iota , one fraction more democratic . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . we intend to support the Bill , because we want to see the abolition of the hereditary peer ; that be very much part of what the Liberal Democrats want . however , we want to see more ; we want to go far ; we want to see broad reform . I have to say to the right hon . Gentleman that I have hear not only an appetite from all side to support the Bill — as the Minister say , there be broad consensus across the House for that — but a great zeal on the Tory Benches for further reform . I therefore do not understand why there would not be broad support for my new clause , which call on the Government to enshrine in this Bill a commitment to go far , because that be clearly what so many Tory Members be say they would like to see . with so much trust in politic have be destroy by the chaos of the previous Conservative Government , we must take this opportunity to underscore the integrity of Parliament , with transparency and democratic authority in our second Chamber . we be grateful to the Government for introduce this legislation so early in the Parliament . fundamentally , the liberal Democrats do not believe that there be space in a modern democracy for hereditary privilege . new clause 7 would impose a duty on Ministers to take forward proposal to secure a democratic mandate for the House of Lords through introduction of directly elect member . around the world , trust in the institution and lever of the democratic process have too often fray over recent year . in our democracy , we must ensure that the vital link between the people and their institution remain strong . a democratic mandate be central to that mission . reform of our upper Chamber have be a long - stand Liberal Democrat policy . we must do all we can to restore public trust in politic after the chaos of the previous Conservative Government . by introduce a democratic mandate for Members of the House of Lords , we can ensure that trust in politic be strengthen . the disregard with which the previous Conservative Government treat the public ' s trust threaten to erode faith in our democracy . the Bill be an opportunity to underline our commitment to democratic value and to begin to rebuild that trust . the new clause would strengthen the democratic mandate of the second Chamber , and Liberal Democrats call on the Government to support it as well our call for wide reform to modernise our electoral system . we want to strengthen democratic right and participation by scrap the conservative party ' s voter ID scheme . I be sure that there be a lot on which member of all party can agree . as the hon . Lady note , I table a new clause that would remove the bishop . will the liberal Democrats support that ? it be a policy that Liberal Democrats traditionally support . will they support it today if it come to a vote ? I be happy to say that we support that ambition long term . however , I do not believe that the Bill be the correct vehicle for it . as the Minister say in her opening remark , there be currently a widespread consensus on the Bill and tack on new clause 1 , which the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) table , would threaten its passage in the other place . I want the Bill to be pass as quickly as possible , so we will not support that new clause today . we want to take big money out of politic by cap donation to political party . we also want this new Labour Government to be bold in transfer more power from Westminster and Whitehall . we believe that local authority know well what their community and town need , and we want the Government to acknowledge that by boost their authority and power . we continue to support the finding of the Burns report in 2017 , which recommend cut the House of Lords to 600 peer and outline way in which to ensure that that happen . although the removal of hereditary Members be an important step in that process , we will continue to push the Government to make further reform in future . in particular , we look to they to uphold their manifesto commitment to introduce a retirement age , a measure which would far aid the reduction and subsequent management of the size and membership of the upper House . we want the second Chamber to have proper democratic legitimacy . ultimately , we want to move towards replace the House of Lords with an elect Chamber . we believe that move to a fully democratic , elect Chamber be essential to strengthen the integrity of Parliament and the authority of our second Chamber . new clause 7 would enshrine a democratic mandate for our second Chamber in the Bill , thus strengthen the integrity of our Parliament . new clause 8 would prevent a life peerage from be confer on a person if the House of Lords Appointments Commission recommend against the appointment . we have consistently speak out against the current system of prime ministerial appointment , which ingrain patronage , reinforce the elitism of british politic and contribute to so many people lose faith in our system . we would like the Government to reassure we that they will not follow in the footstep of the previous Conservative Government , who allow the other House to balloon in size , and that they will do everything possible to prevent a culture of sleaze and cronyism from develop in their administration , as we see under the previous Conservative Government . as former Prime Minister Boris Johnson prove by become the first Prime Minister to ignore the advice of HOLAC , make deeply inappropriate appointment to the other House , it be far too easy for a culture of sleaze to develop in the heart of Government . it be essential that we strengthen and improve public confidence in politic . I hope the Minister agree that accept this amendment would strengthen the integrity of any government and prevent the kind of behaviour I have describe from return to Westminster . the new clause would ensure that recommendation make by the House of Lords Appointments Commission could no long be bypass by the Prime Minister , improve the integrity and democratic power of our second Chamber . I be glad that the Government have indicate that the Bill be a first step in reform the other place , and that in their manifesto they commit to reform such as change to the appointment process . I be grateful to the Minister for the Cabinet Office for his recent commitment to consider improve the mechanism for review appointment to the other House and implement safeguard to protect against cronyism . if the Minister and the Prime Minister be sufficiently convince that they will never override HOLAC — which they should be — do they agree that enshrine that principle in law be a good thing ? new clause 8 would strengthen the power of HOLAC and I urge the Minister to support it to remove the perception that the House of Lords will now be more subject to patronage . I also ask he to set out a timeline for introduce broad reform , which would bring the appointment of peer more in line with those of other honour , such as knighthood , which require an overview of the relevant skill , knowledge and experience of the candidate . we be clearly live in a new era of politic . political engagement be at an historic low . voter participation in our recent general election be the low since 2001 , with few than 60 % of eligible voter cast their ballot . it be vital that we do all we can to restore public trust in Government . it be also important that Parliament represent and reflect the diversity and richness of the people and culture that make up our country . currently , not a single hereditary peer be a woman . the privilege of hereditary peer membership exacerbate the distinct gender imbalance of the second Chamber . the Bill , which remove the last remain hereditary peer ' membership of the other place , be a significant step in move towards a more representative Parliament . I hope we can all agree on the inappropriateness of hereditary status as a qualification for membership of a second Chamber in a modern parliamentary democracy , and that be the son , grandson or great grandson of a former courtier , colonial administrator , or 20th - century businessman be neither reason nor justification for a seat in a democratic Parliament . my liberal Democrat colleague and I welcome the Bill and we be grateful to the Government , because in the legislation and subsequently we hope to see the most significant modernisation of the upper Chamber in a quarter of a century . I be a proud , elect Member of this House . like everyone in this place , I be send here by my constituent to fulfil the great honour of my life for as long as the people of Leeds South West and Morley give I permission to do so . I have hear Opposition Front Benchers say today that the Bill be base not on principle , but on political advantage . serve in Westminster should never be an inalienable birthright . we can all get behind that basic principle . the very concept of hereditary peer remain indefensible in the 21st century . we be one of only two nation that currently have they . there should not be 92 seat in the other place reserve for people bear into the right family . it be time to end that . this Bill not only set out our ambition to remove this archaic right , but show our determination to make our democracy strong and more representative . it be just the start of our commitment to reform the other place and improve its ability to do what we be all send here to do : serve the public . it be right that , after the immediate start on hereditary peer , the Government will take time to consider how good to implement further reform , with the public and peer heavily involve in those discussion . give the enthusiasm among Conservative Members for the change that may be come , I look forward to their lead the charge with we to reform the other place . that say , there have be some confusion on the Conservative Benches about the opposition ' s position on the Bill . on Second Reading , I enjoy the suggestion that we be go too far , as well as the suggestion that we be not go far enough . conservative Members appear to want more debate on the broad change that we suggest for the other place , but they spend their time in government block such change for more than a decade . zero progress be make . rise — rise — I will happily give way to whichever Member be more enthusiastic . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman and to my right hon . friend . the hon . Gentleman have present an argument that be base on the principle that hereditary peerage be wrong . will he give we a clear , principle argument in favour of life peerage ? why do he believe that that be acceptable when those peer can legislate for a lifetime — for decade — with no accountability at all ? I emphasise that hereditary peer be in the House of Lords because they be bear into a particular family . that can not be right . life peer be there because they be appoint , usually because of expertise that they can offer in scrutinise legislation . I therefore suggest that life peer definitely have the advantage over hereditary peer simply because they be not there through the family they be bear into . I thank the hon . gentleman for his generosity in give way . he make a persuasive and strong argument . what right do he think the Bishop of Winchester have to vote on matter relate to his constituent in Leeds South West and Morley , or to mine in Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ? what give that bishop the right to be a legislator ? what be the argument ? I have read the right hon . Gentleman ' s amendment and understand his argument , but the change that we be propose today be quite simply a down payment on the broad change we will be bring to the other place . and when we bring those other change forward , I look forward to march side by side with he through the Aye Lobby . I gently suggest that many of the problem in our country today have be make significantly bad because the conservative party have often prioritise keep its faction happy ahead of any coherent policy making for our country . we have see a microcosm of that today , and we see it on Second Reading . it appear from most of the amendment submit in Committee that the Conservatives do not have a problem with the substance of the change that we be offer , so I look forward to see many of they march through the Aye Lobby with we . the other place play an incredibly important role in our democracy . its member both scrutinise and improve legislation pass in this place , which have be very welcome — depend on who we ask — over many year . but the change we be consider today be very simple and be necessary to fulfil the promise we make at the general election : that we would end the outdated practice of hereditary peer . I may not look it , but I be old enough to remember the last Labour Government . they start the process of reform the other place , and it be clear then , as it be now , that it be a transitional compromise . it may have take a while , but it fall on this government to see through the work they start . this be an incredibly simple and effective change to the other place and I urge all member of this House to support it . I appreciate have have the opportunity to table a number of amendment to the Bill , very much in the hope of improve it and ensure that we get it into the good possible place to deliver change — change that will ensure that the law go through Parliament be scrutinise well and more democratically . I appreciate that in politic there be a certain amount of robustness , a certain amount of argument , a certain amount of the " Punch and Judy politic " at which we all despair . we should be look to do more and to do well . there be a number of thing that the Labour party set out in its manifesto that I think command broad public support , and there be a number of thing that it do not spell out in its manifesto that it be implement and that most certainly do not command support . what do command broad public support be some of the change Labour set out for the House of Lords . that be why I have table new clause 3 and 4 . I firmly believe that there be strong support for the introduction of a minimum contribution requirement in the House of Lords . do the right hon . Gentleman accept that new clause 4 do not take into account illness or maternity and paternity leave , and that perhaps eight week be a little too brief ? new clause 4 clearly set out an intention to deliver on what labour ' s manifesto wish to introduce , and I would be happy to work with Government Ministers and the Liberal Democrats spokesman to ensure that we get this legislation into the good possible shape . some of the attendance record in the upper House leave I a little shocked . in the 2019 - 24 Parliament , of the 966 Members eligible to attend at least some of the last Parliament , 28 do not attend at all — do not even bother to turn up — and 116 attend on less than 10 % of the sit day , which be not particularly active . I quite understand why Labour Front Benchers , when in opposition , alight on that and feel that it need to be include in their manifesto . that be why I table new clause 4 . I firmly believe that there be support for it not only on the Labour Benches — Labour Members stand on their manifesto , so presumably they support that proposal — but on the Opposition Benches . during that same period , 158 member of the upper House vote in less than 10 % of the Divisions they be eligible to vote in . I hate to strike a discordant note with my right hon . friend as he and I have fight shoulder to shoulder in many battle , but be it not an illustration of the Pandora ' s box one might be open to consider what the situation would be if all these people turn up at the same time ? I doubt very much that the upper Chamber would be capable of handle it , which then lead we to the question of how to reduce the number to a manageable proportion . so my right hon . friend be get into difficult water with all of this ; he have well be careful what he wish for in get all these people to converge on the House of Lords at once . my right hon . friend and I agree on so many thing , but perhaps I be just want to see this change happen . by add new clause 4 — introduce labour ' s manifesto commitment as part of this Bill — we can significantly reduce the size of the upper House and avoid the kind of intimate crush that he set out . I do not wish to pause the right hon . Gentleman while he be in the middle of his intimate crush , but as someone who be always a fan of a clause iv , I understand what he be try to achieve with this new clause 4 . however , I would put to he one point . under new clause 4 ( 2 ) , participation in a Division would in itself not be the only thing require ; a member could simply turn up , be see and take their seat , and they would not have to take part in a division or contribute . so his new clause would not achieve what he be seek . he will undoubtedly bring this measure back in a future Bill , so will he consider retrospective application ? one of my worry be that a number of member of the other House have not turn up for many week or month , and in fact there be some who over the last two and a half year have an attendance rate of less than 5 % , so would it not be wrong for they simply to turn up now , get their tick and then wait eight week ? if we be to say , " let ' s retrospectively apply this from today , " the right hon . Gentleman would have a huge clear - out of those who have not make any contribution so far , and give that they have not turn up so far , they would not be miss much . I be get excited that the hon . Member be discover a little radicalism , because I always feel I be in his heart , but perhaps the eye of the whip have squeeze it out of he of late . the hon . Gentleman make a very thoughtful and interesting point , and I would very much like to work on a cross - party basis to get the legislation into the good possible shape . on minimum contribution , a number of peer in the upper House have continuously fail to make a significant contribution . there be route for they to be able to exit out of the upper House , but they have choose not to do so . that cause real problem and real challenge for the upper House , and new clause 4 would offer a way to tackle they . I think I will agree with what my right hon . friend will come on to suggest , but be we be a little unfair on their lordship , since clearly a lot of they do not get the memo that say , " you have be appoint to this high honour , and you will turn up and do some meaningful work " ? some of they think they be simply at the apex of the UK honour system . be not the fundamental issue that we have fail to separate the honours system and do a piece of work in our Parliament ? my right hon . friend be spot on . there have sometimes be that confusion , and new clause 4 , or anything that the Government would look to bring forward — as back up by their manifesto and popular support for such a move — would mean that we could get the upper House work much well . the introduction of a mandatory retirement age be another thoughtful and , dare I say it , far - reach policy that be in Labour ' s manifesto . I pay tribute to the Paymaster General . we all know he be one of the fine author in this House , and his publication be still available on Amazon , although they be not quite as seek after as those of the former right hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip . I be sure that the volume on the Prime Minister that will no doubt be come forward will be a real hot seller , but the Paymaster General be a great author and he come up with the mandatory retirement age , I imagine , and it be a good policy . it be certainly worth include in this legislation that he be bring forward . it be not onerous in add too much to the Bill , and it would have a significant impact in reduce the size of the House of Lords . we know that the House of Lords be the large legislative chamber outside of the People ' s Republic of China . the simple act of introduce a mandatory retirement age , which be a key part of the Labour party ' s manifesto , would considerably reduce the number of life peer . it would also have a significant impact on reduce the cost of the House of Lords . I be sorry to declare an interest , but why be my right hon . friend so ageist ? some people be wonderful at the age of 80 , and other be useless at the age 50 . my right hon . friend make a powerful point . we have to respect the fact that Labour achieve a majority at the last general election . it have a manifesto to enact change — I think that be the phrase . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] this be an opportunity to do it , but the Government seem frightened . I would hate to make the suggestion that deal be do with previous member of this House who be mean to be send up to the other House , and that the Government would not introduce this change because it would lead to those people ' s automatic exclusion or suchlike . I certainly would not want to imply that , but we need to see this change . new clause 3 would enable the Government to deliver on their manifesto commitment , and that be important , because there have sometimes be talk about the breakdown in trust in politic . there have sometimes be talk that we need to build confidence in politic . the good way of build confidence in politic be to set out our manifesto , and one party win , one party lose and then the winner deliver on that manifesto . this be a great opportunity to do that . I appreciate that both the Paymaster General and his hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) have set out to Members that future legislation be come . I personally think that be a slightly optimistic view , and I have sit on parliamentary business and legislation Committees in the past , so I understand the pressure on the legislative timetable . if the Paymaster General be under the illusion that he will be get wave of new Bills go forward , he will end up at the end of his ministerial career slightly disappointed , because that eventuality simply will not happen . finally , I will turn to new clause 1 and 2 , which I accept be not in the Labour ' s manifesto . it be great to hear the right hon . Gentleman speak of the Labour party ' s manifesto at the last election and about how important it be that we can get through our programme for government , have be elect with such a resounding win . do his support extend to other area in our manifesto , such as the Employment Rights Bill ? will he also support that ? there be many area of the Labour party manifesto that I would agree with , and there be many that I disagree with , but the hon . Lady be in the fortunate position of have a great deal more power than any Member on the Opposition Benches . she can bring influence to bear on those on her Front Bench , and I urge she to do so . there be an ability within this Bill to deliver on a number of the commitment that she make to her electorate and that the Prime Minister make to elector across the country . I encourage the hon . Lady to use her position of influence and power to encourage Government Front Benchers to deliver what she be elect to deliver . there will always be area of agreement on both side of the House , and there will occasionally be area of discord where I can not always agree with my Front Bench team , but there be an opportunity to deliver what the Labour party promise . I thank the right hon . gentleman for be so generous and gracious with his time . he rightly point out that his new clause 1 and 2 be not Labour party manifesto commitment , so he will understand why they could cause the Bill to become unstuck when the Salisbury convention be apply at the other end , as the Minister will confirm later . have he use his position of power and influence to confirm that Conservative Members in the upper House , with their plurality and majority in most vote , will support new clause 3 and 4 , so that the Bill can still make its passage and deliver the one thing on which we have consensus ? the hon . gentleman flatter I by suggest that I have any power . once , as Chief Whip , I could have have a gentle nudge on the tiller to make thing happen , but sadly the only army I can now bring to bear be I . I will happily do what I can on these important new clause , and I will walk side - by - side with the Paymaster General , through the Lobby to deliver for his party on its manifesto commitment , but I be afraid that be the only commitment I can make , because I would not wish to over - promise . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way in his entertaining speech . he make several reference to our manifesto , but I would like to make some reference to the conservative party ' s manifesto — Order . I hope the hon . member ' s intervention be on the House of Lords and within the scope of the Bill . it be relate to reference to reform of the House of Lords . there be no reference to reform of the House of Lords in the conservative party ' s manifesto . there be one reference to peer but not to peer in the other place , and there be a few reference to the constitution but not to our unwritten constitution . will the right hon . Gentleman tell the House why he be now so fascinated by these measure ? I thank the hon . gentleman for make a point , and I hope that his whip have note the support that he be try to offer . I bring his attention to 2012 , when there be an attempt at a major body of reform of the House of Lords . that be something that I be go to vote for ; I want to see that reform in 2012 as I wish to see that reform in 2024 . this may shock he and start to undermine his faith that he join a party with radical tradition or a wish to deliver reform or change : it be the Labour party — his party — that vote that attempt down and make sure that it could not proceed . the right hon . Member mention the 2012 Bill . will he enlighten we as to how his party vote on that ? I be more than happy to do so . More Conservative Members vote in favour of that legislation , and it collapse not through lack of support on Conservative Benches or liberal Democrat Benches but because her Majesty ' s official Opposition at that time be go to vote against it , which mean that the number be not go to stack up . the decision by the Labour party and its leadership to collapse that piece of legislation mean that a significant body of reform do not happen . I turn to the Labour party manifesto . perhaps the hon . member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) have have a glance at this , but possibly not . it say on page 108 that Labour would introduce " legislation to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . labour will also introduce a mandatory retirement age . at the end of the Parliament in which a member reach 80 year of age , they will be require to retire from the House of Lords . " the subsequent paragraph say : " labour will ensure all peer meet the high standard the public expect of they , and … will introduce a new participation requirement as well as strengthen the circumstance in which disgrace member can be remove . " those be perfectly sound point of policy , which the party stand on at the last general election , but now it choose to ignore they . rise — I appreciate that Labour member wish to earn brownie point , and I will let another earn his brownie point and edge that little bit close to the allure of a junior parliamentary private secretaryship . will the right hon . Member remind I how long a parliamentary term be and therefore how long we have to implement our manifesto ? order . I remind member that they should be in for the duration of the debate , or make an effort to be in for a considerable duration , before make intervention . thank you for your firm chairmanship of this debate , Madam Chairman . the hon . Member make a strong and powerful intervention , which I hope be note down . I can see he be the parliamentary private Secretary for the junior Minister in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs very soon . I be not sure if my commendation and support help he in his endeavour , but I hope that it do . of course , the hon . Member make a thoughtful and interesting point . the Government do have time to introduce further legislation , but the reality be that pressure on time in this place be one of the great pressure — time be the most precious thing . I certainly would not engage in any form of political betting — I hope that can be record in Hansard — but if , perhaps in a previous age , I be a bet man , I might have offer this wager to the Paymaster General . I would wager a whole £ 5 that the Paymaster General will not be in a situation of get any more legislation on Lords reform . I will give way to the Paymaster General , who be go to refute that . I certainly would not enter into a wager . I would have hope that the conservative party would have learn its lesson on that . I have hope that the Paymaster General would have give a categorical assurance that there would be further legislation and that in the next king ' s Speech a retirement age in the House of Lords will be introduce as part of that legislation , along with a minimum participation level , but he stay silent . he make a little quip . I will give he another opportunity to do so , although he will probably stay in his place , which be of course his right . I do not know where the naive assumption or belief on the Labour Benches that there will be furth Lords reform come from . there will not be any more . I be here during the ' 90 when Labour attempt to bring in Lords reform and give up immediately , with no intention of ever bring that back . this be it — this be all we be go to get — and unless we make this a good Bill , this be all we will get in this Parliament . I thank the hon . gentleman for make an incredibly powerful point . he be absolutely right . he be a veteran of these argument and know how it will go because we have see it before . this be the moment . there be not go to be another one — this be it . I turn to new clause 1 and 2 , which be the most important of the one that I have table . it be fundamentally unfair that we still have a situation where a bloc of cleric have a right and a say over our legislation — over how my constituent live . I can not see how in today ' s world that can be justify . we have not see argument come forward as to why these 26 bishop should be defend . rise — I will give way in a moment . as an Anglican , I can not see why I have a right to great representation than my child , who be Catholics . I be often tell , " the bishop have be there since the Reformation . " well , lot of thing be happen around the Reformation that I be not that keen to see happen today . I appreciate that the Paymaster General may have a different view on that and may want to revive some of those age - old tradition , but I do not . this be an opportunity not to jeopardise the Bill but to improve it . I recognise that the proposal be not in the Labour party manifesto , but I ask Members across the House to consider whether , in all conscience , they should vote for this anomaly to continue to exist . from my perspective , this be an issue of conscience , and of what we think and feel be right . those 26 bishop do not come from every component part of the United Kingdom — they do not come from Wales , Northern Ireland and Scotland , but only from England . the composition of those bishop be probably not reflective of today ' s world . I feel it be fundamentally wrong that , because of the statute of 1847 , the Archbishop of Canterbury , the Archbishop of York , the Bishop of London , the Bishop of Durham and the Bishop of Winchester have a right to legislate on my constituent . I believe that they have an absolute right to influence the course of public debate , but from the pulpit , not in Parliament . my right hon . Friend allow I , on that basis , to give he a short lecture on the character of conservatism . he need to understand that the collective wisdom of age , vest in great institution like the monarchy — which , by the way , be hereditary — the Church , this Parliament and the small institution that Burke call the " little platoon " , transmit in age - old form be always more important than the fad and fashion of any one generation at any point in time . if he understand that , he would understand why he be a Conservative . I always have feel that my right hon . friend be all the collective historical , accumulate wisdom that we could ever possibly want . I have always believe that the great strength of conservatism can be the ability to reform and to have a radical approach to change our country and the world in the shape that we wish it to be . I be very much warming to what my right hon . friend have to say . he rightly speak of the Reformation , but will he recall that , broadly speak , there be two reformation in this country ? there be the English Reformation and the Scottish Reformation . we never have any discussion about the place of the other establish Church , the Scottish Church , in our constitutional arrangement . that seem to be a quirk of history . I be not for one moment suggest that Moderator of the Church of Scotland should sit in the other place , but it underscore and highlight the issue that my right hon . friend have raise about the position of the english bishop . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . the position of the Lords Spiritual throw up more question than it answer , and that be why I deeply urge those on the Treasury Bench to look at my amendment and to ask whether they can make their legislation well . can they be the Government that I think they wish to be , in order to deliver that change ? I certainly share much of the right hon . Gentleman ' s zeal on the removal of the Bishops from the Lords . do he share my concern about the privileged speaking and seat position that they have in the Lords ? I do , and if we have the opportunity to divide on my amendment , I be look forward to the hon . Gentleman join I in the Lobby . we can sort that problem out with this piece of legislation by vote to get rid of they , and therefore there will be no privileged seating arrangement , and a little bit more space for the wife of the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , the husband of the hon . member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) and all other peer on the Government Benches , as that be where I think they sit . I can go through all the argument on the presence of Bishops in Parliament . only one other sovereign country have cleric in its parliamentary body , which be Iran . I do not think that be necessarily the good model for we to base ourselves on . this piece of legislation give we the opportunity to have a more reflective parliamentary body . across Europe , many country have a strong faith , where religion play an incredibly important part in national debate and national discourse . but none of those country , whether France , Germany , Italy , Spain or Portugal , feel the need to have that assure clerical block of Bishops in their legislature . Less than 2 % of the british population attend anglican service on a Sunday . by take this action to remove the bishop , we recognise that Britain be a changed country . Britain be very different today from how it be in 1999 . if we look forward to when Lords reform legislation next come forward , probably in another 20 year , Britain will be change again . let we use this opportunity to ensure the upper House be more reflective of our nation . the reality be that the Lords Spiritual do not take part in many division — 14 % . if the Labour party introduce participation requirement , it would probably mean the exclusion of a number of bishop . datum have show that the support for have bishop in the House of Lords be incredibly low . indeed , even in the Anglican Church support for have bishop in the House of Lords be incredibly low . some 60 % of priest back reform to the bishop ' s Bench . go back to the 2012 legislation , there be proposal to shrink the bishop ' s Bench from its current 26 to 12 . yet the Labour party have shy away from all attempt to do even the most modest reform . there be no credible example of where it be reasonable to have bishop legislate on our constituent . the only argument from the Labour party seem to be that this be a simple bill . well , this be a simple amendment . it be not right that so many of our constituent who do not have an anglican faith be legislate on by anglican bishop . we have to make these change and we have to seize the opportunity , because this will be the last and only opportunity to make they while this government be in power . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairmanship , Madam Chair . I would like to speak in support of the Bill , which I believe be long overdue . I thank the Minister for her contribution and welcome in particular her warm word on the importance of the Bill as a clear manifesto commitment to reform how the other place function as " an immediate modernisation " . since the groundbreaking House of Lords Act 1999 be pass by a Labour Government , there have be no substantive reform to the hereditarie in the other place despite an obvious public appetite to do so . indeed , a study conduct by University College London ' s constitution unit find that only 6 % of respondent support the current system . before have the enormous privilege of represent the people of Bolton West , I spend over a decade tackle bribery and corruption . time and again , I have see how trust be develop only when those responsible for decision making be truly hold accountable . I will focus on the word accountability , which be gravely lack with the remain hereditarie . over the course of my working career , it have become clear that the UK have an important role to play on the global stage as a world leader on political integrity , but this country ' s reputation as a well - govern and , frankly , clean jurisdiction have be degrade over recent year . country that previously welcome our counsel with open arm now look on it with scorn . that be why this long - overdue reform matter to I and why I passionately support the Government on the Bill . I be sure there be some hereditary peer who undertake hard work and I have no doubt that many have a genuine commitment to public service , but the concept of hereditary peerage , hereditary privilege and be able to legislate for life merely by dint of birth belong in the same breath as second job , lobbying scandal and the revolve door . it be an anachronism that need to go . contrary to the protestation from Conservative Members , the Bill be not about spite . rather , it be about improve trust and accountability in our politic . the public expect high standard from our legislature , but the simple fact be that too many hereditary peer do not play a proper role in our democracy . we make that point in the labour manifesto early this year , which Opposition Members will no doubt note result in a resounding mandate across the country to deliver change . the fact do not bear out what the hon . Gentleman have say . if he look at the record , he will see that hereditary peer tend , proportionally , to speak more often in debate , they tend to be more involved in table amendment , and more of they tend to be whip . they be more active , in proportional term , than the appointee — who also , by the way , lack democratic legitimacy . I thank the right hon . member for his contribution , but he will note that I do not mention activity or participation in the other House . I mention democracy and democratic accountability , which hereditary peer do not have . neither do life peer . we will come on to life peer shortly . this be an important change that be in our manifesto . as you will recognise , Madam Chair , it be important because we need equality of representation , which be vital if we be to retain confidence in the way in which both this House and the other place operate . it be 66 year since woman be allow to sit in the other place , but there be currently no woman among the hereditary peer there , and I for one am embarrassed by that . it be a disgrace . as a member from the north - west , I should add that it have not escape my attention , or that of my constituent , that individual from my part of this great nation be under - represent in the other place — especially , again , among the hereditary peer . accord to the Electoral Reform Society , 35 % of hereditary peer live in London and the south - east . I do not accept that a hereditary peer who be the son of a duke , an earl , a viscount or a marquess be any well prepared to scrutinise legislation than the daughter of a plumber or the son of a nurse . the hon . Gentleman be make an incredibly powerful speech , and one of great merit . do he believe it be right for english bishop , and only english bishop , to be able to vote on scottish affair and rule the roost over Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland ? I think that that point be very much akin to his own argument . I admire the right hon . member ' s penchant for House of Lords reform , but I will come to these point later , if I may . the consequence of not act be no less than existential when it come to trust in our politic , in this place and in the other House . trust in politic be at an all - time low , which be a legacy of 14 year of cronyism and corruption from the party opposite . indeed , polling conduct by the UK Anti - Corruption Coalition early this year — [ interruption . ] I think that if the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) listen to what I have to say , he will reflect on it . two third of respondent — two third — feel the UK be get more corrupt , and in 2023 only 12 % of respondent tell the Office for National Statistics that they trust political party . it all add up . Turnout in July be 60 % , the second low in a UK election since 1885 . at a time when autocratic hostile state seek to undermine we at every turn , democratic engagement have rarely be so important . I believe that that this Bill be a small but important step towards restore that trust , as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister promise we would do during the election campaign . the Committee will also note what I very much hope be the impending appointment of an ethic and integrity commissioner , an anti - corruption champion and a covid corruption commissioner . those be all vital measure , alongside the Bill , to improve standard and increase accountability . I urge the Government to confirm those appointment as soon as possible . they be further step towards show the country that it be vital to regain trust in politic as a means of improve life for all . the point about trust in politic be valid , and the hon . member ' s statistic show a deterioration in that trust over the last couple of decade be probably something for all of we in this Chamber to reflect on , notably the politician who be new to the House . I be not sure how hereditary peer , who have be serve for decade , since the time when trust in politic be far high , be to blame for the modern lack of trust . that be more for those in this House to consider , especially new member , rather than people who have give lifelong and diligent service in the other place . I thank the hon . member for his contribution . hereditary peer be there by dint of birth , not by dint of their service or contribution to public life . he talk about decade of service , which may accrue over a period of time , but that be merely by dint of birth . we will shortly come to appointment to the other place , which touch on the point about accountability and trust . I want to talk about the various amendment table by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) . as colleague have say , it be a great shame that he do not discover that he have such a penchant for reform and modernisation during his 14 year as a Member of the govern party . I point out to the hon . Gentleman that I vote for House of Lords reform in 2012 . I hope that he will take the opportunity to withdraw his comment , give that in 2012 his own Front Benchers vote against reform or indicate that they would do so . unless I be mistaken , the previous debate on this Bill be the first time that the right hon . Member mention House of Lords reform in this place . the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) and the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge have correctly note that our manifesto include many of the amendment that the conservative party be attempt to push through today . I look forward to work with our Front Benchers on further modernise commitment that be enshrine in our manifesto , which I can assure conservative member I have read . those commitment include change to the appointment process to improve the national and regional balance of the second Chamber , a mandatory retirement age , a " long - term commitment to replace the House of Lords with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation " , and a participation requirement . however , I be sure that Conservative Members agree that anything as knotty , unwieldy and fundamental as constitutional reform will inevitably have to be incremental . do too much too soon may cause damage . I note that the conservative party take that logic to its extreme over the last 14 year by bring forward no substantive reform whatsoever . there be no mention of Lords modernisation in the conservative party manifesto , as my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) mention . the meagre change make under previous Conservative Administrations comprise nothing more than tinker around the edge at a time when the other place need to be urgently drag into the 21st century . I will not support the amendment . if member present be genuinely commit to modernise how our democracy work , I look forward to constructive engagement with the Government and the opposition throughout the course of this Parliament . I commend the action take so far by the Government and will support further measure over time to modernise how the other place work . a mature democracy such as ours — centre around the mother of Parliaments , no less — simply can not continue with an unelected , hereditary upper House . we hear early from the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar , who talk about , in his word , gerrymandering . let we talk about gerrymandering . let I recall one statistic that be worth remind the House about : for every one and a half day that former conservative Prime Minister Liz Truss be in power , she create a life peer — a total of 32 during the course of her 49 - day premiership . much like the hereditary peer , those new legislator will have a seat in the House of Lords for life . how can that be right ? indeed , it be clear to I that the House of Lords Appointments Commission do not present a particularly high bar for appointment . once the immediate first step be complete , a number of ambitious step must be take to deliver genuine , last reform of the way we do politic in this country . in summary , this Bill will help to wrench our political system kick and scream into the 21st century . the Conservatives , include the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge , sit on their hand for the last 14 year . we have be in government for four month , and we be already deliver . I look forward to vote for the Bill tonight . I rise to speak in support of new clause 9 to 14 , which stand in my name , and all the associate amendment , but I will also support any amendment that would reduce the size of the House of Lords and limit its authority in our legislature , as long as it remain a wholly democratic institution . I be quite a simple soul . I be just someone who intrinsically believe that if you represent the people , you should be vote for by the people . I believe that if you be to legislate , it require consent through some sort of electoral mandate from a group of people who vote for you to go into a legislature to represent they and who allow you to make the law of the land . that be a simple belief and I think it be generally support by the majority of the british people . certainly the late opinion poll on the House of Lords show that only about one in seven people in the UK think that the House of Lords in its current condition be worth support . a vast majority want a fully elect House of Lords , and that be what Labour promise . that be what they say they would deliver . that be what they commission Gordon Brown to do , and he come back with a report that say he would do it . and , of course , it have not happen . I be touch by Labour Members ' naive faith that there will be more than this Bill . it be quite touching that they actually believe that a succession of piece of legislation be go to come through that will incrementally deal with all the issue of the House of Lords . I be sorry to break to it to they , but that be not go to happen . the hon . Gentleman ' s party have long talk about constitutional change in this country , but it be our party that deliver devolution in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , as well as a Mayor for London and the London Assembly . his party have only talk about it . be that not the reality of our party deliver on constitutional change ? yes , of course we be delighted that we have the Scottish Parliament . I congratulate and thank the Labour Government for deliver that , and they be right , but they have never deliver anything when it come to the House of Lords except the reform of 1999 . that be the only thing that they have bring forward , other than this pathetic , minuscule Bill that do something that should have be do century ago . we be suppose to congratulate they and thank they for get rid of the most ridiculous class of parliamentarian anywhere in the world : the hereditary peer of England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . it be absurd . well do for finally get rid of the baron , the duke , the earl and all the other assorted aristocrat ! that should have be do century ago . the commitment that I be wait for from Labour be the commitment that it give over a century ago . do Labour Members know what that be ? they do not know what it be , so I will tell they . a Labour party commitment from over 100 year ago — I can not remember the exact year — say that it would abolish the House of Lords . that be a historic commitment by the Labour party that it have not even come close to realise , but it be now — thank you , Labour party ! — get rid of the earl , the duke , the baron and the grace , so I suppose we have to be thankful for that . I would be interested to hear the hon . Gentleman ' s assessment of how that radical reform from 100 year ago be go . I appreciate that he may not have study the labour manifesto — many Labour Members have not do so either — but it state that Labour aim to make a " second chamber that be more representative of the region and nation . " I wonder whether he could share his thought on how that be go , and whether he think that Mrs Gray will be able to contribute to that in a significant manner . let ' s just say that the progress have not be all that be anticipate or all that we hope for . we could say that progress have be practically non - existent . we also have the crush news today that our british envoy to Scotland will no long be go there to represent this Parliament as part of her duty in the nation and region . I can tell the House that the nation of Scotland be almost inconsolable about the fact that our envoy will no long be go to Scotland . we be plan the street party and practise the haka , just to make sure that she would be properly welcome to our northern territory , but she be no long go to be there . although the hon . Gentleman want to get rid of the hereditarie , his party seem to want to create a hereditary system by allow the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) to stand for the Scottish Parliament . I gently break it to the hon . Gentleman that no SNP Member will ever end up in an undemocratic outrage like that place down the corridor . I do not know how many Scottish Labour Members will be in Parliament for 20 or 30 year , but about 15 of the last generation of Scottish Labour Members be now in the House of Lords . this conveyor belt that reward a distinguished career in the House of Commons with a place in the House of Lords be one of the thing I want to address with my amendment . I have hope to table an amendment to try to realise labour ' s historical ambition to abolish the House of Lords . thank to the good work of the Clerks , I know that I be highly unlikely to secure such an amendment , and that be probably right , so I think I would be creative and try to abolish its membership . I therefore draft a series of amendment to try to get rid of all the distinct group and class of member of the House of Lords . again , I think I would be singularly unsuccessful in that mission and endeavour , but I have three amendment on the amendment paper . those amendment be cracker , believe I , but I look forward to speak about they . they would abolish the prime ministerial donor , appointee and crony who fill the other place , and they would abolish the idea that former member of Parliament can assume they will get a place in the House of Lords . I be really pleased with myself . it be a pity to interrupt the hon . Gentleman when he be in such a state of excitement about his work , but it be difficult to take a lecture from he on delivery when this Labour Government have deliver so much in just a few short day . he may want to talk to his colleague in the Scottish Government about their delivery on , for example , the state of the health service in Scotland . what be the hon . Gentleman ' s stance on the multiple occasion in recent year when senior figure in his party have approach friendly peer to table amendment to legislation on their behalf ? it seem that those senior figure be quite happy to use the other place when it suit they . there be a point of principle behind our position on the House of Lords , and it be a simple word : democracy . we refuse to have anybody in the House of Lords because we believe that people should have an electoral mandate — democratic backing from the people of this country — to serve in the legislature . that be something on which the hon . Lady and I will never agree . I believe she be quite happy and satisfied that unelected peer continue to inhabit the other place . my party be hopeful that the House of Lords might sometimes challenge government , and perhaps make they think again , but it always back down . any attempt to get the House of Lords to agree to any sort of principle be a waste of time . the hon . Gentleman be clearly very pleased with himself and his amendment . the only seat as secure as a seat in the House of Lords be a seat at the top of a regional list for proportional representation . he have table a well - mean amendment to prohibit any Member who have serve in this Parliament or the last from seek a seat in the House of Lords . would he apply that to his own party , so that any Member who have serve in this Parliament or the last be not eligible to seek nomination or election to the Scottish Parliament ? I say to the hon . Gentleman , ever so gently , that he should leave bypass devolution to his friend from Scottish Labour , because they be just a little bit well at it than he . it be their job to constantly speak about the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish Government . to be fair to they , they have do a fantastic job — they barely even mention the UK Government . every single contribution they make be about the Scottish Government , so maybe just leave it to they , shall we ? I be hope to bring forward an important amendment that be discuss quite widely in the press yesterday . I do not know whether the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) know this , but member of the House of Lords do not pay a penny of tax — not one penny of tax — on the £ 346 they get just for turn up . they be among the wealthy people in this nation , but not one penny of tax be pay on that money , so I try to bring forward an amendment to put an end to that . I can not believe the surprise and astonishment among my constituent , and probably among a number of constituent across the United Kingdom , when that be make apparent . how on earth can it possibly be the case that Members of the House of Lords do not pay any tax on the allowance that they get just for turn up ? that be something we have to address . of thing on the great long list that will never be realise in the course of this Parliament , how about look at that , dear Labour Government ? the amendment that I be most pleased to have get on to the amendment paper be the one about donor . the donor be people who have a place in our legislature — people who can design , comment and reflect on the law of this country — whose only seeming and apparent ability be to give large sum of money to one of the three main UK establishment party . we have hear a lot about trust from member of those party and about what the public feel about politician in the political institution , but how about solve this one ? how about take money out of the legislature ? how about say that if people give money to one of the three big political party , they be therefore naturally debarred from take a place in the legislature ? my sensible amendment would deal with that at a stroke : no more cash for honour and no more list of Tory treasurer be naturally give a place in the House of Lords . my amendment say that if someone have give more than £ 11 , 800 to one of the three establishment party , they be not entitle to a place in the House of Lords . if they have give more than £ 11 , 800 in the past to one of the three main UK establishment party , they naturally give up their place . rise — what be wrong with that ? maybe the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) will tell I , but first I give way to the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) . be the reason the hon . Gentleman ' s amendment refer only to the first three UK establishment party so that it do not affect his own party , now that it have fall to be the fourth large party in this place ? we do not put people in the House of Lords . if people want to give we a million pound , they can — please , if anyone be watch on tv , we could do with a million pound . sorry to disappoint anybody think about do that , because we can not give they a place in the House of Lords . I will give way one last time to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central , who I have give way to once already . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way again . I agree with he about the necessity for probity , ethic and transparency in politic , and I also enjoy his righteous speech in this place . obviously , he be a moral guide compass for we all , so will he now make a clear and unambiguous declaration that not a single person who have ever donate to the Scottish National party or serve as a Scottish National party Member of Parliament have ever be give a position in a publicly fund quango , or a publicly fund seat on a board , or be in receipt of any publicly fund donation ? obviously , I want to ensure that we aspire to the bar that the hon . Gentleman set . what I can say categorically to the hon . Gentleman be that there be nobody who have give one single penny to the Scottish National party — [ interruption . ] again , I appeal to people watch , if they want to give we money , please do so , but one thing we can never do — we never have and never will — be , in return , offer a place in our legislature or the ability to govern in this country . we do not do that , we can not do that and we will never , ever do that . let I point to the scale of the difficulty of the problem when it come to the donor . some 68 out of 284 nomination from political party between 2013 and 2023 be for political donor who have hand over £ 58 million to one of the three main party . over the course of that decade , some 12 of they give £ 1 million . now that might sound familiar to some Labour Members — £ 1 million be what people use to give to the Labour party under Tony Blair in the early 2000s to get a place in the House of Lords . come on ! where be inflation when it come to this ? we would expect it to cost £ 1 . 5 million to get a place in the House of Lords now , but the go rate be seemingly still about £ 1 million . cash for honour be a disaster for Labour . it be absolutely awful . we see the spectacle of a sit Prime Minister be interview by the police about the donation that be be give to the Labour party . those donation be interpret as inducement to secure a place in the House of Lords . the Prime Minister be interview under caution and two of his personal staff be arrest . after that experience , we would be right to expect some sort of clarity in their thinking to take place . they could have decide never to get into that type of territory again — that they would do everything possible to ensure that money be take out of politic , so that there would never be a whiff of suspicion that such a thing would happen again . but not a bit of it . donor still go into the House of Lords , money still go into the political party , and the public want it stop . I be extremely grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . I intervene merely to say this : many people might assume that he be be foolish for raise issue of financial shenanigan , mismanagement , conceal money , bribe and so on , but I think that he be just be brave . just as a matter of record , I want it to be know by the whole House that this man be not a fool ; he be a very courageous man . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that . I will never again chastise he for quote Proust in the House of Commons . I be sorry that I do that to he last time around . that cover the donor . the other amendment that I manage to get include — again , this be a surprise to I — be one relate to crony . it would deny the Prime Minister the power to appoint people to the House of Lords . the Prime Minister have a prerogative that be almost unknown to any other western industrial leader — that he be exclusively responsible for appoint so many people to one part of our legislature . I think that something like 30 % to 40 % of the total membership of the House of Lords have now be appoint by a Prime Minister — by one man . that would make a tinpot dictator in a banana republic blush . he would want those power in his hand immediately , but we have they in the United Kingdom . we allow a Prime Minister to determine — on his own — so many people in our legislature . that must come to an end . of course , the temptation for the Prime Minister be to appoint his friend , to reward those who have be deny a place , to compensate people for lose their position , to encourage people to take a role , but mainly it be to make sure that the donor be reward . I think we can all pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for his genius in craft amendment ; he have be very innovative . if we see the House of Lords Appointments Commission be put on a statutory and independent footing , that would go a considerable way towards deal with that concern . be that something that his party might consider support ? if that come up for a vote this evening , we would support it . that be one way forward . it certainly would deal with some of the more egregious power that the Prime Minister have . I think that people across this country forget that our Prime Minister have this power — that he have this prerogative to singlehandedly design our legislature . the more that people learn about some of these issue the well . the one in seven who currently support these arrangement will fall to one in 70 , because the place be an absurd embarrassment — by the way that it do business , by the way that it be allow to set its membership and by the way that it present itself to the world . we have an opportunity this evening to improve , deal with and get some sort of solution to what this country do on a democratic basis , but the Government be not grab it — they be not even prepared to kick out the bloody bishop , for goodness ' sake . how on earth , in 2024 , can we be in situation where we have bishop legislate in a modern , advanced , industrial democracy ? it be beyond a joke . we be remove the hereditarie , and those on the Government Front Bench be right : there be no great objection to the hereditarie be remove . I do not even sense much of a defence from some of our crustiest , old colleague , who be sit next to I ; they half - heartedly feel that they have to do it for their pal , but they be not sincere and they do not really mean it . they know that time be up for the hereditarie , and quite rightly so — it be absurd that they be still a feature of our democracy in 2024 . after this , the bishop be go to stand out like a sore thumb in a cassock . they will be the one on the frontline when it come to the ridicule . I have a little suggestion for my friend , the cleric down the corridor : how about stick to their ministry ? it be not as if they be without a whole range of issue just now . would they not be well deploy deal with some of the thing that we have see in the news over the course of the past few day , instead of concern themselves with attempt to run our country ? we live in a multi - faith and no - faith complex democracy , where so few people actually attend their church . this historic remnant from medieval time — that we have to have bishop in the House of Lords — be totally absurd . I will be support the new clause on this subject in the name of the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge . in fact , they be only in his name because he beat I to the Table Office when I be try to remove the class of bishop through the many amendment that I table . the last amendment that I manage to table be a bit more trivial , but they address something that I think we still have to consider : the idea that former member of Parliament should automatically expect a place in the House of Lords . we all know what it be like , don ' t we ? towards the end of a Parliament , we all ask each other — well , no one ask I — " be you go to get a place in the House of Lords , then , for stand down ? " , and some say , " Ooh , I think so , I think so . " there be always that tap on the shoulder for the parliamentarian who may be in the autumn of his or her career : " we ' d like you to do the right thing , colleague . would you mind think about stand down ? we ' ve get a new youthful , more energetic colleague , who would be a bit more helpful to the Prime Minister . we ' ll make sure you ' re all right ; there ' s a place in the House of Lords wait for you . " how about end that ? it be a feature that the public particularly loathe and despair of , and it be just not right . if colleague want to continue to have a place in our legislature , they should stand for election . that be what most parliamentarian across the world do . do not expect a place in the House of Lords . I have table new clause 13 , which would deal with the issue . it state quite clearly that no one should be give a place in the House of Lords if they have serve as a Member of Parliament in the current or last Parliament . I think that be fair and I encourage the Government to think about it as the Bill go forward . I will not be support the amendment table by those on the Conservative Front Bench . I do not suppose that they would expect I to do so . I do not even understand they , and I do not think that they really understand they either . the Opposition seem to be encourage the Government to move quick when it come to House of Lords reform , and at the same time they be tell the Government that they be go too far . I will let the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who be on the Front Bench , explain exactly what they be try to achieve , because I be have real difficulty follow . I will support the Liberals Democrats ’ amendment , as I think they make a reasonable stab , but I say ever so gently to my liberal colleague that they have more place in the House of Lords per capita than any other political party in this place , so if they be serious about develop the House of Lords , why do they not just stop appoint people ? that might have an impact — because all this mealy - mouthed , silly reform be not do anything . I will finish on this point : this be our only chance . there will not be any more House of Lords reform , regardless of what the Government say , and I know that they have say something to their Back Benchers to encourage they to come along today and tell we that there be further reform to come . there will not be further reform . all of we have see this before . there be colleague on the conservative Benches who have see this , be there and get the t - shirt — and that t - shirt say , " no more Lords reform in this Parliament . " that be what happen . I be very grateful to the hon . member for give way , although perhaps less so now that I realise I have put myself in his sight . look back to the 1999 law , it be tempting to be jade — especially for member who be here then — and to think no more reform be come . do he accept , however , that many Labour Members , include almost all those present today , be brand - new and can not be compare with that 1999 cohort ? we be prepared to make further reform in this Parliament — after all , the public vote for change , and we be here to deliver it . I will hold the hon . gentleman to his word and hope that he be successful in ensure that it be hear by his Front Benchers . I will also say to he — and I do not mean this with any great disrespect — that I have never see a more malleable set of Back Benchers than the new Labour Members . they do everything that they be bid — the way they read out the crib sheet from the whip be absolutely magnificent . I have not see a great deal of rebellion from the Labour Back Benchers , but maybe he will show the way and ensure that something happen . I suspect that this will be our last opportunity to consider the matter in this Parliament , because it will get punt into the wait long grass . the person I feel most sorry for be Gordon Brown . I think he actually feel that he be go to be listen to this time , and that Labour be sincere about take forward his agenda . after the scottish independence referendum , we be promise almost - federalism , but instead our Parliament be get attack day by day , Government by Government , Back Bencher by Back Bencher . let we see if we can get back to that almost - federalism . let we see if we can get a degree of ambition from this Government . it might be — I certainly hope so — that their Back Benchers will hold they to account , and in we they will have willing ally in achieve that . this be an absolute mouse of a Bill , but it could be make well by vote for and pass my amendment . I encourage the House to do so . rise — if there be nobody else from the Government Benches , I call — rise — — Richard Baker . it have be a long afternoon , Madam Chair . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship . may I say how much I enjoy , as I always do , the witty and skilful speech of the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) ? he have perhaps fire an early starting gun on his own campaign for election to an elect second Chamber , give that the tap on shoulder will not come for he — although his party will have to do somewhat well if he be to stand a good chance , give that he be here on his own . he speak about donation for peerage . we can only wonder what the SNP would do with a £ 1 million donation , but perhaps Police Scotland know by now , give their investigation into such matter . we have also speak about the delivery of constitutional reform . the point that I make to the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire be that Labour have be deliver on constitutional reform . I serve in Holyrood for three term : for all the talk of the Scottish National party about reform , that Chamber be in great need of constitutional reform , but nothing have happen at all on that , while in this place , we be bring forward a significant and important piece of constitutional reform within our first five month in government . I absolutely agree that we want a fast pace of constitutional reform in this Parliament , but let we be clear about the proposal before we . in 1997 , we set out — as an initial self - contain reform that be not dependent on further reform — that the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords would be end by statute . that be what we be here to deliver this evening . of course , it be long overdue , as the Minister say , and that be why we have introduce the legislation so early in this Government . it be also important that this reform be a stand - alone one , so we can progress it with the utmost urgency . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) be absolutely right that by take this Bill forward as a stand - alone reform , we give it the good chance of progress quickly , which be what we need it to do . my hon . friend be make an excellent point . return to the substance of today ' s debate , surely there should be agreement across the House that this reform be very long overdue , as my hon . friend be explain clearly and succinctly to colleague . I hope that people will be mindful of that and ignore some of the more outlandish suggestion make by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . this be a fundamental issue of principle . it be important that we in this House recognise that the presence of the hereditary principle within our second Chamber be outdated and indefensible . as other member on the Government Benches have rightly point out , the UK be one of only two country that still have a hereditary element in its legislature . it be not before time that we be consider this legislation . the hon . Gentleman be make an important point about how difficult it be to defend the hereditary principle for legislator , but how do he go about defend the principle of english bishop be legislator in Glenrothes and Mid Fife ? we do actually have a former moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in the House of Lords . I very much enjoy the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech — his point be make very passionately and with great conviction — but his party be in government as a majority Government for many year , and it do nothing on that issue . my hon . friend make an excellent point : not only be the Conservatives a majority government in this place , they have a plurality in the other place , so they be unfettered . do my hon . friend accept that , while the argument of the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) may be well - mean , bolt a non - manifesto commitment on to a manifesto commitment risk derail a Bill that have already be all but agree under the Salisbury convention at the Dispatch Box by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , and therefore risk lose all form of reform that we be offer ? my hon . friend make an excellent point — I could not agree more . it risk derail the Bill and the potential to make urgent progress on this particular issue , which it be so important that we as a House deal with this evening . as other member have say — I want to make this point very clearly — this reform be about principle , not about personality . in my own career before take up my seat in this House , I receive the support and assistance of hereditary member of the House of Lords in many campaign on a whole range of matter of public policy , and I value that support . since my election , I have have the opportunity to speak with hereditary peer who have bring significant experience to the House of Lords , who have be diligent and committed , and who have greatly value their role in the House . nevertheless , it be clearly the case that in advance of further reform , membership of the House of Lords should be base on experience and expertise , not birthright . the fact that there be still no female hereditary peer be another example of how that approach to membership of the House of Lords can not align with what I believe should be the share goal of make the House more inclusive and representative of wide society . early in the debate , we hear some contribution suggest that pass this Bill would somehow jeopardise the work of the House of Lords or reduce its effectiveness . there will still be over 700 peer leave , so I do not think we be in danger of a shortage of peer in this Parliament . I believe that this reform must be take forward now , and have recently join the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , I look forward to further deliberation on reform of our second chamber . turn again to the speech make by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , I be pleased to hear he laud Gordon Brown — that have not always be the case in speech he have make . Gordon Brown ' s leadership of the Commission on the UK ' s Future , establish by the Labour party in opposition , be a vital contribution to the debate on how we take forward the constitutional arrangement for government in our country . the commission ' s report absolutely need to be an active document in this Parliament , discuss in this Chamber and I hope by the Select Committee that I have just join , when we look forward to the future of our constitutional arrangement . the report be right to set out the proposal for a council of nation and region . it show also the necessity for reform in regard to hereditary peer , and why those wide reform of the House of Lords will be important in relation to public confidence in our institution of government . the report highlight research show that 71 % of people in the UK back overhaul the House of Lords . that support cut across all party , nation and region : nearly half the british public think that the Lords do not work well . support for the current composition of the second Chamber be report by the commission at just 12 % . I believe my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) have record even low level in other research . it just show why this reform be desperately require if we be to attain confidence in our second Chamber . analysis show that a majority of member of the House of Lords be base in London and the south - east . if we want to increase confidence in this Parliament , in Westminster , that issue must be address , along with further devolution to other part of the United Kingdom and the nation of the United Kingdom . a second Chamber whose membership be far more reflective of all the nation and region of the UK can only help generate great confidence in our legislature in every part of the country . interestingly , the hon . Gentleman cite the Gordon Brown study , which one of Gordon Brown ' s ally tell I have just go too far and therefore be not acceptable to the Labour Front Bench . but on the issue of representation in the Lords from far away and from less - advantaged people , to achieve the sort of balance that he describe you would have to salary the Lords , would you not ? it be very hard to provide for a second home or accommodation in London on £ 300 a day . there be many way to achieve the balanced representation that I have speak about . the right hon . Gentleman have show that he be passionate on these issue too . I hope that he would participate in further debate , which will go much more broadly into the issue of reform of the second Chamber . I be sure that we will have opportunity to have such debate and discussion over the next five year . regrettably , we must also reflect on why confidence in the second Chamber be so low . why have people lose faith in the second Chamber ? I have to say that it be because of the action of the previous Government , which so traduce and blight the reputation of the second House that this reform — and other — be desperately need . public confidence be crucial . too often , despite the good effort of the Speaker , the member of this House and of the other House , and the parliamentary authority , our constituent feel detached and remote from their Parliament as a whole . I want my constituent in Glenrothes and Mid Fife , and all those we represent , to have confidence in this Parliament and our democratic structure as effective and connect to they and their community . I be sure that we all share that ambition . of course there be much furth to go , but I very much welcome the fact that we be finally address and conclude the issue of hereditary peer as member of the House of Lords . it be an important step in the journey of much - need reform of our second Chamber . the Labour party promise immediate reform of the House of Lords in its manifesto and set out several step that it would take . however , the Government have introduce just one of those step — the step that be most politically convenient for they . be it a coincidence that their proposal would remove 84 hereditarie who do not take the Labour Whip ? they seem reluctant to take the other step . very few Government Members seem to want the 26 bishop to stay , but perhaps their remain be convenient because when the bishop turn up , they vote with the Labour party more often than not . I object to the Bill because I have a genuine fear that there be no second stage . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) be right : it will be this Bill and nothing else for the rest of the Parliament . Labour Members will wait in vain for the second stage . that be what happen when the Blair Government try to reform the House of Lords . they ensure that the 92 hereditarie remain as a permanent reminder of the need for proper reform . now the Government be remove the hereditarie , but not make clear any time scale or further proposal . I therefore table amendment 24 and new clause 19 . I want to pause commencement of the Bill unless and until the Government introduce legislative proposal for second - stage reform . Amendment 25 , which my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) table , go one well than amendment 24 , so I be happy not to press my amendment and to vote instead for his . it provide a guarantee that proper reform will be introduce and an opportunity to reflect on the type of upper House we want . I believe that we should have a small upper House , which should be wholly or largely appoint . it should not act as a rival to this place . liberal Democrats who desire an elect second Chamber do not understand what they be let themselves in for . let we consider the United States , where the two chamber be sometimes command by different party and very little can happen . a country with an executive presidential system can get away with that , but a parliamentary democracy could not function with a Government with a majority in this Chamber permanently block by an elect upper House . my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) have table several amendment that help enact the Labour party ' s manifesto commitment : a retirement age , participation rate and other feature that would improve the upper House . I will vote for amendment 25 , which I commend to the cttee . last time we debate this issue , I talk about legitimacy , continuity and dignity , and nothing I have hear today refute the argument I make then . of course it be true that this House ' s authority be draw from the democratic legitimacy that enable each of we to speak for our constituent . we be choose by they and answerable to they . however , that be not the only form of legitimacy . when the Liberal Democrat spokesman offer her view on the subject , I be minded to ask , " where do you stand on the Head of State ? " our sovereign be choose by birth , not election . a Head of State be critical — at the apex of our constitution . as I point out on Second Reading , the Minister for the Cabinet Office , for whom I have great regard , as he know , be appoint by the monarch , as I be when I become a Minister . rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , who be edge towards the edge of his seat . I give his speech four out of 10 : two for energy , one for enthusiasm , and one for content . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that there be a clear distinction between have a monarch , who be a constitutional sovereign and who do not withhold Royal Assent through the legislative process , as oppose to hereditary peer , who be legislate in the other place on a daily basis ? I will try to be helpful to the hon . gentleman because he be a new member . we all learn something every day here , and when a member have be here for 27 year , unless we be entirely stupid we learn a great deal , so I have pick up one or two thing . the critical frailty in his argument be the difference between authority and influence . of course it be true that the King grant Royal Assent to the Bills that we pass and so they become act , but the very business of he grant Royal Assent reinforce his authority , and the fact that he have a personal audience with the Prime Minister on a weekly basis , which be more than the hon . Gentleman ever will and more than I do , suggest that his influence over our affair be considerably great than that of most of the people elect here . it be quite wrong to suggest that the monarch do not exercise political influence and thereby political authority . I also speak about continuity . the importance in our constitutional settlement of the continuation of the role of the House of Lords be that it provide a degree of continuity . member have talk about what be time - honour and cast that aside as though it do not matter . what be time - honour count because it have be hone by generation of people , not merely decide upon by one group of people at one point in time . I hear another speech which criticise birthright . if I stand here and say it be the birthright of every Briton that habeas corpus prevail , or if I say it be the birthright of every subject of this kingdom that they can speak and think and act freely , everyone would feel that it be entirely right and proper for I to make those pronouncement , yet birthright have be criticise in this Chamber as if it be nothing . the point be that the birthright the right hon . Gentleman describe be available to all of we , whereas the birthright we be talk about be restrict to very few people , some of whom have inherit they from a point that be literally in the history book and be so far back , and the contribution be so archaic now , that it really mean nothing . we have to be realistic about this , and that be why we be look at the hereditary peer first . some of the thing which we inherit by birth be indeed universal — universal in the sense that all briton enjoy they . they be not of course universal in the sense that those across the world enjoy they ; they would love to enjoy many of the freedom that we have earn over time due to those who come before we . as the hon . Lady say , these thing go right back . the evolution of our constitutional settlement be root in history and shape over time — it evolve . and it be right that the House of Lords evolve too , so I be not against Lords reform per se . there be a case , for example , for say that attendance matter in the House of Lords . we do not have an amendment to this effect , but it would be perfectly reasonable to agree that those appoint to the House of Lords as life peer who never attend or attend very rarely give up their right to do so . that would seem to I to be a perfectly reasonable and measured reform of the House of Lords , and it would cut the number dramatically , because although we be frequently tell the House of Lords have many hundred of member , those who regularly vote in Divisions tend to be draw from the same group on both side of that Chamber . there be sensible reform that could be make to the House of Lords , but this reform deliver neither in term of legitimacy , for it make the House of Lords no more democratic , nor in term of efficacy , because it make the House of Lords no more effective . one be tempt therefore to assume that it be prejudice dress with spite that lie behind this proposal , and I find that hard to believe give the high opinion that I have of the two Ministers sit on the Front Bench . rise — many of my new parliamentary opponent — I would never say enemy , of course — wish to intervene . I shall take they in order , with the Member on the right first . the right hon . Gentleman be keen to score my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) . he give he four out of 10 , and I think he be rather unfair . what would you give he ? significantly higher , let we put it that way — eight or nine , I would say . if I may , I suggest that I would give Opposition Members between seven and 10 out of 10 for be patronising . I do not mean to patronise the hon . member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) . I be be paternal or avuncular , rather than patronise , in how I deal with he . it be a know fact , prove by event , that I have tend to encourage new member to this House , perhaps to a great degree than many other senior member , and that include Members from across the House . one of the thing that one learn here — I speak about the learning curve we all face — be that the relationship that pervade across this House be as important as the relationship we form on our own Benches . I have be here a little while — seven year — and the right hon . Member have never encourage I , although he have scold I once or twice . he have talk about democracy and democratic reform on several occasion in his speech . democracy emanate from Athens and the greek republic . that be the origin of demo , and what do that mean ? it mean the common people . we be talk exactly about give common people the right to sit , not the uncommon people of the hereditary peerage . that be the point we be talk about . Demos mean universal right for everyone , not the select few . Ms Nokes , you will not allow I to go into immense detail about athenian democracy , although I do study ancient philosophy . the hon . Gentleman will know that athenian democracy be very far from the democratic principle that we hold dear . only citizen have the vote in Athens , and the assembly there be a very partial affair , and certainly it would satisfy neither you , Ms Nokes , nor other member . I will return to the subject in hand for a few moment before I give way to the hon . member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) . have make the case that the Bill do not afford great legitimacy or efficacy , I want to speak about the authority of this place , the authority of the constitution , and the authority of Government . the authority of this place , as the hon . member for Bolton West and other have argue , essentially derive from the fact that we be elect , but not just from that . it also derive in part from the balance in the relationship between this House and the other place . bicameral system that pitch democratic chamber one against another be often less successful than the model that have evolve in this country . although the upper House sometimes chastise this House — it certainly scrutinise we — and although it might clash occasionally with this House in its role as a reform Chamber , in the end it defer to the elect House . a bicameral system bear of two Houses of Parliament , one of which be elect and one which be not , seem to I to be more desirable for that very reason : we do not have compete democratic legitimacy between the House of Commons and the House of Lords . that be why I disagree with the amendment in the name of some of my right hon . and hon . friend and with the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . the right hon . Gentleman be be generous with take intervention . I will boil it right down : this Government be elect on a mandate to remove the hereditary peer from the House of Lords , not to set up a wholly elect House and the concern he be talk about right now . do he support the Government ' s mandate and legitimacy to remove those hereditary peer ? the Government ' s mandate be for a more widespread reform of the House of Lords . I will not go into it again , but the manifesto of the victorious party at the general election , which now form the Government , suggest a whole range of measure to reform the House of Lords . I do not really approve of any of those measure . neither do I believe in an elect second Chamber , as I have make clear . I take the straightforward view that the system at the moment , for the most part , work pretty well . we could make reform — it would seem perfectly reasonable to look at how peer be appoint and we could look at the number of peer in the upper House , as I mention — but I do not really buy those reform . as far as mandate be concern , the Government certainly have a mandate to bring that package forward , but the official Opposition have a role in both counter that and ultimately oppose it . that be the nature of our parliamentary system . my goodness , if we vote for everything that the Labour Government bring forward from their manifesto , there would be no point in have an official Opposition of any kind . rise — I will give way one more time to the hon . Lady and give she a second bite of the cherry . I be grateful to the right hon . member for take the intervention . I struggle to understand what the conservative party ' s line be on the Bill . it would appear that he disagree with a number of his colleague . at the end of the day , how will Conservative Members vote ? that be a matter for those on the Front Bench . I see member of the Conservative Whips Office in their place and I see my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) sit behind the Dispatch Box . these day , I be merely a highly regarded , distinguished and senior Back Bencher . [ laughter . ] the day when I have any say in how the Conservative Opposition — or in previous time the Conservative Government — choose to vote in Divisions be go , but they be not go forever ; this be only a sojourn on the Back Benches . I want to make that perfectly clear . let I return to my principal theme , which be that of authority . the authority of this House be partly bear of its relationship with the other House . be the other House to become elect , its authority would by definition grow and our authority by comparison diminish , so I be strongly opposed to an elect second Chamber . while I accept the principled argument of the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire and other , it be not for I . there be also the matter of the authority of our constitution . our constitutional settlement , which we have rehearse briefly in the debate , be dependent on that relationship , but also — I think it be fair to say — on reform of this kind be measure . it might surprise member to hear that last night , I be look at a short book write by Hilaire Belloc and Chesterton . that book , which be available from the Library of the House , rehearse the argument that prevail at the time of the debate on the Parliament Act — it be then the Parliament Bill — in the House of Commons . it might surprise right hon . and hon . member to learn , as I learn last night , that when Asquith introduce those change — when the House of Lords reject Lloyd George ' s Budget and it become necessary to curb the power of that House — rather than rush to legislate , he set up a conference between both side of the House to determine a compromise . Belloc , as member will remember , be elect as a Liberal MP . he parody that process and say that what come out of it be no well than what go into it . none the less , it be an attempt , at least , to reach a settlement in a dignified way on how we might reform the second Chamber . [ interruption . ] it do take two election . it take the 1906 election , as the Paymaster General will know , when the Liberals triumph . I wonder whether he want to intervene on I to sharpen up the history . that particular constitutional convention do not produce a consensus . it take two general election in 1910 — one in January and one in December . that be precisely right . in the first general election , there be an assumption that the Government would proceed , but the constitutional conference do not produce an outcome that bring about a reform that both side could agree on . a further general election follow , and the right hon . Gentleman rehearse exactly what that short book describe . the point be that even Asquith at that time , who be determined to reform the House of Lords , feel that ideally that reform should be base on some kind of consensus , or at least a conversation about how that reform might happen and what shape it might take . that be important , because the authority of our constitution to some degree depend on its dignity . finally , I want to talk about the authority of Government . we have talk about mandate . it be long ago that the term " elective dictatorship " be first use . the nature of the relationship that I describe early between Government and Opposition and between different side of the Chamber be important to counter the risk of a Government with a very large majority ignore counter - argument and become — I hesitate to say corrupted — alter , change or distort by the scale of the majority . frankly , in this Parliament , the Labour party will be able to legislate as it choose at every turn . as experienced member of the House know , include those on the Treasury Bench , government be well when they need to compromise , reach agreement and consider amendment . when I be a Minister , many time in Bill Committees in particular , the shadow Minister would table an amendment . I would routinely and systematically have the argument and make sure that the amendment be vote down , but I would often go back to my civil servant and say , " I think that be rather a good argument . why aren ' t we do it ? I think he or she be right . we ought to alter the Bill . " I would engage with the shadow Minister privately and look at way in which we could improve the legislation through that kind of scrutiny . Good Ministers and good shadow Ministers always work in that way , as I do with the now Prime Minister when he shadow I as Security Minister . government need to understand that to alter their position through that kind of exchange and consideration improve the exercise of government and add to , rather than subtract from , the Government ' s authority . good government behave in a way that , rather than take advantage of their power , mitigate it by the choice that they make . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about the need to govern responsibly and reasonably , whatever one ' s majority . while I be sit here , I be interested in his record of follow through on that strong belief , so I google his name and " prorogation " , and I do not see any result . will the right hon . Gentleman perhaps reflect on any point when he think recent government might have abuse their power ? when I be a shadow Minister for many year , I find that some of the Labour Ministers I shadow do the job I just describe very well , and some do not . when I become a Minister , I see that some Conservative Ministers engage in the kind of process I have describe , and some do not . there have always be variability in the way that power have be exercise across political party . I invite the hon . Gentleman to speak to any of the people who shadow I when I be a Minister to see if they would validate how I describe the way I act in those day . the authority of Parliament , the authority of our constitution and the authority of Government be all at stake as we consider these matter . I return to where I start in term of efficacy . the last time we consider these matter , member will remember that I quote Proust . it be a bit too rich a diet for the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire . he be not a Proustian . I think it stretch the canon of his reading matter beyond break point . today , I be go to test he a little more and refer to G . k . Chesterton , who I think might be more within his scope . [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , he be acknowledge that . Chesterton say : " to have a right to do a thing be not at all the same as to be right in do it . " it be certainly true that , base on their mandate , the Government have the right to bring this legislation , but I be not sure that they be right in do it , measure against my test of dignity , legitimacy , continuity and authority . for as Chesterton also say , before you take a fence down , you consider why it be put up in the first place . the balance that exist at the moment , both within the House of Lords , and between the House of Lords and this House , be precious . it work . it ain ' t break and we don ' t need to fix it . before I finish , let I say this to my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar . we must vote against the Bill on Third Reading , because whether we be in favour of more reform — as some of my colleague be — or no reform , the Bill do not meet the standard we would expect of good legislation . it be therefore vital that the official opposition make their position crystal clear by oppose this undesirable and unnecessary legislation . for the record , when we talk about more reform , it be with a low case " r " . for many people , the other place in its current format embody what Britain really should not be : it be undemocratic , it be unelecte and — to touch on this only very lightly — it have have its fair share of controversial appointment . there be a suggestion of nepotism here and a dash of financial scandal there , not to mention a sprinkling of oligarchy . therefore , it represent what a classist society of have and have - not can produce . as we know , some member be there on a hereditary basis , and some be there on the whim and wish of political leader who , of course , have their own political motive for have they in position . it be also clear that the different region that make up the United Kingdom do not have fair representation . the other place do not just have a geographical imbalance , but a gender one — none of which I care for . I believe that there should be an upper Chamber . in Scotland , we have see some ill - thought - out political policy that have be financially costly . an upper Chamber would likely have prevent that with the benefit of add scrutiny . like british society , the other place need transformational change . what the Government propose be only a step in the right direction to what I , as a Labour party member , will continue to campaign for from within the party , which be ultimately to change the other place into an elect Chamber where class and privilege be not the entry requirement , but where talent and ability be what get you there . it be an honour to follow my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , such a well - love , distinguished and senior member — even if he have only serve 27 year in this House . I have sit through the whole debate and I do not intend to speak , but I just want to reply to a few comment . by its very nature , the debate have be confrontational — that be what we do in this place . we tend to concentrate on what divide we rather than on what unite we , and I want to say something about what might unite we . first of all , on the idea that divide we , we be debate whether to abolish the hereditarie . the Labour party say that it be in its manifesto and therefore it can do what it want . we say that that be gerrymander , that the bulk of these people be hardworke and that by nature they be Conservatives , so this be an excuse to get rid of a large number of conservative peer . the Government will carry on and do it anyway . that be clearly very controversial . the next proposal , it seem , be to abolish the bishop . I hear what be say by my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , but there be all sort of objection to do that , not least because this be an established church . do we really want to attack a faith community ? it be part of our history . be the bishop really do much harm in the House of Lords ? incidentally , because of our canon law , the catholic bishop do not want to be member of the House of Lords anyway , although they be apparently quite willing to support distinguished layman to help the Catholic cause there — but we all know that . I do not think that we will ever reach an agreement on abolish the bishop in the House of Lords . we have have the debate about age , and again we can not agree . as I say early , there be many people up there who make a tremendous contribution in their 80 . the Prime Minister have appoint to the Lords a distinguished former Foreign Secretary and a former Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , both of whom be 80 , and he presumably do that not think they would have to retire immediately . so there be no consensus on age , and there be also no consensus on whether the other House should be elect . we have have this debate for 120 year . some people , for instance in the Liberal party , say that it would be ridiculous to have an appoint Parliament , and that the only proper way of do this be to have elect people in the Lords , and then we remind they that that would just lead to gridlock . this be a parliamentary democracy , not a presidential system . so there be no consensus on any of those issue . however — and this be the point that I really want to make — there be consensus on one issue , namely that the House of Lords be too large . it have , I believe , 805 member , which make it the second large Chamber in the world , after the supreme parliament of the People ' s Republic of China . in view of that consensus , we should perhaps reduce its size , and there be surely a simple way of do that . give that , apparently , 150 member of the House of Lords be not particularly interested in turn up very often , or even at all in some instance , why do we not simply ask all the different group — hereditarie , bishop and life peer — and all the different party to reduce their membership by a similar percentage , so that there can be no accusation of gerrymandering , and reduce the size of the House of Lords to about 600 member ? that could be do very simply , give that so many people be quite happy to have a peerage but do not want to turn up . it could do by election , but those group themselves could decide rather than the Government , and there would be no question of gerrymandering . they know who work hard , and they know who turn up . there would probably be no need for an election . through that simple device , we could reduce the size of the House of Lords to about 600 . we could do it immediately , and we could ensure that all the people who should not be there , who be appoint for the wrong reason , would leave the place . we could do that very simply and easily . we could do it by consensus , and we could also beef up the House of Lords Appointments Commission . at present it can reject someone on ground of propriety , but it can not do so on ground of suitability . beef up its power would ensure that only the very good people be appoint to the House of Lords , those with experience who could make a proper contribution . let I add , just to please my friend the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , that there be no question of appoint donor and crony to the other place . those two simple reform could solve the problem . we have hear about constitutional conference in the past . may I suggest to the Paymaster General , whom I respect greatly , that it might not be a bad idea for the political leadership of all our party to sit down together and organise such reform to reduce the size of the House of Lords to about 600 ? do we want to appoint people for life ? why do we not just appoint they for 15 year , so that when they have do those 15 year they retire at the next general election ? all those idea be very moderate and sensible , and if we could secure consensus on they , we could reduce the size of the House of Lords , get rid of the bad apple , and achieve what we want to achieve . do the Father of the House agree that inevitably , give the nature of the Bill , we have be talk more about the process by which people become member of the House of Lords than about the activity that it carry out ? in particular , although not everyone in the House of Lords be an expert , a large number of they be : people who have reach the top of their respective profession , whether those profession be academia , the law , the art or the judiciary . can the Father of the House cast his mind back to 1984 , when he and I , have both fight the 1983 general election — he stand in Gainsborough and Horncastle , which be why he be in the House ; and I stand in Swansea West , which be why I be not — co - operate on try to have postal ballot for trade union election ? do he remember that he introduce a Bill that get nowhere in this House , because of the strong whipping system of elect member , but when we take it to the House of Lords we be able to persuade people on the argument because of the light whipping ? the amendment go through , and when the Bill come back to the Commons the then Government bring in their own measure to meet the point . do he agree that , apart from create gridlock , an elect second Chamber would not have the possibility of introduce fresh idea that , once introduce , may be accept by a Government in this place , but which would never get off the starting block if they be introduce in this place initially ? that be a very good point . I remember that rebellion very well — it be the start of my many rebellion . I suggest to Labour Members that they should not rebel if they want get on in this place . we have a rebellion and finally win on that issue , and my right hon . friend make a very good point about how we win the argument . that underline how important it be to have a second Chamber that be not compose of elect politician . I really do not see the point of elect politician to a second Chamber , because it would just be like this place : full of people who want to become Ministers and who be completely subordinate to the Whips . what be the point of have an elect second Chamber ? the whole point of a second Chamber be that it should be independent - minded , and the Lords be independent - minded . they regularly defeat the Government , and they actually have well debate than we do . the House of Lords be full of people who have tremendous experience in the profession , business and charity . I just do not see the point of get rid of they lock , stock and barrel , but there be a perfectly good consensual argument that the number should be reduce . there be some people in the Lords whom we should remove either because they have not be appoint in an entirely right way or because they do not turn up . far to the point make by my right hon . friend , Bagehot speak about this issue . he say that the distinguish feature of the House of Lords be that its Members ' view be emphatically their own view . in his term , they be not subject to social bribe , by which he mean that they be not answerable to constituent in the way we be , so they can make judgment entirely free of that pressure . that be a virtue of the current arrangement and , frankly , a virtue of the hereditary peerage too . I think we can all agree that the other place , for all that it be seemingly undemocratic , work quite well . the Lords actually listen to debate , and they vote accord to their conscience . they regularly defeat the Government , and they improve Bills again and again . if it work , why change it ? will the Paymaster General please think about the idea that I have suggest ? we could get some sort of compromise by which all party in the House of Lords be reduce by the same amount . we could reduce the Lords to around 600 member , give more power to the House of Lords Appointments Commission and , in future , keep the number at about 600 . I be very much attract to the argument lay out by the Father of the House . he be right to say that consensus in these sort of matter be nigh on impossible , as poor Jack Straw find out in 2007 . the Father of the House be also right to aim for a reductionist strategy in try to decide what we can do to improve the situation . that will get a majority consensus in this House , difficult though census most certainly be in these matter . this debate have be characterise by some levity , which be okay — it be positive . it probably reflect the fact that most of our constituent be not usually seize by constitutional matter , which be not to say that such matter be not important , because plainly they be . the attendance here today be not what one might expect for a matter of this importance . that probably reflect the fact that when we be all knock on door a few month ago , this kind of thing really be not no . 1 among people ' s concern , but it remain important nevertheless . I confess that I have be on something of a journey since 2007 , at which time I be persuade that the upper House ought to be elect . I be not any more , because I have see in the working of this place how it be possible for this place ultimately to be challenge by a subordinate secondary Chamber that be itself elect . try as I might , I can not work out how it be possible to avoid that kind of situation . this be the primary part of our legislature , and that must remain the case . we must be unchallenged , but we need check and balance , which be precisely what the upper House aim to provide . many have speak today about who we might remove from the upper House . I have no objection in principle to the thing that the Government be try to do , but I be persuade that matter of this sort should be part of a wide package , which be why I will be support the Opposition amendment today . however , my view be that we have probably get this round the wrong way , which be why I very much support the amendment be bring forward by my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) in relation to the bishop . I remember when I be pontificate in another country — a majority muslim country that be a nascent democracy — on democracy . at the end of my spiel , a lady put up her hand and , to her great credit , say , " I have listen very carefully to what you have say , but with the great of respect , who be you to come here and lecture we , give that you have within your legislature people who be there by dint of hereditary right and people who be there because they be part of a particular religious persuasion ? " we have hear some quote today , include from G . k . Chesterton . I be not sure whether I can match that , but I think I probably can . Robert Burns say : " o wad some Pow ' r the giftie gie we to see oursel as ither see we ! " I like that . he be say that it be important to note how we appear to other people , other country and other legislature , and it seem to I that that lady , all those year ago , have the measure of it . we may not think we be a theocracy in the same way as Iran be , or that we retain the hereditary principle in the same way as Lesotho or Swaziland do , but we be and we do . we need to remedy that , because appearance matter and that lady be absolutely right . that be why I support my right hon . friend ' s amendment , and I hope that the Government will reflect on that . I also agree with the assertion of the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) that this be it , and that it be no good hope for another Bill . that Bill be not go to come . if it do , there be no guarantee that it will not end up in the same place as poor Jack Straw ' s measure end up in 2007 . give the difficulty with consensus , I suspect that that be exactly where such a measure would land . so this be it . I do not particularly want to see our legislature populate by people who be there because they be representative of one particular faith community in this country . I be an Anglican , just like my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge . I be a practise anglican and I value the view of bishop — of course I do — but it be simply not right to have they be politician in dog collar generally propagate a left liberal world view . I would much rather that they be in their diocese engage in the cure of soul . that be where I , as an Anglican , want to see they . I will certainly support my Front Bench ' s measure amendment this evening . I very much hope that the Government have be listen carefully to what have be say . these grave , serious matter need to be debate in a careful and measure way . I see virtue not in plough ahead with the Bill as an emergency but in incorporate it into a wide set of proposal at a later stage , although hopefully not too late , so that we can consider these thing in the round . I hope we will be able to see those proposal before too long . I live in hope . the Labour party have have 14 year to consider all of this . my view be that this Bill will be it . that be disappointing and a miss opportunity . it be not my original intention to speak but , give the nature of the debate , and in view of the signal I have receive that I might be give a little latitude to go slightly wide than the narrow term of the Bill , I will make a single point to elaborate slightly on the intervention I make upon the Father of the House a few minute ago . a lot have be say about how the public be deem to regard the status of the upper House . I be not sure on what basis such sweeping statement have be make , although I can understand that when , from time to time , someone manifestly unfit or inappropriate to be ennoble be ennoble , it may cause a degree of public concern and disillusionment . new Members on both side of the Committee , but particularly on the Government side , should avail themselves of the opportunity to understand more closely what the House of Lords can do that the House of Commons can not . in the first instance , peer can bring their expertise to bear . that be not to say that all peer be expert — they be not — but a lot of they be , because they have reach the top of their profession . they be not necessarily any bright , more intelligent or more cultured than member of this House , but as we choose to divert ourselves from whatever escalator we could have be on , in order to become full - time politician , we do not reach the giddy height of those in other profession , who be then able to bring their expertise to bear on the legislative process by be take into the upper House . I appreciate that the right hon . Gentleman be not a doctor , but could he explain the biological process by which someone inherit expertise ? I be not aware that anything I have say this afternoon have be in favour of retain the hereditarie . it have not . if the hon . Gentleman have listen to my early intervention , he would have know that be the case . that be why I say I be go somewhat wide than this Bill , which focus solely on the hereditarie . the suggestion that the upper House stand in low repute be ill - conceived , and I urge the hon . Gentleman and other new member to take advantage of the seminar that Labour and Liberal Democrat Members and I try to organise to enable new member from all party to be bring into contact with lead member of the upper House , to see what they do . that would be a good use of his and other Members ' time . my right hon . friend be make an important point about the subtlety of the relationship between the two Houses . I speak early about the relationship between the Government and the opposition . in an unwritten constitution , political culture prevail , and that political culture be inform by that subtlety and by those relationship . my right hon . friend describe an occasion when legislation emanate from an origin in the other place , but very often legislation be improve and perfect through that connection . that should not be lose as we rush headlong into a piecemeal reform of the House of Lords . the element that make up the House of Lords consist of different group of people : some have get there by accident of birth and be now go to leave ; some have get there as the result of political horse - trading of some sort , and perhaps should not have be put there in the first place ; but a great many have get there , as I say early , by have reach the height of their various profession and have prove themselves to be outstanding intellectual who can bring a level of specialisation to the scrutiny of legislation . even if we in this House be on exactly their same level of accumulate knowledge , we can not bring that same level of scrutiny because of the demand we face on our time and in look after our constituent , which inevitably work to the cost of the amount of attention we could give purely to focus on improve legislation . I wish to place on record that the reason why I become an ardent advocate of an unelected second Chamber — and why I would rather have no second Chamber at all than two elect Chambers — be precisely that it be impossible to whip such a Chamber to prevent people with good idea from persuade peer of the virtue of those idea . member of an unelected second Chamber be able to have at least a sporting chance of amend legislation in good way that would not get beyond first base in this House , because the elect Members , for the most part , almost all the time , obey the whipping . before I be an MP , when I be a political activist , I and my colleague manage to get four piece of legislation into law . since I have be an MP , I have get only one , on the privacy of Members ’ home address , on to the statute book , because , exceptionally , that be a free vote . how many free vote happen in this House ? hardly any . the equivalent of free vote in the upper House happen all the time . we require postal ballot for trade union election , which be incorporate into the Trade Union Act 1984 and the Employment Act 1988 . we outlaw political indoctrination in school , which be incorporate into the Education Act 1986 and carry forward in the Education Act 1996 . we prohibit local council from publishing material that " promote or oppose a point of view on a question of political controversy which be identifiable as the view of one political party and not of another " , which be incorporate into section 27 of the Local Government Act 1988 . finally , we more strictly define the concept of " due impartiality " in the coverage of politically contentious issue on television and radio , which be incorporate into the Broadcasting Act 1990 . every one of those measure be get through the House of Lords first , and then either adopt in the House of Commons directly or bring forward by the Government in their alternative proposal . we do away with the expertise of the House of Lords at our peril . all we will be leave with be machine politician , whether they be in one elect House or two elect Houses , and that be to the detriment of our democracy , not to its enhancement . thank you for call I to speak , Madam Chair . I be honour to serve under your chairmanship . before I begin my prepared remark , I wish to commend and pay tribute to right hon . and hon . member across the House for their skill of oratory and persuasion and their education and ability to entertain . it have be an absolute privilege to hear member with such experience speak , so well - inform be they on such topic . I also wish to speak to new Labour Members who , like I , be find their foot and learn the way of the world in this place . I be pleased to hear that they be passionate about push and challenge their party to implement the law and change that the constituent and the country demand . but I remind they of the consequence of that . rebellion , as I have see in this short time , be reward with sanction or suspension , so it be well to get as much as possible into this Bill now than to hope that they may ever get a chance to do so again . the House have be make aware that faith in political party and institution be at a low ebb — perhaps the low in my lifetime . we have be tell that only 12 % of the british public say that they trust politician ; political party be the least trust of any UK public institution , and trust in Parliament be on the decline . any measure that help to rebuild that trust be to be support , which be why I support this Government Bill to remove hereditary peer . the anachronistic nature of hereditary peerage contribute to the sense not only that the House of Lords be out of touch , but that all our political institution be out of touch . it feed a disconnect between the people and their system of governance and reinforce a belief that politic be the preserve of another elite , the political elite , that live in its own bubble in Westminster . give this urgency to rebuild faith in politic and the need for radical change to that end , it be disappointing that the Government have choose to be so timid in their ambition . I understand that further change could be introduce far down the road . indeed , hon . member have say that they will try to push for more change . for instance , perhaps they could remove the over - 80 from the Lords , or retire the 26 bishop who be automatically give a seat . the Lords themselves have raise the idea of remove those member who rarely , if ever , attend . but even these tame reform appear to be too much for this Government at this stage . we need much bold action . I thank the hon . member for give way . do he accept that this be the first immediate measure of modernisation of the other House and that there be a number of other commitment that be enshrine in the manifesto of this Government , which will be see to in due course in this Parliament ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I agree that the Bill be a positive step , but it be the small of the step that could have be take by this Government . as we all know in this place , the promise of jam tomorrow be just a promise and hardly ever materialise . we need much bold action now . it be bad enough that we be alone in Europe in have a fully unelected second Chamber . it be frankly ridiculous that , with more than 800 member , it be so large . I will put that into some perspective : the US Senate have 100 elect member , who serve a six - year term , and a third of the membership be elect every two year ; the canadian Senate have 105 member and a mandatory retirement age of 75 ; and the french Senate have 348 elect member , who serve six - year term , half of whom be up for election every three year . the fact that our second Chamber have be allow to balloon out of all proportion look more sinister when we consider that last year Lords appointee donate over £ 50 million to political party . when it look like our political institution be up for grab to the high bidder , with job for life , be it any wonder that people see it as another private member ' club ? I welcome the amendment that examine alternative model to the House of Lords . it be not difficult to imagine how we can improve on it : there should be no place for big party donor in any second Chamber ; it should have a fix membership ; the public should decide who have the right to populate it and be able to hold the member accountable ; and it should genuinely reflect the length and breadth of our country , unlike the current House of Lords , which be dominate by peer from the south and south - east . the hon . Gentleman seem to be make a case for an elect second Chamber . do he imagine that that Chamber would be elect at the same time as this one , in which case it would be a duplicate because the electorate be very unlikely to vote in different way on the same day , or be he suggest that it would be elect at a different time , in which case the Chamber that be elect most recently would surely claim great legitimacy and therefore great authority ? the right hon . Member make a very important point . I , as a new Member of Parliament , be not educate or inform enough to answer it immediately , and I would defer to the House to define how that process would work . I be listen with the great of respect and interest to the hon . member . do he think that there would be virtue and merit in have a unicameral system , a bit like the plan b suggest by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , rather than have a compete elect upper House — because this be the primary Chamber in our system ? again , I will confess to my lack of knowledge on the detail around the alternative propose by the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . I would defer to the House to select an appropriate working model that well represent the people of our country . the hon . Member make a powerful point about listen and have the good system . however , do he agree that have all the power locate in one Chamber and not have a division of power — as exist in other country — be an idea with merit , which should be look at ? the principle of sovereignty , of course , differ between english law and Scots law , and therefore we need to have a good and proper look at our governance mechanism . that be a very important point . I agree that representation across the four nation be key , and that the balance between the two Houses and how they work together be also very important . we have see what happen when people feel alienated from their political system : they can gravitate to those with divisive answer . unaddressed political grievance combine with a lack of faith in political institution can be a toxic combination . reform the House of Lords so that it be fit and proper be not the sole solution to that problem , but be a key part of the solution . we in this House , as elect official , have a duty to do the right thing at the right time in the right way to deliver the right outcome for our constituent and our country , and the right thing be to adopt the sensible and democratic amendment that have be table , and the right time to do that be now . I call the Minister . thank you , Madam Chair . I be grateful to right hon . and hon . member for take the time to debate these issue in Committee , and I have listen to their contribution with interest . I be particularly grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , as well as to other Labour Members , for provide a powerful voice in support of this important legislation . I be grateful to the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , who demonstrate on Second Reading that there be strong cross - party support for this first step in reform the upper Chamber . I be also grateful to the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , who have take a surprising interest in these issue , and to the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . I stress that we be grateful to all peer , include hereditary peer , who have commit themselves to valuable public service . I reiterate that there be no block to hereditary peer come back as life peer if their party wish to nominate they . what have become clear during the course of this debate be that the Conservatives do not have a coherent position on House of Lords reform . it be not clear whether the Opposition Front Benchers want to retain hereditary peer ; it be not clear whether they want fast and further reform ; and it be not clear whether they agree with the amendment table by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge . but what be clear be that they can not agree among themselves about the Bill — more division and chaos . the Minister will be aware that it have be over 100 year since Keir Hardie commit to abolish the House of Lords so , to be clear , will we have to wait another 100 year for the Labour party to get around to it ? we have take an immediate first step , as set out in our manifesto , to remove hereditary peer from the House of Lords . the hon . Member will know well that there be a number of other commitment in our manifesto , and we be consider the good way to implement they . it be right that we take the time to do that properly . I will address the amendment . new clause 20 , table by the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , seek to provide a description of the purpose of the Bill . the Government can not accept his new clause . his explanatory statement say : " this new clause describe the purpose of the Bill . " for his benefit , I be happy to clarify the purpose of the Bill , which should be self - evident to anyone who have take the time to read it . the Bill be design to remove the outdated and indefensible right for hereditary peer to sit and vote in the upper Chamber . in 2024 , no place in our legislature should be reserve for individual who be bear into certain family . I add that his new clause fail to take into account the presence of the Law Lords . several such peer sit in the other place , and make a valuable contribution to its proceeding , as member of the Lords Temporal under the Appellate Jurisdiction Act 1876 . his new clause therefore fall at the first hurdle , and I respectfully ask he not to press it to a Division . Amendment 25 , also table by the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar , seek to delay the Bill ' s implementation . delay its implementation go against the Government ' s manifesto commitment . we be clear that we would implement immediate reform to the second Chamber by remove the outdated and indefensible right for hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . the Government set out in our manifesto a number of other commitment to reform the other place , and it be right that we take the time to consider how good to implement they . I therefore ask the hon . member not to press the new clause to a Division . amendment 8 and 9 , and new clause 7 , which be table by the hon . member for Richmond Park , seek to impose a statutory duty on the Government to take forward proposal to secure a democratic mandate for the House of Lords via the introduction of democratically elect member . although the Government agree with the hon . member that the second Chamber need reform , we can not accept this amendment . this be a focused Bill that deliver the Government ' s manifesto commitment to bring about an immediate reform by remove the right of the remain hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . the Government have commit to more fundamental reform through the establishment of an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation of the UK . the Government will consult on proposal in order to provide the public with an opportunity to give their view on how to ensure this alternative Chamber well serve they . detail of the process will be set out in due course , and the House will no doubt take a close interest in that process as it be take forward . it be right that we take time to consider how good to implement the other manifesto commitment , include our commitment to consult on an alternative second chamber , engage with parliamentarian and the public where appropriate over the course of this Parliament . with that in mind , I ask the hon . member to not press her amendment to a Division . I now turn to new clause 8 , table by the hon . member for Richmond Park , and new clause 9 , 10 and 14 , table by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , regard the role of the House of Lords Appointments Commission in advise the Prime Minister on appointment to the other place . I thank the hon . member for their interest in reform of the House of Lords ' appointment process . I think we be all in agreement that it be vital that peer meet the high standard that the public expect of they , for the good functioning and reputation of the second Chamber and of Parliament more broadly . constitutionally , it be for the Prime Minister — accountable to Parliament and the electorate — to make recommendation to the sovereign on new peer . as part of its role , the House of Lords Appointments Commission advise the Prime Minister on the propriety of nomination to the House . in that role , HOLAC consider whether a person be in good standing in the community in general and with the public regulatory authority in particular , and whether the past conduct of that person would not reasonably be regard as bring the House of Lords into disrepute . the Prime Minister of course respect and value the commission ' s advice , and will place great weight on it when make decision on peerage recommendation . the hon . member will be pleased to know that the Government ' s manifesto commit to improve the appointment process to ensure the quality of new appointment , and to seek to improve the national and regional balance of the second Chamber so that it well reflect the country it serve . the Government be actively consider how this can be achieve . new clause 14 , table by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , would remove the Prime Minister ' s role in advise the sovereign on new appointment and hand it completely to the House of Lords Appointments Commission . that would be a significant change to the commission ' s role , one that would require very careful consideration . this , however , be a focused Bill that deliver the Government ' s manifesto commitment to bring about an immediate reform by remove the right of the remain hereditary peer to sit and vote in the other place . I therefore respectfully request that the hon . member not press their new clause to a Division . new clause 11 and 12 , table by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , relate to member or prospective member of the other place who have make registered political loan or donation of over £ 11 , 180 since 2001 . the Government believe that the second Chamber be enrich by member who bring diverse experience in support of the House of Lords ' core function of scrutinise legislation and hold the Government of the day to account . the House of Lords Appointments Commission be responsible for vet all candidate for propriety , and consider party donation as part of that vetting . I therefore respectfully ask the hon . member not to press his new clause to a Division . amendment 15 and new clause 13 , table by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire , would prevent individual who be member of the House of Commons in the current or previous Parliament or in the previous five year from be appoint as , or remain as , Members of the House of Lords . I should declare an interest : my husband , until recently the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead , be now a Member of the other place and be also a Government Whip . this be record in the list of Ministers ' interest that be publish last week . I thank the hon . member for table those amendment ; however , the Government can not accept they . as I say , the Government be supportive of the inclusion of individual from all background , and believe that the other place be enrich by member who bring diverse experience . that of course include former member of this place . former member can bring valuable insight to the other place , particularly with their experience of the scrutiny of legislation . deny such eligibility for a specific time period would be unnecessary and prevent valuable contribution be make . I therefore ask the hon . member not to press his amendment . amendment 1 and 2 and new clause 1 and 2 , table by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge , relate to the Lords Spiritual . new clause 1 seek to remove the Lords Spiritual from the House of Lords , and new clause 2 and amendment 1 and 2 be consequential to the substantive clause . while I thank the right hon . member for table the new clause and note the number of signature attach to it , the Government can not accept it . this be a focused Bill that deliver on a manifesto commitment to bring about immediate reform . will the hon . Lady give way ? the Bill have the simple objective of remove the remain 92 space reserve for hereditary peer in the House of Lords , thereby complete the process start in 1999 . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be very generous with my time in my opening remark and we have have a full debate . of course , the Government have commit to wide reform to the other place , include establish an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation of the UK . the Government will consult on proposal to seek the input of the british public on how politic can well serve they . however , as I have set out , this Bill be not the vehicle for consider wide change . I therefore respectfully request that the right hon . member do not press the amendment . amendment 3 and 7 and new clause 3 , which be also table by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge , would introduce a retirement age of 80 for member of the other place . amendment 4 and new clause 4 , which be also table by the right hon . member , seek to impose a participation requirement on all member of the House of Lords . will the hon . Lady give way ? the introduction of a retirement age or a participation requirement be not the purpose of the Bill . the right hon . member , along with other member of the House , will be aware that the Government include a commitment in their manifesto to introduce a mandatory retirement age , whereby at the end of the Parliament in which a Member reach 80 year of age , they will be require to retire from the House of Lords . I be sure he be also fully aware that the labour manifesto include a commitment to introduce a participation requirement for peer . the House of Lords play an important role in scrutinise legislation and hold the Government of the day to account , and the Government recognise the valuable contribution of many peer . it be important that all member participate in support of those core function . rise — I give way . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . what be be propose in these clause be very much in the spirit of the labour manifesto . I appreciate the fact that the Government be go to whip their party hard in order to defeat their own manifesto and any potential change , but will she engage with I and other colleague to discuss how she could implement these change as part of the Bill in the other House , because there be an appetite for they and it be disappointing , especially on the Lords Spiritual , that they be go to impose a three - line Whip on an issue of conscience ? it be good to see the right hon . member ' s enthusiasm for reform of the House of Lords ; it be a shame that he have only find it now that he be in opposition , not over the past 14 year when his party be in government and could have do something about it . this be an immediate first step , as be set out in our manifesto . we have be clear that we will consult about the implementation of the other measure set out in our manifesto and we will do just that . we have hear a range of view today on the Government ' s other manifesto commitment , include exactly how a participation requirement might work . the debate have show why it be exactly the right thing that the Government take time to consider how good to implement the other commitment , while start with the immediate reform that the Bill will deliver . in conclusion , the amendment table by Opposition Members be not appropriate for the Bill , which deal with one principal issue — the need to remove the outdated and indefensible right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . that be our objective and we be focus on deliver it . the Government intend to deliver the other manifesto commitment to bring about a small and more active second Chamber . we be also committed to replace the other place with an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the region and nation . as I say , we will consult on proposal and seek the input of the british public on how politic can well serve they . reform of the House of Lords be long overdue and essential . the Government be commit to deliver those reform , and pass this vital legislation be the first step on that journey . in that spirit , I commend the Bill to the Committee . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 and 3 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 4 - extent and commencement Amendment propose : 25 , page 2 , line 16 , leave out from " force " to end of line 17 and insert " only when the House of Commons have agree a resolution which — ( a ) endorse the conclusion of the report a joint committee appoint for the purpose specify in subsection ( 3A ) , and ( b ) determine accordingly that this Act shall come into force at the end of the Session of Parliament in which this resolution be pass . ( 3A ) the purpose of the joint committee of the House of Commons and the House of Lords refer to in subsection ( 3 ) be to consider and report upon the Government ' s state plan for reform of the House of Lords , include — ( a ) the removal of the right of excepted hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords , ( b ) the introduction of a mandatory retirement age for member of the House of Lords , ( c ) a new participation threshold to enable continue membership of the House of Lords , ( d ) change to the circumstance in which disgrace member of the House of Lords can be remove , and ( e ) change to the process of appointment of member of the House of Lords . " — ( Alex Burghart . ) this amendment provide that the Bill would only come into effect after the report of a joint committee on wide reform of the composition of the House of Lords have be approve by a resolution of the House of Commons . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Alex Easton Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Carla Lockhart Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew David Simmonds Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann davy Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin the Committee divide : Ayes 98 , Noes 376 . question accordingly negative . clause 4 and 5 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - exclusion of bishop " ( 1 ) no - one shall be a member of the House of Lords by virtue of be a bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England . ( 2 ) no bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England be entitle to receive , in that capacity , a writ of summon to attend , or sit and vote in , the House of Lords . ( 3 ) nothing in this section prevent a person who be , or have be , a bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England from receive , and exercise the entitlement under , a peerage for life in accordance with section 1 of the Life Peerages Act 1958 . ( 4 ) nothing in this section prevent a person who be , or have be , a bishop or Archbishop of the Church of England from be permit to enter the House of Lords for the purpose only of lead prayer in accordance with arrangement make by that House . " — ( Sir Gavin Williamson . ) this new clause provide that bishop of the Church of England will no long be entitle to membership of the House of Lords . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Ellie chown Lewis cock John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Harriet Cross Ann Davies David Davis Carla Denyer Dave Doogan Colum Eastwood Stephen Flynn Ashley Fox Stephen Gethins Tom Gordon Claire Hanna Ayoub Khan Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Seamus Logan Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Iqbal Mohamed Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Brendan O ' Hara Rebecca Paul Adrian Ramsay Liz Saville - Roberts Andrew Snowden Blake Stephenson Gavin Williamson Pete Wishart Simon Hoare Nick Timothy Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Christopher Chope Feryal Clark James Cleverly Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis George Freeman James Frith Gill Furniss Roger Gale Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes John Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Edward Leigh Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Mark Pritchard Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Jack Rankin Angela Rayner Mike Reader David Reed Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Jim Shannon Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Rebecca Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Thomas Tugendhat Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Martin Vickers Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin the Committee divide : Ayes 41 , Noes 378 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 7 - duty to take forward proposal for democratic mandate for House of Lords " ( 1 ) it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to take forward proposal to secure a democratic mandate for the House of Lords . ( 2 ) in pursuance of the duty under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must carry out the step set out in subsection ( 3 ) , ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) . ( 3 ) within twelve month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a consultation paper on method for introduce directly elect member in the House of Lords . ( 4 ) after lay the consultation paper under subsection ( 3 ) , the Secretary of State must seek the view on the matter cover by that paper of — ( a ) each party and group in the House of Lords , ( b ) each political party represent in the House of Commons , ( c ) the Scottish Government , ( d ) the Welsh Government , ( e ) the Northern Ireland Executive , ( f ) local authority in the United Kingdom , ( g ) representative organisation for local authority in the United Kingdom , and ( h ) such other person and body as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 5 ) within sixteen month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a report on response to the consultation . ( 6 ) within eighteen month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a draft Bill contain legislative proposal on each of the matter mention in subsection ( 3 ) . " — ( Sarah Olney . ) this new clause impose a duty on Ministers to take forward proposal to secure a democratic mandate for the House of Lords through introduction of directly elect member . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Lee Dillon Tessa Munt Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin the Committee divide : Ayes 93 , Noes 355 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 20 - purpose of this Act " whereas it have not be expedient at present for the Government to bring forward legislation to reform the House of Lords , the purpose of this Act be to provide that the Lords Temporal be peer appoint under section 1 of the Life Peerages Act 1958 on the recommendation of the Prime Minister . " — ( Alex Burghart . ) this new clause describe the purpose of the Bill . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Carla Lockhart Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew David Simmonds Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Ann davy Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin the Committee divide : Ayes 98 , Noes 375 . question accordingly negative . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I thank right hon . and hon . member from both side of the House for their scrutiny of the Bill throughout its passage . I be grateful to all those who contribute in Committee , as well as those who contribute to the lively debate on Second Reading last month . I also thank you and your colleague for their chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank member on both side of the House for their contribution , include my hon . friend the Members for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) and for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mr Sewards ) , the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , my hon . friend the Members for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) and for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) and for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , and the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) . this Bill be a matter of principle . it have be introduce to address an outdated and indefensible feature of our legislature , rather than as a criticism of any contribution make by individual member . the Government have listen to the debate in this House with interest and I look forward to follow the Bill ' s passage in the other place , where I be sure there will be far thoughtful contribution . I thank my official and the whole team who have work on the Bill . this House will send to the other place a Bill that fulfil a manifesto commitment , and our manifesto be very clear : " the next Labour government will … bring about an immediate modernisation , by introduce legislation to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . " that be precisely what the Bill do . it have a clear and simple purpose , a single focus , and it complete a process that start a quarter of a century ago . it send a powerful message to people grow up in my constituency — in Blaenavon , Pontypool and Cwmbran — and beyond , right across the country : " you do not need to be bear into certain family to make our law . " on Third Reading of the Parliament Bill — that landmark reform of the House of Lords — on 15 May 1911 , the then Prime Minister , Herbert Asquith , say : " I repeat , as I begin , that our first duty , in view of the electoral and parliamentary history of this measure , be to place this Bill on the Statute Book . it be stamp , if ever a measure be stamp , with the authority and approval of the electorate of the United Kingdom . " — [ Official Report , 15 May 1911 ; Vol . 25 , c . 1699 . ] in that spirit , I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I echo the word of the Paymaster General in thank everyone who have speak this afternoon . it have be a good natured and interesting debate . I want to echo some word of my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) in praise of the House of Lords . when I first come to this place , I bump into Lord Young of Cookham , who I have know a few year previously , and I say , " how be you get on in the upper House as a Minister ? " he say , " it ' s rather hard there than it be down your end . " when I ask he what he mean , he say , " well , you see , when I stand up as a Minister in the House of Commons , I normally feel that , with the support of my official , I be probably the well inform person in the room . but when you get to the Lords , you face five former Secretaries of State , three former head of the civil service and people with expertise from across the sector , and what you find there be real scrutiny . " I love this place and I do not wish to take anything away from it , but I do not wish to see it replicate ; one of we be enough . that be why , despite the fact that the opposition disagree with many of the thing that the Labour Government be do , we have be pleased to see that they have edge away from their long - stand commitment to an elect upper House . an elect upper House would replicate this place unnecessarily . it would inevitably get in the way of the primacy of the Commons and make the passage of law hard . it be very significant that , on 5 March , Lord Mandelson make an intervention with the Lord Speaker — on his very popular podcast — and say that the proposal of the former Prime Minister , Gordon Brown , for constitutional reform have " barely be put in the oven … let alone … bake . " I be very pleased that the Labour Government have take that on board . that say , the Bill in its present form can not have the support of the Opposition . the Labour party have renege on the solemn promise it make in 1998 not to get rid of the remain hereditary peer until it bring forward a comprehensive plan for a reform upper House . many Government Members have say that the hereditary peer sit in the House of Lords by duty of right ; well , that be not entirely right . the reason the remain hereditary peer be in the House of Lords be that the Labour Government put they there . that be the agreement that be reach in 1998 . the remain hereditary peer — who already sit in the Lords and scrutinise , night after night , the legislation introduce by this House — should not be treat in this way . have the Government respect their position and make provision for they in a reform Chamber , it would be very hard — not impossible , but very hard — to oppose this legislation . however , as it be , the Government be seek to remove established scrutineer in order to replace they with Labour appointee , and we can not support that . the Minister ' s argument that the Conservatives can nominate replacement be obviously not entirely genuine . although we can put people forward , we can not guarantee that they will go into the upper House . the Government could make that commitment tonight , but they have not do so . they have say nothing about the 33 Cross - Bench hereditary peer who will be remove by the legislation . Labour have break its promise from 1998 , and it have break its promise to bring forward all its reform immediately . the conservative party will not support it . I will endeavour to be brief . I think that the Bill be to be welcome . it be many thing , but it be not , I fear , what the Government have try to dress it up as . it be the fulfilment of a manifesto commitment , but one that be make , as my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) make clear , back in 1997 . Blair blink because my friend Robert Salisbury do what all Cecils have do since their appointment by Queen Elizabeth : he do a bit of deal - making and they find a solution . if you be very quiet and listen , Madam Deputy Speaker , you can hear the voice of Labour radical of the past mutter to themselves , " be that it ? be that what all the intervene year since 1997 and the 14 year of Labour navel - gaze in opposition , as it contemplate its radical programme for government , have produce — remove 92 people who would have be remove in any event have Blair not blink ? no democratisation at all of the House of Lords ? what a waste opportunity . " what a waste period of opposition that be — something I hope and know that our Front Benchers will not replicate . this timid church mouse of a Bill say , " we will take away some people who we would have take away more than a quarter of a century ago . " the Paymaster General , who I always consider to be one of the star of the Treasury Bench and who be a good friend , tell we that the principal motivation behind the Bill be for young constituent of Torfaen to say , " ah , a glass ceiling have be remove , " as if they have sit there think , " you know , I would love to get involve in public life , if it wasn ' t for this roadblock to my advancement " — namely , the 92 hereditary peer . with the great of respect to those on Treasury Bench , I think that a great percentage of the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent — and constituent of all Labour Members — be probably ask themselves when the Labour party will crash the glass ceiling of have either a person of colour or a woman lead it . I , too , congratulate the Paymaster General and his ministerial team on get the Bill through Parliament at such pace and so early in the parliamentary calendar , as he have say on several occasion . I really hope that this will not be it . as the Conservatives have say , this really be a timid pipsqueak of a Bill . the Paymaster General quote Herbert Asquith ' s word about the House of Lords , but could he not have quote Keir Hardie , who pledge over 100 year ago to abolish it ? could he not have quote Gordon Brown , who say only a few month ago that Labour would bring forward a new democratically elect second Chamber to represent the nation and region of the whole of the United Kingdom ? instead , what we have be the low - hang fruit of the hereditary peer . be it not remarkable that it have take until 2024 to remove the earl , the baron , the duke — all the assorted aristocrat — and we be to give labour great credit for do so ? this should have happen several century ago , not in 2024 . I hope that Labour Back Benchers be not go to be disappoint , because we have hear several contribution , on Second Reading and today in Committee , suggest that further reform be go to be come ; that these be the first stage of a whole package of reform that will come before this House . I have to say that we have hear it all before from successive government , particularly labour one . we be promise a succession of reform to the House of Lords , only for nothing to be deliver , so what we need to hear from Government Front Benchers be when those further reform be go to come . we need a clear road map for their ambition when it come to the House of Lords , and that have to start with ensure that that circus down the corridor be properly reform and that we get to a position where it will be a democratically elect House . well do to the Government on get this Bill through . I really hope that Labour Back Benchers have not be sell a pup and that they will get the further reform that have be promise to they , but what we really need to hear from the Government now be about solid progress on proper reform of the House of Lords . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann davy Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Claire Hanna Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Michael Shanks Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Anna McMorrin Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam Edward Leigh Alan Mak Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Mike Wood Jerome Mayhew David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 435 , Noes 73 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 3 to 9 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Merchant Shipping that the draft Merchant Shipping ( General Lighthouse Authorities ) ( increase of Borrowing Limit ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 9 September , be approve . Income Tax that the draft Pensions ( Abolition of Lifetime Allowance Charge etc ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 October , be approve . Financial Services and Markets that the draft Packaged Retail and Insurance - base Investment Products ( Retail Disclosure ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 October , be approve . that the draft Prudential Regulation of Credit Institutions ( meaning of CRR Rules and recognise Exchange ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 October , be approve . that the draft Securitisation ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 October , be approve . that the draft Consumer Composite Investments ( Designated Activities ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 October , be approve . local Government and Public Involvement in Health that the draft Barnsley and Sheffield ( Boundary Change ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 October , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , exit the European Union that the draft Windsor Framework ( Non - Commercial Movement of Pet Animals ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 October , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Pubs Code : guest Beers Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) in 1916 , during the great war , the Government introduce the famous " Carlisle experiment . " concern about the intoxicate effect of Carlisle ' s pub on nearby munition production result in the state ownership and control of the pub and beer trade in my constituency from 1916 to 1973 . how great , Members may ask , be the concern that it warrant the nationalisation of Carlisle ' s pub and brewery , include those of my own great - grandfather ? a few short mile up the road from Carlisle lie his Majesty ' s Factory Gretna . regard as the great munition factory on earth in the first world war , it be where the cordite , nickname the devil ' s porridge , be mixed . More a town than a factory , it stretch 9 mile from Mossband in my constituency to Eastriggs in the constituency of the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , the same distance as between this House and Wembley stadium . at the heart of this gargantuan site be 30 , 000 worker who live in two purpose - build township . the factory and the township have their own independent transport network , power source and water supply system , but not pub . for that the worker have to walk into the small town of Gretna , where the number of pub could not cope with the demand , and so they would board the train to nearby Carlisle where pub be so plentiful that it be say that one could swing from the door of one public house to the door of the next without touch the ground . Thirsty at the end of a long shift and doubtless relieve to have survive another day mix cordite , evening - shift worker would often bribe the train driver to ensure they would arrive early enough to get the drink in before closing time . meanwhile , in anticipation of their arrival the barman of Boustead ' s bar near Carlisle station would line up 500 shot of whisky . Drunkenness ensue . with the landlord away fight for King and country , the elderly and the widow who be leave run the pub , along with a deplete local police force , be powerless to control the drinking . the result be a fourfold increase in alcohol - relate offence in the city , high number of absenteeism and low level of production at the Gretna factory . the scale of the problem be so severe that it be think to be the major contributing factor in the shortage of shell on the frontline . something have to be do . the Munitions of War Act 1915 have give the newly form Ministry of Munitions additional power over factory and factory worker . a central control board be establish with the power to control the sale and consumption of alcohol in area , such as Carlisle , where the excessive consumption of alcohol be believe to be have an adverse impact on the war effort . with the Munitions Minister David Lloyd George already have declare drink to be the great deadly foe that Britain face , Carlisle ' s pub and brewery be nationalise in June 1916 . some 138 out of 321 license premise be close , with the remainder remodelle or rebuild . the first state management pub , the Gretna Tavern , open just a month later in July 1916 . member might be interested to know that the very last state management pub , the Border Reiver , open in July 1971 , just four day before the Licensing ( Abolition of State Management ) Act be pass . for almost 60 year , all of Carlisle ' s public house be completely tie to the state - run brewery in Carlisle . the beer be brew at a reduce level of alcohol , its advertising be tightly control and specify by Whitehall , and the architectural design , both external and internal , be oversee by a state - appoint architect . consumer choice , it be fair to say , be severely limited . follow privatisation , the pub be sell in large job lot and snap up by the major brewery of the day , mean that even to this day the majority of our pub in Carlisle be own by large pub - own business where the beer supply be tie to they . today , pub landlord continue to face restriction on what they can buy , sell or serve , mean that they can not always provide what their customer demand . for the small local independent brewery — include Great Corby , the Carlisle Brewing Company , West Walls Brewing Co . and the Old Vicarage brewery in my constituency — get their locally produce beer sell in a local pub remain a challenge . rise — I will give way first to my hon . friend . I , too , have brilliant independent brewery in my constituency , such as Renegade and double - barrelled . they make a huge contribution to our local economy and , importantly , make a great pint . will my hon . friend join I in welcome the Government ' s determination to improve access to the market for independent brewer and to get great local beer into our pub ? I do welcome that , and I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward this debate . I speak to she beforehand to ascertain what she be try to achieve . Strangford have have a resurgence of alcohol production , include the microbrewer Ards Brewing Company , just a few minute away from I on the Carrowdore Road in Greyabbey . it be a necessity that small brewer can sell in their local pub , and I believe it be a mistake not to allow exemption for small brewery . I support the call to allow these exception . do she not agree that we must do what we can to let the wonderful craft brewery have a shot in the local market ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . I have visit and speak to brewer in my constituency , and they tell I that they just want the chance to compete on a fair basis . the Society of Independent Brewers show that 75 % of beer drinker believe it important that pub offer a range of craft beer from small brewery , such as Glastonbury Ales and fine Tuned Brewery in my constituency . do the hon . Member agree that small brewery should be include in the new low hospitality rate , so that they no long need to pay 40 time more a pint in business rate than large brewery ? I thank the hon . member for that intervention . I will come later in my speech to other point that the Society of Independent Brewers and Associates be campaign on . I will make a little more progress . recently in Cumbria , the Carlsberg Marston ' s Brewing Company close Cumbria ' s principal brewery , Jennings in Cockermouth , and bring to an end 200 year of local brewing . the need to create opportunity for local brewery to sell their local beer to local drinker in Carlisle be , therefore , more pressing than ever . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . I have two fantastic brewery in my constituency — Tractor Shed and Ennerdale Brewery — which be not that far from Carlisle , despite the state of some of the road and rail . would it not be fantastic if more cumbrian brewery find a route to cumbrian pub for their fantastic beer ? I agree with my hon . friend . from March next year , pub tenant just 700 yard from my constituency will be able to open up a direct relationship with local brewery such as those that my hon . Friend refer to and have beer from small independent brewery serve to their customer . the scottish pub code , champion by the Labour MSP for West Scotland , who bring it forward as a Member ' s Bill , be due to be introduce in 2025 . it be similar in many respect to our own pub code , which govern England and Wales , but for one crucial element . in regulate the relationship between tie pub landlord and tenant , it aim to promote fairness and equitable treatment within tie pub lease agreement . it also allow scottish pub tenant to enter into a guest beer agreement whereby the tenant can sell at least one beer in any format — include cask and keg — choose by they at a price they determine . they can change that as frequently as they wish . the beer must be of a brand where less than 5 , 000 hectolitre — I be reliably tell that be about 875 , 000 pint — be produce in the previous production year . that mean that it be beer from small local brewery that qualify and not that from the large brewery . that will empower tenant , allow they to respond to their customer ' request , and support small local brewery . introduce a guest beer agreement in the rest of the UK could be worth £ 28 million to local brewery . it would widen consumer choice , help landlord and support small local business , so I be delighted that the Chancellor and Ministers have be watch development in Scotland closely and promise in the Budget last month a consultation on way to encourage small brewery to retain and expand their access to UK pub . the consultation provide an opportunity to maximise consumer choice and support local business by enable more guest beer . it be an important development , and it show that the Government want local community business to have the opportunity to compete , grow and expand . as we have hear , 78 % of the beer sell in our pub come from just five global brewing company . in comparison , our 1 , 700 small brewery represent only about 6 % of the market . that need to be urgently review to ensure that there be a level playing field where small business can compete fully . on that point , I congratulate the Society of Independent Brewers and Associates on the launch of its new " indie beer " campaign , which seek to make it easy for beer drinker to identify beer from independent brewery in pub , bar and shop as demand for local beer rise across the UK . research show that most beer drinker be unaware that the mass - market craft beer brand that we see in our pub across the UK be in fact own by global brewer . a good example of that from my own county be Wainwright beer . inspire by the chronicler of our famous cumbrian fell , the name Wainwright be synonymous with the county of Cumbria , and that lead many visitor to believe that they be sample a locally brew beer when they come to Cumbria ; in fact , it be just one of a range of beer produce by the global beer company Carlsberg . the majority of beer consumer say that they want to buy beer from genuinely independent local brewery . I believe that SIBA ' s campaign will help many more do just that . these issue be wide than just the tenanted pub market , with small brewery face restriction in the lease , manage and free house pub market as well . perversely , many free house be not free at all when it come to beer . sole supply contract with global brewery be prevalent , restrict and determine what beer can be sell . increasingly , these global brewery be also use proprietary equipment in pub , which prevent a local brewery from even be able to connect their cask to the pub and offer their product to the landlord at all . publican , brewer and beer consumer in my constituency hope that the Minister will be able to start the consultation process as soon as possible . I wonder whether the Minister may be able to offer some clarity on when that might commence , so that all interested party can have the opportunity to provide their insight and experience . it would also be appreciate if he could confirm that this will include issue experience right across the UK , include in England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . will it also look at the whole pub market , include tenant , lease , manage and free house ? will it include both keg and cask draught beer , which be predominately sell in our pub ? finally , will the Minister look closely at the scottish guest beer agreement to see whether its provision could be include in our own pub code for England and Wales , perhaps as part of the statutory review of the pub code , which I understand be due next year ? should the Minister ever find time in his busy diary , I would like to invite he to visit my constituency to meet some of my local brewery and to join I for a drink — albeit not a locally brew one — in the Border Reiver , the last pub in Britain to have be design , fund and build by the UK Government . before I call the Minister , I have be update on the recent wedding this weekend of the hon . member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) . I congratulate he , and I understand that his husband Ben have be wait quite some time to see his new husband . that be some pressure for the Minister . may I start by extend my own congratulation ? I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) on secure this debate and on a very engaging and well - inform speech . it take we through an interesting period in her constituency ' s history . I be unaware of the nationalisation of pub in Carlisle . if that be a suggestion that she wish to put forward for our next manifesto , she will be aware of the policy - make process and how to do that . unfortunately , at this stage I can not confirm that we have any plan to nationalise pub — that probably will not come as a surprise to anyone . before I go on to address my hon . friend ' s point , I will say a little more about the industry more generally , because it play a critical role in support local community in every corner of the UK . the interest that we have have in this debate show how important pub be . they be not just any other local business ; they be a part of our history , culture and heritage , and they be a huge employer . the wide hospitality sector employ around 2 . 2 million people . the Minister be make a very important point , because whether it be the Carlisle Brewing Company in the hon . Lady ' s constituency or Kinver Brewery in mine , our family brewery play an important role in provide that diversity of product and high - quality beer that be particular to our local community . do the Minister recognise the devastating impact of the Chancellor ' s change to business property relief in the Budget on the future of so many family brewery across the country ? I will go on to some of the very positive thing that be announce in the Budget to help brewery and small business in particular . there be about 154 , 000 business in the hospitality sector , generate revenue of around £ 52 billion per annum . they create vibrancy in community , support wide social objective , provide accessible job , support community cohesion , and provide welcome space for those who feel isolated and want to enjoy the company of other . it be an important fact that over 80 % of the beer consume in the UK be brew here — not in the Palace of Westminster , but in the UK — while UK brewer also export over 1 billion pint of beer annually to over 100 country , accord to the british Beer and Pub Association . I thank the Minister for give way , and I thank my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , for secure the debate . although we might not be brew beer in this place , we do consume some of it . in the spirit of shameless plug that we have all participate in this evening , I would like to point out that my local brewery , the Keswick Brewing Company , be serve Keswick Gold down in the Strangers Bar . if it be slightly easy than travel up to Cumbria , I wonder if the Minister would like to join we for a pint at some point . I absolutely do thank my hon . friend for that intervention . he have obviously hear that I be quite easily tempt into Strangers . it be a very important part of the facility that the Strangers bar offer member the opportunity to serve guest beer . it be a great opportunity to plug great local business . small independent brewer often reflect their local area in their product , from locally sourced ingredient to their marketing , branding and style . the resurgence in brew in the UK over the last decade have strengthen awareness among the general public of local beer , whether it be the new - style craft beer or independent brewery resurrect well - love local beer that have be lose in the consolidation of large brewery . the Minister be quite right about the importance of local brewer . stoke - on - Trent ' s own Titanic Brewery serve a wonderful pint of plum porter in Strangers now and again . it be not just about the product they sell , although if they be able to access guest beer line they could grow their business and create more job ; it be also about the story they tell about the history of who we be . titanic be so - call because Captain John Smith be from Stoke - on - Trent . that be often miss in our cultural storytelling : brewery be do a great job of export who we be and what we be around the country and around the world . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . that be a really important point . it be an essential part of our culture and a real selling point for we around the world . when people come here , they want to visit a traditional english or british pub , and we have a different style in every part of the country . the point make early by my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle about some of the large brewery now mimic the local brand be an interesting development , which show that imitation be the good form of flattery . more generally , we know there be challenge for the hospitality sector , which be still struggle to recover from the pandemic . the subsequent cost of living crisis have compound the challenge for pub , increase cost and the ability of business to repay debt . this be an ongoing struggle . our system of business rate be particularly unfair on high street business . it disincentivise investment , create uncertainty and place an undue burden on our high street . that be why the Government be undertake a review of the business rate system , to ensure that all business be pay their fair share , recognise and address the fact that high street business , include pub , have shoulder the majority of the burden for far too long . in her Budget , the Chancellor announce that the Government be freeze the small business multipli for 2025 - 26 to protect small property from inflationary bill increase , and that retail , hospitality and leisure business will receive 40 % relief worth up to £ 110 , 000 per business . this support package alone be worth over £ 2 . 2 billion over five year . it be also announce in the Budget that the Government would reduce the alcohol duty on draft product . this will reduce business ' total duty bill by up to £ 100 million a year and increase the duty differential between draft and non - draft product from 9 . 2 % to 13 . 9 % , so that a pint in the pub attract less duty than the beer in the supermarket . the Government will also increase the cash discount provide to small brewer and producer for non - draught product and maintain the current cash discount provide to small producer for draught product . this in effect increase the relative value of small producer relief for both draught and non - draught product . job , too , lie at the heart of our plan , back by the Employment Rights Bill , which have its second reading early this month , and local growth plan will be a cornerstone of the place - base approach . we have hear already about the importance of pub in the local economy . turn more specifically to the guest beer consultation announce in the Budget , the Chancellor say that the Government will consult on way to ensure that small brewer can retain and expand their access to UK pub and maximise drinker ' choice , include through provision to enable more guest beer . at this point , let I echo the support for the work do by the Society of Independent Brewers and Associates and the campaign for Real Ale in championing beer drinker ' choice and pursue the case for more independently produce beer in pub . we will work closely with both those organisation , but also with the wide hospitality sector , to identify barrier to market access for small brewer and how they might be address . I want to ensure that we have a clear understanding of the current position , and of what intervention may be necessary and the impact of those intervention . we want to find the right solution to help small brewer gain access to the market , but to do that we will need to understand all the issue and ensure that any intervention be proportionate , that they address the problem , and that they do not result in unintended consequence . for instance , we will want to develop a good understanding of the extent to which tie tenant use exist flexibility , by , for example , buy beer from small brewer through their pub company on payment of a tie release fee . we will want to understand whether manage and retail pub chain could or do offer local beer , to understand the scope for increase the provision of local beer in other licensed premise such as restaurant and hotel ; and to understand the barrier prevent local brewer from gain access to more pub , and the reason for those barrier . there be a range of issue that we will want to consider as part of the consultation . I can respond to my hon . friend ' s question about what we would consider by say that we be rule nothing out at this stage , and that we intend to take a holistic view of the sector . the next statutory review of the pub code be due to take place next year , but it be only one part of the picture , as it apply to only about a fifth of all pub in England and Wales . as have be mention , there be to be an interesting development in Scotland , whose pub code will include a guest beer provision . that do not necessarily mean that the provision will automatically be transport to England and Wales , but it also do not mean that we would not be interested to see how it pan out — although , as it will not be introduce until March 2025 at the early , we will need a bit of time to understand how it work . we will be able to consider that as part of the consultation , and we will , of course , consult formally on all the option available to we to increase small brewer ' access to the market . it be important for we to get a handle on the complexity of the market before we undertake the consultation . we will work with SIBA and CAMRA and will engage with a range of stakeholder in the pub and wide hospitality sector before consult on option . in response to the question about when this will happen , I can say that we will try to get on with it as soon as we can , but we do want to undertake that work before launch the formal consultation . we understand the point that have be make and the good intention behind the suggestion that we have hear , but we want to ensure that this work for the industry as a whole . let I end by thank my hon . friend for initiate her first Adjournment debate . I look forward to work with she on these issue in the come month , and I will certainly be take up her offer of a drink — although , owe to diary constraint , I will probably do so on premise close to the Chamber than to her constituency . question put and agree to . House adjourn .