it be a pleasure to follow my constituency neighbour the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) . I can confirm that reading be an excellent place to do shop ; it be a vibrant city with excellent restaurant and an important regional hospital . I be disappointed that the hospital will not be rebuild until the 2040s , but we will , like all constituency mp who circle the Royal Berkshire hospital , continue to advocate for it . it have be a pleasure to represent over the past year my constituent of Henley and Thame . it have be pleasing to back some local campaign , but also to learn some of the national significance that those campaign have , and I would like to speak to two of they . in my hometown of Henley , I have be campaign to get Marsh Lock horse bridge reopen since it close over three year ago . there have be a record of inaction , and when I become the MP , I immediately write to Ministers , the Environment Agency , Thames Path national trail and many other organisation — basically , anyone who would listen . I be pleased that that work have make progress . in do that work , I have discover a lot more about the state of our infrastructure on our river — that is , lock , weir and bridge . we all know the state of infrastructure when it come to education , health and our road , but less know be the poor state of our lock , weir and bridge . they be essential infrastructure for river navigation and safety on the river , and if we do not have they , my hometown of Henley pretty much would not exist and would not have a river run through it — or at least there would not be any water in it . I would like to highlight that situation and call on Ministers to continue look at how additional funding can be raise for the Environment Agency and its vital work there . the second campaign I have be focus on be the Thame to Haddenham greenway . Thame and the village of Haddenham be just three mile apart . Haddenham have the train station , and Thame be the major town with shop , school and many facility . the two be not connect by an off - road greenway capable of take active travel . I have be campaign alongside resident to get that go . that be why I introduce an amendment on compulsory purchase order to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . as we know , compulsory purchase order be readily use for road project , but they be difficult to use for active travel project . that be why I call for Government guidance on that . unfortunately , my amendment be not successful , but I be pleased that Active Travel England will bring forward guidance , include two case study on how other council have successfully use cpo . I be grateful to the Government for push that forward . a cycleway between Goring and Wallingford would also benefit my community . again , I hope that the Government will continue to invest in active travel . I will touch briefly on another issue that I have be campaign on : the lack of ADHD service in Oxfordshire . with no adult service commission for annual review by a specialist , once someone with ADHD who be well control on medication reach the one - year limit , as require by National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline , GPs be remove prescription from they . that be an absolutely scandalous and very dangerous situation for people with ADHD . I urge the Government to move quickly in their task of implement the recommendation of the forthcoming taskforce publication , to ensure that we be properly treat and look after people with ADHD . in my remain time , I will mention some of the excellent organisation that I have have the pleasure of meeting , include the Men ' s Shed in Peppard ; the Sharing Life Trust in Thame , which do excellent work as a food bank ; the River Tame Conservation Trust ; the Riverside Counselling Service ; and the Henley YMCA . like many first - time mp who spend their summer recruiting officer and do a lot of admin , I be very much look forward to this recess , as I be sure all member be . but rest assure that I and my Lib Dem colleague will be back in September to continue hold the Government and the official Opposition to account , and I look forward —