I thank the shadow Minister for his speech . Mr Speaker , thank you very much for give I this opportunity to speak . it appear that for once my sense of timing have be impeccable . have complete 24 year and seven month of service in the Royal Air Force , I have arrive on time , uniquely place as the only person who could sequence their maiden speech in amongst a debate about military aircraft . unfortunately , as my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) suggest in his riposte to the King ' s Speech , I will not be wear a silk smoking jacket . it be a life of service to this House that also characterise my predecessor ' s career . a loved politician , John Cryer give 14 year of service to the constituency of Leyton and Wanstead , and nine year as Member for Hornchurch before that . he be a fine parliamentarian and , more importantly , a fine socialist , like his mother and father before he . his incredible commitment to the parliamentary Labour party as its chair for the past nine year be instrumental in help we get to where we be today . while he now move on to the other place , I be certain that his child , and his family ' s legacy , will follow in his footstep in year to come . this sentiment of service be something that resonate deeply with I . service be fundamental to who I be , and it be fundamental to the Government and to my commitment to the wonderful constituency of Leyton and Wanstead . I be here because my constituent place their trust in I , a trust for which I be grateful , and will repay with service and a commitment to ensure they be represent in this place to the full of my ability . at the centre of my constituency be Leytonstone , at the heart of which be our beloved Whipps Cross hospital . whipp have serve our constituency for 121 year , during which time its NHS staff — quiet professional — have give selflessly for those in need within our community . yet this hospital be emblematic of 14 year of fail Tory commitment and lack of investment . its rebuilding be central to my tenure as an MP . Leytonstone be also a cradle for talent , have be home to notable figure such as my namesake David Bailey and Cartrain , and sport star Jo Fenn , Andros Townsend and David Beckham . Leytonstone be the home , of RAF pedigree , of Douglas Webb DFM , the front gunner in the famous dam buster raid , and more lately , of James Sjoberg , Officer Commanding 47 Squadron . leverage this rich heritage to inspire our youth and give they pathway to success be a personal commitment of mine . opportunity like these be scarce for young people like I . create similar pathway for our youth will be central to my service . Leytonstone be also home to one of the most financially deprive area in the country , but it be a spirited community that seek to heal itself . community leadership from Cann Hall mosque ensure the provision to all local people of a much - need food bank and a youth group . similarly , at St Margaret with St Columba , other gather to preserve a sense of community despite their obvious hardship . community spirit be also strong in South Woodford and Wanstead . if Whipps be the heart of our constituency , Wanstead park be its lung and the river rode its vein . wanstead park be part of our historic Epping forest , which be save by campaigner such as Octavia Hill , founder of the National Trust , and the spirit of activism and preservation continue in the Wanstead Community Gardeners , the South Woodford Society and the ever popular Wanstead fringe festival . to the south be Leyton , home of Leyton Orient football club . the o ' s and their trust embody the good of our community . from their sacrifice in the pal regiment in the first world war to their work with Waltham Forest Age UK , they support our vulnerable veteran . the club be also proud to celebrate our diverse community , epitomise by Laurie Cunningham , the club ' s first black player . his legacy continue to inspire , as do the leadership of Omar Beckles in improve representation in football . such leadership be reflective of the club ' s leadership in the establishment of governance for our footballe world . effort such as these be key to I . visible role model and leadership be essential for diverse community . without these inspirational character , young black people like I will not see themselves in place of power . I reflect on the very low number of black man in our politic , despite an increase in representation across all ethnic group . address this be key to fix the inequality that face young people , particularly in the area of knife crime . a pivotal moment in my upbringing be the murder of Stephen Lawrence . while we be aware of the continue failure to provide justice to my friend Stuart ' s family , we all know of the institutional failing that have lead to this . I want to point all member to a number of thing surround this that be formative for I . first , the absence of representation inhibit our ability to hear voice and understand the challenge face by other like we . I reflect during the campaign that when I be young I carry a knife , not because I wish to attack anyone , but because I be scared and feel that the fate that have befall my friend ' s brother could happen to I and other like I . mistakenly , I assume that I could look after myself similarly , but sadly , we know that be not the case , and that those who carry knife be more likely to be kill themselves . we need people like I to translate those experience into policy . secondly , and in some way most importantly , I look back with great upset and anger on how this matter be politicise by extreme group . our anger and upset be channel by populist who manipulate we for their own political end . those voice be present in our House and vocal in our politic , and we must challenge they openly to prevent those actor from foster anger , hate and division within our community . I fear it be our great threat to democracy , and we must be fundamental in our moderation . we must challenge those behaviour without fear , openly , separate they from the underlie issue . finally , what see I through that period in my life , and through a highly decorate fly career in the Royal Air Force , be the two thing I value most : first , my friend ; and secondly , my family . my mother and father instill in I the value and virtue of service and humanity ; my sister shape I and help I to see the world through the eye of a woman . my friend shepherd I through school , college and university , and through every difficult challenge in my life . but it be my wife who have support I steadfastly through a military career and grow our wonderful family . I love she deeply and will never be able to thank she enough . the reason I be here be my service not just as a Member of this House but to our nation in the RAF . I have choose to speak in this debate because as a young engineering student I recall learning of the failing of the Duncan Sandys defence review , which do deep and lasting damage to our aerospace industry and industrial base . already we have hear voice state that our commitment to this programme be a fallacy , but acceptance of that be merely acceptance of a failure to manage defence programme and the company contract to deliver they . it be not gcap that be a fallacy , but the way we contract and manage such programme . our interaction with defence prime must change . we must encourage risk taking , because without it there be no innovation . we must not allow the customer to set the demand for technology that the customer itself can not conceive . we must be a Government who well understand science , and we need an industry that be incentivise with accountability . we have the sixth large defence budget in the world . we must get our money ' s worth , and we must make sure that our money lead to our security and not to excess corporate bonus . for that reason , the remark by the Minister for the Armed Forces about the sanctity of the defence review be key . we can not allow defence simply to be buy out of its overspend . this be an exciting programme with two close and value partner , and the Government ' s defence review be critical to it . I congratulate the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on his maiden speech . this be my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I must tell you that I arrive in this place fire with enthusiasm — so much so that my Whip have warn I that I need to be careful that that be not how I end up leave this place : fire , with enthusiasm . I be new woman represent a new constituency : Chester South and Eddisbury . it be without doubt one of the most beautiful , extraordinary and inspiring part of the United Kingdom , encompass the southern ward of the great city of Chester , those below the River Dee , and many and varied village in the heart of Cheshire . Audlem , Bunbury , Wybunbury , Wrenbury , Weaverham , Lache , Handbridge , Christleton and Huntington , Tarporley , Tattenhall , Tarvin , Kelsall , Cuddington , Farndon , Malpas — those be just some of the very special place with which you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and this House be go to become quite familiar in the come year , I hope . much of my constituency be rural , which be one reason why I find the King ' s Speech so disappointing . this government profess an ambition for growth ; if so , it be simply extraordinary that there be no mention of the contribution of farming to our national economy . food be fundamental : the contribution of the countryside to our country be incalculable , and a Government who be so metropolitan in their outlook that they fail to understand that and reflect it in their agenda be , to use the context of today ' s debate , both miss an opportunity and in need of an education . my constituency be both urban and rural , as be our country . understand the importance of both , and the necessary balance between the two , be key to our country ' s future economic and societal success . the joy of my constituency be that it include a rich range of dynamic village community and a swathe of one of the great historic city in Europe , the matchless city of Chester . it be a business and tourism hub that face challenge , of course — from basic connectivity to burdensome business rate — yet boast many success , among they the major employer in the Chester business park and the University of Chester , whose business school fall within my constituency and at which no few than 27 Commonwealth country be represent among its staff and student . in the 2023 international barometer survey , the university be name in the top 10 nationally in 20 category , include a top three placing and four top five category placing . Chester ' s potential be unlimited , and I shall seek to ensure that this government give it the full chance to bloom . there be also fantastic school in Chester South and Eddisbury , some of which I have already have the pleasure of visit and many more that I look forward to go to over the come month . alongside our excellent state school , we have two independent school educate over 1 , 600 pupil , include nearly 400 student with SEND support who do not have education , health and care plan . those student will face vat under the Government ' s current plan — plan that will reduce choice for parent and increase pressure on the state school system , with no clear benefit to any of our young people . Chester South and Eddisbury have much to offer , from the glory of Delamere forest — which welcome more than 750 , 000 visitor each year — to the excitement of Oulton Park racetrack and Peckforton castle , the home of civil wedding in England . I say that advisedly , because it be the then owner of Peckforton castle who inspire a former Member of Parliament for the City of Chester to introduce a private member ' s Bill that become the Marriage Act 1994 . for the first time , that Act allow civil wedding in this country to take place in venue other than registry office , include castle , historic house , hotel and Chester zoo . some might argue that that single piece of legislation have contribute more to happiness in England than any other legislation of its type . the former Member who introduce that legislation , who I know quite well — in fact , I have know he since I be bear — remind I regularly that his 1994 Act illustrate how , in this place , an ordinary Back Bencher can make a difference . I hope to make a difference in the year to come , not only by badger the Government about deliver local bus service and improve mobile phone and broadband connectivity , and demand that they back our farmer and ensure the investment and infrastructure our village and city need to thrive , but perhaps by introduce legislation of my own in the fullness of time . I draw inspiration from my constituency and from my predecessor : not only my father , who be the Member for City of Chester in the 1990 — Mr Speaker will know both how marvellous and , sometimes , how irritate it can be to have a parent who be themselves a Member — but the newly elect hon . member for Chester North and Neston ( Samantha Dixon ) , who sit on the Government Benches and who previously represent the City of Chester . I look forward to work with she on matter of mutual benefit to our constituent . I particularly share with my predecessor in Eddisbury , Edward Timpson , his inspiring passion for education and his concern for the care and development of young people . another of my distinguished predecessor from whom I have learn be Stephen o ' Brien . in his maiden speech a quarter of a century ago , he say something that I , as someone who serve in the civil service for more than a decade and go on to run a small business , can wholeheartedly echo as I visit the many small and medium - sized business in my constituency : " the prosperity of those business be primarily dependent on less government , less tax , less interference and , above all , a release from the stranglehold of regulation , choke as they do a business ' s ability to compete and an entrepreneur ' s incentive to take the risk " . — [ Official Report , 28 October 1999 ; Vol . 336 , c . 1159 . ] with such a constituency and such predecessor , I know that I stand on the shoulder of giant , with much to do and prove . the House of Commons Library , which I have to say I be already find invaluable , have advise I that I be the first Member of Parliament in its entire history to have the forename Aphra . I be name after Aphra Behn , the 17th - century playwright , poet and author , who be the first british woman to earn she living as a writer . the great 20th - century novelist Virginia Woolf say of she : " all woman together ought to let flower fall upon the tomb of Aphra Behn … for it be she who earn they the right to speak their mind . " what a privilege it be to be in this place , in the 21st century , able to speak my mind on behalf of my constituent across Chester South and Eddisbury . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech today . may I congratulate you on your election ? it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) . he speak about his constituency with eloquence and passion , and I congratulate he on his speech . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Damian Collins , who serve as the Member of Parliament for Folkestone and Hythe for the last 14 year . he work tirelessly here in Parliament , most notably as the Chair of the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee , which he lead for several year up to 2019 . he spearhead several significant inquiry into press issue , include doping in sport , football governance , combat homophobia in sport , tackle online disinformation and examine addictive technology . as a father of two boy , I be well aware of the parenting challenge that be pose by online gaming and social medium , so I know that the work Damian do to hold tech company to account perform a vital public service , for which we be all grateful . recognise his expertise and contribution in this area , Damian be appoint the Parliamentary under - Secretary of State for tech and the digital economy in 2022 , and that appointment follow two parliamentary private Secretary role in the Northern Ireland Office and the Foreign Office . I be sure the whole House will join I in wish Damian all the good for his future endeavour . I would also like to acknowledge my second predecessor , Michael Howard — Lord Howard — who represent the constituency for some 27 year . he remain a much respected figure locally , and many voter talk of he fondly on the doorstep during the short campaign . it be the honour of my life to be elect as Folkestone and Hythe ' s Member of Parliament . I thank the member and volunteer of Folkestone and Hythe Labour party who move heaven and earth to get I elect . without their effort , I simply would not be here . I also want to thank my wife and my family , who have be behind I all the way . I have the privilege of be the first Labour MP ever to have represent the constituency since its creation in 1950 . before that , the constituency cover its approximate area , Hythe , have return conservative mp continuously since 1895 . as a further piece of history , such be the strategic importance of Hythe and the town of New Romney — two port that be among the original Cinque port on the south coast — that they have be represent continuously ever since the Simon de Montfort Parliament of 1265 , which be usually regard as the first Parliament in England . I first visit Folkestone and Hythe in 2007 as a baby barrister send to folkestone magistrate court , apparently draw the short straw . the fee be not much more than the train fare to get there , and the two - hour journey down be bumpy and slow . the upside be that I get fish and chip for lunch , a sea view and a breath of sea air . by the time I move to folkestone in 2014 , the high - speed line HS1 have cut the journey time to 53 minute , and as hon . member can imagine , the dream of seaside living be no long a distant thought for many . folkestone and Hythe today be a cultural hub . we have art festival , comedy , theatre , open studio , open garden , the Folkestone Music Town initiative and live music to suit every taste . the Royal Gurkha regiment be base in the constituency , and we have one of the large nepalese community in the UK . it be hard to beat a nepalese curry from Folkstone . the constituency have around 20 mile of beautiful coastline , from the border with Dover down to the Kent - Sussex border near Camber . it be little wonder that Folkstone and Hythe be a tourist hotspot , a creative and digital magnet , and a place to find solitude and peace . we also have a large windfarm in Romney Marsh , which be open by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) in 2009 . it be a privilege to visit it with he early this month , follow his announcement about drop the ban on onshore wind . what I love most about Folkstone and Hythe be the strong community spirit , and the drive of so many to make the area the good that it can be . there be Romney Marsh community hub , where the elderly can socialise and access service , and hythe youth centre support young people in the area . the New Folkestone Society and the Sandgate Society be safeguard the heritage of the area , and Napier Friends welcome , integrate and assimilate refugee who come to our area from all over the world . sadly , however , far too many people in Folkstone and Hythe be be leave behind . some of the most deprived area in Kent be in my constituency , and the system have be hold community back . opportunity be spread unevenly , sewage pollute our sea , unaffordable mortgage rate and rent be face by everyone , and public service just do not work as they be suppose to . have live on Folkstone and Hythe ' s coastline , like many resident I have see overload small boat arrive on our shore — boat organise by organise criminal network that trade and commodify human being . on too many occasion than I care to remember , I have join local resident to remember life lose in the channel . indeed , as the Home Secretary remind we , 90 life have be lose so far this year . I be proud to be a Labour MP support this transformative Labour Government who will pass the law we need to turn Britain around and break down barrier to opportunity . the 35 Bills in the King ' s Speech be just the start of that . as a barrister of 17 year ' standing , I particularly welcome the Government ' s reinstatement of the rule of law , which be the foundation of our constitution and democracy . the Government ' s decision to treat human smuggling and trafficking as a national security issue be long overdue . I have represent many victim of those criminal gang , and I know that such be their sophistication and resource , that nothing short of the full force of our national security expertise will do . we must never forget that the victim themselves need justice . I be the son of one of the first Filipinos who migrate to the UK . my mum come here in the 1970 and work in the NHS , which I think make I the first person of filipino heritage to stand in this Chamber . I understand how easy it be for vulnerable people to be exploit by powerful other — Filipinos around the world know that all too well — and we can , and must , break the business model of these sophisticated criminal . for a corner of east Kent that often feel leave out and a long way from Westminster , Labour ' s devolution plan represent a rare opportunity . coastal community , include those all along the south coast , face similar challenge . East Kent have the second high level of economic output of Kent ' s five region , and devolution would open the door to great power , and with they a strategy for regional economic growth and solution to the problem that my constituent face every day with housing , bus , health , skill and work . the strength of Folkestone and Hythe lie in its people . every person I speak to during the general election campaign reinforce my belief that there be so much untapped talent and so much that people have to give , and that with an extra help hand from the Government the potential of every person can finally be realise . to everyone in Folkstone and Hythe , I say this : I stand here ready to help you , whether you vote for I or not , and I promise to use all the energy , expertise and dedication to be your advocate and your voice , wherever it be need . my parent ' value of compassion and public service run through everything I do , and those be the value that will today , and every day , guide my action , my decision and my work in and across this House . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to address the House , and I congratulate you on your election to the Chair . I be sure that the House will want to join I in extend our deep sympathy to my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) . I be very sorry and sad to learn of the death of his mother . I congratulate he on a wonderful maiden speech , and on speak with such passion about our child and the potential of the next generation . I want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Rob Butler , who I know have great affection for Aylesbury , and who serve the constituency with great loyalty and good will . it be a true honour to be here as the new Member of Parliament for Aylesbury . give that my constituency house the county town of Buckinghamshire and have return a long line of Conservative Members to Parliament , as might be expect from that county , I be particularly proud to be here as Aylesbury ' s first ever Labour MP , and its first female mp . my constituency be very diverse geographically ; it cover the rapidly grow town of Aylesbury , many lovely village , such as Whitchurch , Wing , Cheddington and Edlesborough , historic woodland and farmland , and the chiltern hill . it also have very diverse community , with people of Christian , Muslim , Hindu and other faith , and people of asian , african and eastern european heritage , live alongside elderly resident and young people whose family have call my constituency home for many generation . we be a historic constituency , too . Britain ' s old road , the Ridgeway , cross through to Ivinghoe Beacon ; the remain of an iron - age hill fort lie beneath Aylesbury town ; and an Aylesbury constituency have exist in some form since 1554 . it be from Aylesbury that John Hampden defend Parliament against Charles I in 1642 , and his statue overlook Market Square in the town centre still celebrate the parliamentary freedom that he champion . perhaps I will not dwell for too long on our conservative - lean political history from then onwards , but I want to highlight three other way in which history shape my brilliant constituency today . first , there be our vibrant culture . Roald Dahl make Buckinghamshire his home , and today we host the Roald Dahl child ' s gallery at Discover Bucks museum . we be the birthplace of the Paralympic movement , and host the first competition for people with spinal injury in Stoke Mandeville back in 1948 . for decade , Aylesbury be home to the iconic Friars nightclub , where act like Queen and U2 perform . David Bowie ' s first performance of " Ziggy Stardust " there be now mark in the town by a bronze sculpture , which burst into song , catch visitor by surprise . secondly , my constituency have a history of offer a friendly welcome , include to many evacuee from London in world war two and the exile Czech Government , who operate out of Old Manor House , between Wingrave and Aston Abbotts . you can still see the bus shelter that the Czech President instruct to be build on that road , have take pity on the local schoolchildren wait in the rain . we have see the same welcome to many people who have move into the constituency in recent decade , and particularly into the many new housing development in the area . thirdly , I want to highlight the inequality in income and wealth that exist in the constituency . member of this House may be surprised to hear that Aylesbury have high level of deprivation . in fact , one in eight child in the town live in poverty , and we have always have a history of people struggle to get by on a low wage in the print and car factory , or as agricultural labourer . I pay tribute to the local food bank and to fantastic charity like Youth Concern and Aylesbury Homeless Action Group , which make life more manageable for those who be struggle most today , but they should not have to exist . that take I to the four point that I will prioritise as the Member for Aylesbury , and to the reason why I want to speak in today ' s debate on education and opportunity . above all , I want my constituent to feel a sense of opportunity and optimism again . first , I will focus on the desperate need to improve healthcare . we be home to Stoke Mandeville hospital , where my son be bear , and its internationally renowned spinal injury unit . I have the deep respect for everyone who work in the healthcare sector across the constituency , but we have to make it possible for people to get basic healthcare and to see their gp again , and we have to tackle the awful and pervasive mental health crisis in my constituency and across the country . one of my most brilliant and good friend , Sophie Middlemiss , be not here to witness this moment of great change and opportunity for our country , because she take her own life when her little girl be 10 week old . I do not want anyone to suffer from post - natal depression and anxiety in the way that she do , and I will fight to get well help for people in her situation . secondly , I will focus on education for our child , and I will fight to ensure that all child , whatever their background and circumstance , get the opportunity that they deserve in life . I be particularly concerned about SEND child — I be pleased to have hear a lot about that in the House today — and their parent , family , carer and teacher , who be not get anything like the support they deserve . that have to change . thirdly , I will help our business to thrive . I will support the small business that I hope will be part of a revival of Aylesbury town centre . we have to make it a safe and attractive place to spend time again , and we have to make it possible to get in , across and out of town without spend hour in traffic . I will also support the farming business in the rural part of our constituency , within a wide , careful approach to protect and manage our nature - rich and agricultural land . finally , I come to this job conscious not just of the challenge and the opportunity for my constituency and my country , but of the very challenging moment that we be in globally . before come to Parliament I be lead a humanitarian aid agency , and I will continue to be a voice for , and do right by , the most vulnerable people around the world . there be record number of people catch up in conflict and crisis , at a time when geopolitical rivalry be on the rise and the global institution set up after world war two no long offer the protection that they use to . a strong and principled Britain can make a real difference in the world , and I know this matter to my constituent , most pressingly in their concern about the awful suffering in Gaza and the suffering of the israeli hostage and their family . let I conclude with one final point . I mention that Aylesbury be home to the Roald Dahl Children ' s Gallery , so I will end with some inspiration from Matilda , perhaps Roald Dahl ' s fine character — certainly that be my daughter ' s view . Matilda say : " have power be not nearly as important as what you choose to do with it . " every day , in this place of power , we all make choice . I will know if I have make the right choice if people in crisis around the world and , most importantly , people struggle in my constituency tell I that I have play my part in make a positive difference to their life . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my first speech in this place today and in a debate on education , a subject that be very important to I . as this be my first contribution , I ought to start by thank the people of North West Cambridgeshire for elect I to represent they in this House . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) on her maiden speech , as well as all the other we have hear today , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) , whose speech be very moving ; I be sorry to hear of his loss . I have thoroughly enjoy hear maiden speech from member on all side of the House over the past few day , and I be honour to be part of a clearly very eloquent and passionate intake of new mp . I look forward to the debate that we will have over the come year . my constituency of North West Cambridgeshire have not have a new Member of Parliament in many year , as my predecessor , Shailesh Vara , be elect to represent it in 2005 , when I be only three year old . over that time , he make significant contribution to the work of this House , for example , through campaign to broaden the age of routine breast cancer screening and , on a local level , fight for new infrastructure to support resident as new development continue to come forward across the constituency . he be very kind to I over the election campaign , which be fight fairly and cleanly , and I wish he well for the future . North West Cambridgeshire be a constituency with an enormous variation of different community . it have a large urban section in those part of Peterborough south of the River Nene , such as Fletton , Woodston and Stanground , as well as new area , such as the Hamptons , which continue to develop . that urban section also contain the former village of Orton Waterville and Orton Longueville , which grow into one another and expand when Peterborough be designate as a new town . despite that growth , the village atmosphere of those area have be beautifully retain . my constituency also have a number of semi - urban town , with Yaxley be the large and join by other such as Ramsey . and it have a large number of small village — far too many for I to name now — but I look forward to hold constituency surgery in as many as possible and engage with their rich history as I work to represent and support their community . North West Cambridgeshire have a very strong military tradition , with one in 20 of my constituent report in the 2021 census as have previously serve in the armed force . I be proud to have within my constituency the ground of RAF Wittering , a station that be extremely active during the Battle of Britain in the second world war . I look forward to play my part to support the cause of those personnel actively serve , as well as the veteran I now represent . continue on the theme of the community across North West Cambridgeshire , it would be remiss of I not to pay tribute to the large farming community that I now represent . I be pleased to meet representative of that community during the campaign and be thoroughly look forward to continue that engagement now . a large proportion of the land in my constituency be use for farming and that play a significant role in provide food for our country . our farmer face numerous challenge , from the impact of rural crime to the effect of climate change on crop and livestock , and I be committed to advocate for farmer ' need and support sustainable practice . I will be take part in the National Farmers ' Union ' s new fellowship programme for Members of Parliament to strengthen their knowledge and understanding of the farming industry and the problem it face , and would strongly encourage other colleague to do so too . now , if I may turn to the subject of today ' s debate , as I be the young member of this Parliament — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I thank member — it will not surprise many member to hear that I have not be out of the education system for that long . indeed , I be in the first cohort of student whose a - level exam be cancel during the pandemic . in many way , it be that experience that politicise I . I grow up in a deprive rural area and be concern from a young age to see a progressive decline in local high street , alongside grow problem in public service , notably within school . when I be in my final year at a rural school , budget cut force the closure of its sixth form , leave I and many other have to find alternative provision at short notice , which be not easy for many , who face very long journey indeed to the near alternative . the closure not only disrupt education but fragment the community , as student be scatter to different institution , but I never connect those issue to politic and the decision be make in this place until I see the direct impact of those decision on school during the pandemic . the response to the crisis , the decision about exam , and the support , or lack thereof , provide to student make it clear to a great many previously disengage young people that political choice have real and immediate consequence . we have to work across this House to improve engagement with our democracy , and a large part of that must revolve around rebuild trust in politic , and get to a position where we disagree respectfully and work together to make life well for the people we represent . my background be in science — biology in particular — and that have instill in I the importance of have solid evidence behind the decision that we make here . we see during the pandemic that communicate the rationale behind decision take by the Government be very difficult , which highlight why there be such a need to improve how we teach science in school , and I will champion that . I intend to use my direct experience of the problem in our school to contribute to the Government ' s agenda to revitalise they . go far , we must deliver a robust skill system as part of facilitate lifelong learning as we seek to break down the barrier to opportunity , as our manifesto outline . on that front , I pay heed to Anglia Ruskin University Peterborough . while just outside the boundary of my constituency , it be deliver a huge amount for resident in the community I represent , as , prior to its delivery , Peterborough be the large city in our country that lack a university , as I understand it . I be proud that a Labour combine authority have make expansion and development of that university a real priority , and I look forward to championing that cause in this place . that be a real example of how devolution work . have serve as a councillor and council cabinet member , I hope to be an ally and champion of local government and the insight that councillor and other locally elect representative have into local community . I have highlight just some of the issue that my constituent in North West Cambridgeshire face , but of course there be so many more that I do not have time to go into . a lack of affordable housing . Insufficient and unreliable public transport . the dental desert that we face in Peterborough , with no adult dental clinic accept new patient , and people have to travel as far as Stevenage and Kettering . the list go on , but I will end this speech by reaffirm my commitment to do all that I can to address these issue , both in my constituency and more broadly , through deliver with colleague the change that we be elect to bring . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on take your place . I also congratulate all the member who have make such eloquent maiden speech this afternoon , particularly my hon . friend the Members for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) and for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) — please accept my sincere condolence for the loss of your mother . I be grateful to have the opportunity to make my maiden speech . it be an honour to stand here as the new representative for Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I thank every person who put their faith in I at the election . the people of Paisley and Renfrewshire South have vote decisively for real change and a Government in their service , and that be what we will deliver . I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all the staff of this House for the professionalism and kindness that they have show to every one of we who be a new MP . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mhairi Black . it can not have be easy for Mhairi to enter this House as the young MP of her time , with the country ' s press hang on she every word . I follow her career with interest and , while we disagree profoundly on how we get there , I have no doubt at all that her desire have always be for a fair and more equitable country . I wish she well in all her new endeavour , particularly her upcoming debut at the Edinburgh Fringe — though she may need to encourage her colleague in the Scottish Government to settle their now annual pay dispute with the local government workforce if she be to avoid step over the city ' s rubbish to get there . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Lothian East ( Mr Alexander ) , who serve my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South with distinction as their MP for 18 year , between 1997 and 2015 , before be return to this House again this year . the help and support that he provide to so many across my constituency be mention frequently and fondly at many of the door on which I knock during the election campaign . that he have already be appoint as a Minister of State in the Department for Business and Trade in this Government be testament to the talent and experience he bring to our Benches . both Mhairi and Douglas leave large shoe for I to fill . I be just glad that that be a metaphor rather than a physical requirement , because it might have be a challenge that elude I . Madam Deputy Speaker , size be not everything , as I be sure people will appreciate . my constituent do not vote for I on the basis of my height . in the word of one of my constituent when I knock on their door , " we be vote for you — you ' re not get any tall . " but no one in this House should mistake my height or size for the scale of my ambition for my constituency . I be pleased to make my maiden speech in this debate on education and opportunity , because without good education , opportunity be reduce for many and inequality widen . in do so , I remember fondly my modern study teacher , who , almost 30 year ago now , bring a class of working - class kid from the west of Scotland down to London on a bus to show we this mother of all Parliaments and remind we that , whatever our background , this place be as much our place as it be anybody else ' s . his passion and belief in the power of politic to improve people ' s life give I the confidence to fight for the value that I believe in , and I will forever be grateful to he for that . my value be shape by my grandad , Tadeusz Sadowski . he be a polish migrant who come to Britain and work down our pit . the loss and trauma that he experience by the war wage at home lead he to seek a well life here and in Scotland . his experience teach I that no matter their background or birthplace , everyone deserve the opportunity to live a decent life , free from persecution and prejudice . that be why I have spend my entire working life until now in the service of the trade union movement and ordinary work people . my constituency lie on the west of Scotland , cover the southern portion of the Renfrewshire council area . it include much of Paisley , Scotland ' s large town , the small town of Johnstone and Linwood , and the beautiful village of Kilbarchan , Elderslie , Lochwinnoch , Howwood and Brookfield , among several other hamlet and farmland spread across the rolling Renfrewshire hill . it have a proud and rich industrial history : the mill of Paisley , the carpet factory at Elderslie and the establishment of the first machine tool foundry in the world . while the industry people work in may have change — many now work in our vital public service and at the nearby Glasgow airport — it remain a place where people work hard and rightly expect to be treat fairly in return . a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work should not be much to ask , but wage have lag behind cost in recent year . too many people who be in work have have to claim benefit just to get by , and the number of those claim unemployment benefit in my constituency be above the scottish average . for too long , our community have be fail and forget by two government — but no more . I be proud of the commitment set out by our new Labour Government to improve people ' s life , particularly the commitment to a new deal for work people . make work pay , end insecure work and extend employment right will make a huge difference not just to people ' s pocket but to the quality of their life . they will be the big transformation of worker ’ right in generation , restore dignity to work and prepare people for the change world of work . my constituent have never be afraid of stand up for what they believe in , and neither have I . we be , after all , the birthplace of William Wallace . it be our persistence in the pursuit of equality , opportunity and justice for all that bind we like the thread of the Paisley shawl . it be the spirit of persistence in the pursuit of equality that prompt the early uprising of the weaver who seek recompense for the sma ' shot thread — an invisible thread without which the Paisley shawl would fall apart . that industrial dispute be win by the worker , whose story live long in our memory and continue to inspire we today . it be persistence in the pursuit of opportunity that bring my constituent together to provide for other , as exemplify by the brilliant work of Thorn Athletic ; the community bus service launch by Kilbarchan ' s John McBarron , who step out of retirement to help fellow resident by fill a hole in local transport provision ; and the West end Growing Grounds Association , which provide raise bed to help grow food and prevent food poverty in the local community . it be persistence in the pursuit of justice that give we the infamous Paisley snail , which form the basis of tort law . these be all ordinary people do extraordinary thing , and they be hero , every one of they . my constituent know that good work should provide not simply the bare necessity that people need to live , but the mean by which they enjoy a good life — like our famous poet , Robert Tannahill , who know how to weave thread and verse alternately . St Mirren football club provide huge enjoyment to many people across the constituency , and I hope that the entire House , include my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , whose constituency include St Mirren ' s arch rival , Greenock Morton , will send its good wish to the club as it head to Iceland tomorrow to face Valur FC in the UEFA conference league second qualifying round — its first european tie since 1987 . I know the value of people be able to send time appreciate the beauty of the natural world . we have the beautiful Gleniffer Braes , with its highland cow , the Clyde Muirshiel regional park , and the tranquillity of the Lochwinnoch RSPB nature reserve , one of the few remain wetland in the west of Scotland , where people can watch whoop swan , widgeon , goldeneye and , if they be very lucky , the elaborate display of the great crested grebe . it would be remiss of I if I do not mention the enrichment provide in everyone ' s life by the pet of Paisley and Renfrewshire South , many of whom I have the pleasure of meeting on the doorstep during the campaign . let I conclude with this message to the voter of Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I will fight for you every day with every fibre of my being . I will work with everybody in the House who have a genuine desire to improve the life of the most vulnerable people in our community , because one person live in poverty be one person too many , and we must work together to do everything in our power to combat that . JFK once say : " let we never negotiate out of fear . but let we never fear to negotiate . " that be the motto to which I hold true as a trade union negotiator . we must ensure that we do everything we can to lift people out of poverty and provide good job with decent term and condition that allow people to thrive , not just survive , because people need bread , but they need rose too . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I warmly congratulate you on take up your position and warmly welcome the Secretary of State and her ministerial team to their position , too ? I express my deep condolence to my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) for his loss . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) on his sobering and powerful word , and other colleague across the Chamber on their speech today . I start by thank my family for their love and forbearance in recent month , my labour and other friend for their support , and the people of Rugby and the village for give I the honour of represent my constituency , which have be my home for the last 17 year . as the MP represent the only seat with a sport name after it , I hope that the House will indulge I the occasional rugby analogy . the rugby ball have be pass to I , notwithstanding a couple of minor maul during the election campaign , which I overcome . I want to pay tribute to Mark Pawsey , my predecessor , who run with the ball — literally and metaphorically — as a member of the Commons and Lords rugby team . Mark be an honourable , decent and kind man who serve the House with distinction , work tirelessly for his constituent and promote the game of rugby internationally . I also put on record my respect for the former Labour Member Andy King , whose distinguished service continue to inspire I . Rugby be a market town that have grow rapidly in recent year , surround by many small village — too numerous to mention one by one — set in the beautiful Warwickshire countryside . to the north of the constituency be Bulkington , which some say be one of the large village in England , although my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) may disagree . rugby ' s population balloon when the Oxford canal be construct in the 1770 , and the railway hastened industrialisation . I say to any Front Benchers listen that be on the west coast main line can very much hasten any ministerial visit that they may or may not want to make . [ interruption . ] no , stop at Rugby . the confluence of the M1 , the M6 and the M45 near Rugby place we firmly in the logistic golden triangle . notwithstanding this logistical good fortune , Rugby ' s potential lie primarily with its people . we have be bless , and still be , by people who innovate , challenge norm and think creatively . let we take sport : a plaque at Rugby School record that , in 1823 , the legendary local schoolboy William Webb Ellis , " with a fine disregard for the rule of football , take the ball in his arm and run with it " . although my connection with the game of rugby as a player be , I confess , somewhat underwhelming , I be proud to say that my dad , who be in the Gallery , play for England as a schoolboy . I will not join the House rugby team , but I might join a reform House rock band . I be acutely aware of how dangerous such statement can be , give that yesterday I wander innocently into a meeting of an all - party parliamentary group , and wander out slightly bewildered as vice - chair . as a classically train violinist and semi - retired rock musician , I be glad to represent a constituency fill to the brim with talented people . I will bang the drum and strum a chord for they . Rugby be the birthplace of the poet Rupert Brooke , whose word " that there ' s some corner of a foreign field that be forever England " epitomise a quiet , contemplative english patriotism . we have spawn famous rock band and musician , from Spacemen 3 to James Morrison . the creative art scene be thrive , with fantastic local band of all genre , an orchestra , dance school , Rugby theatre for amateur dramatic , gallery and much more . the sporting scene be vibrant , with several rugby football and football team , and a plethora of club in the town and village , where selfless volunteer offer pretty much every sport to the community . Rugby also have a proud track record of technological innovation . as hon . member get on a jet plane this week , they should think of Rugby , as the prototype of the first jet engine be build by Sir Frank Whittle at the British Thomson - Houston work in the town in 1937 . at the same site a decade later , a young hungarian refugee Dennis Gabor invent holography . I live in hope that holographic technology advance so far that , one day , mp can be beam into multiple location , to assist with our busy diary . until recently , dozen of giant mast form part of the world ' s most powerful radio transmitter . in 1927 , the site be instrumental in the first transatlantic telephone call . I believe in maintain the strong possible transatlantic alliance , so I be proud that Rugby play its part in deepen the tie between our two great nation . that pioneer industrial and scientific prowess persist . today , GE Vernova build world - lead advanced generator , include for Royal Navy vessel . at Ansty Park we have the Manufacturing Technology Centre , the London Electric Vehicle Company — which make the electric cab in which many of we newbie may have be move around in recent day — and FANUC UK . when I visit the mtc recently with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister and the West Midlands Mayor , it strike I that in order to unleash potential , we need partnership between business , the education and skill sector , local and national government , trade union and much more . we meet apprentice , beam with pride at their achievement and in anticipation of a bright future . we also need investment , most importantly in education . I be therefore delighted that the King ' s Speech include measure to raise standard in education , reform the apprenticeship levy and establish Skills England . have visit so many of our excellent state secondary school and the brilliant local college , I be confident that the people of our area will do the modern - day equivalent of invent a sport , design an engine or write an immortal poem . Rugby be a place that be at ease with itself . we be a very diverse town , and that be unequivocally a huge strength . we learn from one another , celebrate one another ' s tradition , break down barrier and focus on our common interest , something epitomise by the late Dr James Shera MBE , a mentor of mine who be sadly miss across the constituency . our charitable sector be strong . I will take the liberty of mention two local charity that inspire I : the Our Jay Foundation , which install defibrillator ; and Back and Forth Mens Mental Health , an issue close to my heart . the church , temple and faith group be at the heart of our community . the Street Pastors , who I shadow on a late night shift , show kindness in action — kindness be a much underrated virtue . the people of Rugby and the village be compassionate . they warmly welcome refugee from Ukraine . I pay tribute to the thriving Rugby Ukrainian community , its ukrainian member bravely forge their new life away from home , and all from the constituency who be help they . the Benn Partnership ' s " meet and eat " on Fridays , cater for by recent immigrant who not only cook the food but be learn English there , show our cohesion . our community invest in our young people , with fabulous youth centre , such as Hill Street and the Bradby Club . there be too many voluntary group and organisation for I to mention ; I simply salute they all . we thrive more when we work together and when the Government be truly an enabler . I want to put on record my appreciation as a councillor of the work of council officer and all public servant in serve our community in difficult circumstance . I campaign to become a labour candidate use the phrase " together we can " . I believe that be the only approach that will truly unleash the potential of the constituency . we now have a brilliantly lead Labour council , a Labour MP and a Labour Government commit to empower place with a strong vision . I will do all I can to bring together people in this constituency , urban or rural , factory or farm worker , whatever their background , to tackle the problem we face , whether the lack of infrastructure such as GP surgery , the need for more service at the superb Hospital of St Cross , insufficient affordable and social home , town centre regeneration or the need to make our street safe . in do this , I be inspire by the late , great Ann Clwyd , for whom I work , and the late , great Frank Field , with whom I work .