business before Questions Electoral Commission ( answer to Address ) the comptroller of his Majesty ' s household report to the House , that the Address of 4 March , pray that his Majesty will re - appoint Dame Elan Closs Stephens as an Electoral Commissioner with effect from 13 March 2025 for the period end on 12 March 2027 , be present to his Majesty , who be graciously pleased to comply with the request . oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Service Accommodation what step he be take to improve housing for military personnel and their family . what step he be take to improve the quality of accommodation for service family . on behalf of the House , I would like to mark the passing of Group Captain John " Paddy " Hemingway , the last survive battle of Britain pilot — one of those strikingly few brave young man who turn the tide of the war and keep our nation safe from Nazi invasion . the fire sale of military family home by Conservative Ministers in 1996 be probably the bad privatisation ever . the Government be pay £ 600 , 000 a day to rent back the home and then pay all the repair cost , with no power to plan or to do the major upgrade need . we buy back 36 , 000 force home in January , we start the defence housing review in February , and we aim to publish our housing plan in the summer . I thank my right hon . friend for that response . the man and woman of our armed force perform the ultimate public service . they and their family make considerable sacrifice to keep all of we in the UK safe and secure . do he agree that the least we owe our servicemen and woman be decent housing that they can proudly call home ? my hon . friend be right ; the sacrifice that those who serve in uniform make to keep we all safe be exceptional . the least that their family deserve be a decent home — it be , after all , the heart of all our life . the step we have take with the buy - back of the Annington home be a decisive break with the past , and we will now put in place the necessary plan to upgrade force family home for the future . the Ministry of Defence own more than 300 house in the former Arborfield garrison in my constituency . only a handful of they be occupy by service family ; the remainder be let privately . but increasingly they be be leave vacant , which , with the estate not be maintain , be affect the life of constituent . I be tell that no decision can be take on the future of the site until a housing strategy be complete . can the MOD make an early decision on the Arborfield housing , to stop the neglect and return much - need , affordable housing to the market ? if the hon . Gentleman write to I with the specific , I will certainly look into that . he set out for the House the character of some of the neglect and decline that we have see in our force housing for so long , and the bind that previous government have be in , without the power or control to make the upgrade and plan for wholesale renewal for the future . that be what our housing review will start to fix . we can not fix these deep - seat , long - run problem overnight , but we be determined to do well than we have do in the past . can the Secretary of State reassure force family in North Durham that the Labour Government be end the previous Conservative Government ' s fail approach of paper over the crack , and be instead take action to deliver new , high - quality family home for our service personnel over the year to come ? I can indeed . my hon . friend and I stand on a manifesto , on which we be elect as a Government , that commit to end the scandal of force family home . the buy - back that we have put in place be the start of deliver on that promise for armed force family and deliver , as we be do on a number of front , for defence . the litany of complaint I receive from service family in accommodation in Gosport include damp , black mould , unsafe electrical wiring and waste water flow into home . one constituent write to I that : " the overall condition of our flat be unfit for purpose , unhygienic and quite frankly a threat to our safety . " this have be go on for decade , under successive government , and our service people and their family quite simply deserve well . what I want to know from the Secretary of State , on behalf of my constituent , be when we will begin to see tangible difference . Pinnacle and VIVO be not fit for purpose ; when will we see they replace with an organisation that can do those repair , and do they properly ? I invite he to visit Gosport to see some of that appalling service family accommodation for himself . the hon . Lady be right ; it be shameful . her Government have 14 year to fix the problem ; we be now do that job . we have a policy in place that mean that no one should be let a home with apparent damp and mould problem . there be a special , dedicated report line for those problem , and if they be severe , service family should be offer alternative accommodation . the defence housing review , which be now under way and will report in the summer , will set out plan for a long - term overhaul of these deep - seat problem , which be overdue and have be neglect . military aid to Ukraine what step he be take to ensure that UK military aid be adequate to meet Ukraine ' s capability requirement . as a new government , we step up and speed up the delivery of UK military aid to Ukraine . this year the UK will provide £ 4 . 5 billion in military support , the high ever sum . we be fully behind President Trump ' s pledge to bring a last peace to Ukraine , and we want to see success in today ' s talk , but we will not jeopardise the peace by forget about the war . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his answer . over the weekend , President Trump ' s special envoy dismiss the Prime Minister ' s plan for an international force to support the ceasefire in Ukraine , call it " a posture and a pose " . whatever the wisdom of those remark , do the Secretary of State see a future in which UK force could deploy on peacekeeping operation in Ukraine without a US security guarantee ? as the Chief of the Defence Staff say over the weekend , no one should doubt that the work that the UK be lead with France to pull together a coalition of nation willing to step in and help ensure last peace in any negotiate settlement in Ukraine be critical and substantial . the UK be determine and will lead that effort . this year , the UK be provide Ukraine with more financial aid through military support than at any time since Putin ' s illegal invasion . do the Secretary of State agree that it be crucial to wide european security , and to our own security here in the UK , that we continue to support Ukraine and ramp up the pressure on Putin ? I do indeed . put the Ukrainians in the strong possible position as they choose to go into discussion be part of the responsibility and commitment of this Government . we plan very closely with Ukraine the support we provide , and our 2025 plan to support Ukraine have be develop with the Ukrainians and reflect what they need most : drone , air defence and ammunition . that be why this month the Prime Minister announce a £ 1 . 6 billion deal to supply more than 5 , 000 lightweight multi - role missile for air defence that be build in the UK , both back the Ukrainians in their fight and boost british job and business . in this age , when the plot of " the Manchurian Candidate " appear more like a documentary on US politic than a work of fiction , have the Government receive any indication that their effort militarily to support Ukraine would be actively oppose or block by the Trump Administration ? the Prime Minister have make it clear that , in the context of a negotiate peace , the security arrangement or guarantee in Ukraine will need US support . I have make the same point strongly in my discussion with Secretary Hegseth . as Defence Secretary , my job now be to put Ukraine in the strong possible position by continue level of UK military aid , encourage other nation to do more , and develop — alongside the french — plan for multinational support to maintain the long - term security of any peace in Ukraine . rochdale ' s ukrainian community be fervently proud of what the Prime Minister have do in recent week , and not just on the diplomatic front but with the record support for Ukraine militarily . do the Secretary of State agree that it be important to call out the russian lie and propaganda that have be propagate of late , include the lie that somehow Ukraine be not a real country , but a fake country , and to call out the lie that Britain ' s security do not also depend on Ukraine ' s security ? my hon . friend be right . the first line of defence for the UK and for Europe be in Ukraine . the Ukrainians share our value and be fight with huge courage — military and civilian alike . it be our job to stand with they during that fight to safeguard their future and their ability to make their own decision as a country . if and when they go into the negotiation , we will stand with they then , and we will stand with they after a negotiate peace , which we all hope President Trump be capable of securing . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I associate the Opposition with the Secretary of State ' s remark about Paddy Hemingway , the last of the few to whom we owe so much ? on the potential peacekeeping force for Ukraine , we have hear from the Secretary of State that it be jointly british and French . in fact , in every one of his answer he stress the amount of work we be do with France . be it therefore not extraordinary that , at the very same time , France should be work to undermine our defence industry by have we exclude from a £ 150 billion european defence fund , which will include other non - EU state ? the hon . Gentleman be clearly a glass - half - empty type of guy . the European Union , when it produce its defence and security white paper last week , set in place specific arrangement for any third nation , such as the UK , that strike a defence and security partnership with the European Union . that be exactly what we go to the country with , promise to undertake that as a UK Government . any country with a partnership in place then potentially have access to those sort of programme and that sort of funding , and that be what we will try to negotiate for this country and our industry . I can assure the Secretary of State that I be full bifta behind our armed force and the UK defence industry . be not the point that we provide our nuclear deterrent unconditionally to european NATO country 24 / 7 , our Army be in Estonia defend Europe ' s eastern flank , and we have do more than any other european nation to support Ukraine ? will the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister stand up to President Macron and stress to he that this be the bad possible time to prioritise fishing right over Europe ' s collective security ? I just ask the hon . gentleman to drop that Brexit rhetoric . we be lead effort with the French Government and the french military to meet the challenge of the US and the requirement of Ukraine to have a coalition of country willing to stand with Ukraine in the context of a negotiate peace , to help they secure endure stability and deterrence , to prevent Russia re - invade that sovereign country . support for Veterans what step he be take to ensure that veteran receive adequate support after leave the armed force . what step he be take to ensure that veteran receive adequate support after leave the armed force . I have always say that we train people to join the military and to be in the military , but we do not necessarily train they to be a civilian after they leave . that be why this Government have take swift action to support veteran upon leave . last month I launch Operation Ascend , which will help veteran thrive into post - service career . our hugely successful career transition partnership have now see 88 % of all veteran leave straight into employment since October . we have extend national insurance contribution relief from April 2026 for employer who recruit veteran . on top of that , this Government have award £ 3 . 7 million in veteran housing grant . I be a firm believer that over the past 14 year we do not take enough responsibility for support our veteran , and plan that we will unveil in the future will take a step in the right direction to improve that . I recently visit the Heyford and Bicester veteran group in my constituency , which be set up by Ian Ridley to support fellow veteran throughout the region . this fantastic initiative bring together a range of service from charity , the NHS and local authority to support veteran . however , when speak to Ian , I be amazed to discover that the group receive no funding from the MOD , and that veteran in our region be not signpost to its service when they leave the armed force . I therefore invite the Minister to visit the group with I and see the work that it do , so that we can discuss how to make it more routine for service such as those that it offer to be make available to our fantastic veteran . I thank all the people , most of whom be probably volunteer , who be support veteran in the hon . member ' s constituency . two day ago I visit another tri - service veteran hub that be deliver , I think , exactly the same type of service . we often find that while there be a great deal support out there , it be difficult for veteran to navigate the process of find the right place , and we be work on plan to help they with that . Harrogate be a proud armed force town and the location of the Army Foundation College , and Menwith Hill and Catterick be nearby . North Yorkshire as a whole play an important part for our armed force . veteran in my constituency have tell I that they often move back there after posting throughout their career , but they then have problem access housing through the local authority . what conversation be the Minister have with local government colleague to ensure that local authority have a well understanding of how to listen to what veteran say about the adaptation they need ? as the hon . Member know very well , access to social and affordable housing be a severe problem across the country . we work with many council , explain to they the covenant as a whole and the need for veteran to be fast - track . Op Fortitude be a prime example : there have be 3 , 000 referral , and 825 veteran have be put into housing in a relatively short time . I would like to connect the hon . member with that operation to ensure that we can point any veteran who need such support in the right direction . I visit Richard , a veteran , in his home , provide by the Derventio Housing Trust . the trust , base in Derby , offer home for people without they , include those who have serve in our armed force . volunteer from Derventio recently renovate a house in the city specifically for veteran . do the Minister agree that such support be vital , and will he tell we what the Government be do to help with the provision of housing , care and support for our veteran in need ? I congratulate the individual in that trust on support the veteran in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I have visit many different part of the UK and observe the phenomenal volunteer support that veteran often have to rely on . we want to establish a structure that will focus that support and also direct veteran to the help that they need more quickly and effectively , and we will unveil our plan in due course . will the Minister meet I , and other member of the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force , to discuss roll out the good practice of some fire authority to give those who have serve our country automatic interview for relevant role in the public sector ? it be a brilliant idea that would really benefit my constituent , and I think that all those who have go above and beyond to serve our country should be serve by all of we upon their return . that be a great initiative . service beyond service be something that we should be promote , and I will take that as good practice , have a look at it and see whether we can roll it out across the nation , so that when people leave the military they can secure at least a first interview for a role in the fire service , the police , the NHS or any other public service . I call the shadow Minister . veteran who serve in Northern Ireland will no doubt welcome the Veterans Minister ' s decision — first suggest by the shadow Defence Secretary — that the MOD should judicially review the recent coroner ' s verdict regard the shooting of several IRA terrorist at Clonoe . well do , I say , but why not go far to protect veteran , and drop the plan to revoke large part of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , which would only serve to facilitate yet more inquest of this type ? the right hon . Member make an important point . have visit Northern Ireland just two week ago , I share the concern of many veteran who have serve in Northern Ireland , particularly concern about the misinterpretation of the challenging context in which many of these inquest and inquiry be take place . I remind member on both side of the House that not so long ago , in the ' 70 , ' 80 and ' 90 , there be major explosion in every major city in the United Kingdom and assassination across the UK . Killings be a regular event in Northern Ireland , and we send our service personnel there to protect peace , save life and , indeed , prevent a civil war . the Minister mention both side of the House . revoke the legacy Act would encourage a system of two - tier justice — one for our Army veteran and another for alleged IRA terrorist , include those give so - call letter of comfort by the Blair regime . with many of those veteran have serve in proud regiment that traditionally recruit from red wall northern constituency , why should a Labour Government assist Gerry Adams to sue the british taxpayer ? how be that support those who serve their country valiantly on Operation Banner ? let we be absolutely clear : the right hon . Gentleman be look at an individual who serve his country on Operation Banner , so I understand the issue for all our veteran and I have be work very hard with the Northern Ireland Office to make sure that veteran ’ welfare and legal service be provide , so that anyone involve in any of the investigation get the support they require and that we can minimise the impact on what be quite a unique group of elderly veteran . defence of Undersea Infrastructure what step he be take to strengthen the UK ' s defence against threat to undersea infrastructure . what step he be take to strengthen the UK ' s defence against threat to undersea infrastructure . we be committed to maintain and enhance the security and resilience of critical undersea infrastructure . just as the Defence Secretary call out the activity of the russian spy ship Yantar hover over our undersea cable , let those who threaten the UK or our ally be in no doubt that we will defend our undersea infrastructure . this be one area that the strategic defence review be look at in order to enhance our homeland security . in January , I ask the Defence Secretary which single Minister be responsible for the security of offshore infrastructure . we know that Russia and China target interconnector and undersea cable , we know that Russia place listen device on our wind turbine to monitor submarine , and we know that China control the tech in the turbine that the Energy Secretary want to buy . the Defence Secretary could not answer I in January , and neither do the Prime Minister when I ask he early this month . when be we go to find out who be actually in charge ? there be no doubt in my mind that the Prime Minister be responsible for the security of this nation , and he delegate different area to different Departments . that be a completely normal way of deal with our national security . let we be absolutely clear : within Defence , we take this seriously and we work with colleague across department to make sure that we be not only secure our infrastructure from a defence perspective , but use our trade route to make sure that we be protect and buy the right technology and use our planning system to make sure that , where there be development , it do not impinge on our national security . the Minister will be well aware that 99 % of internet traffic be carry on undersea cable . clearly the Russians and other enemy would seek to disrupt that , so will the Minister look at utilise autonomous minesweeper that could be deploy to protect our undersea cable ? in particular , will he commit to look at introduce they in the Black sea , if there be a truce between Russia and Ukraine , so that those cable be protect as well ? that be part of the NATO infrastructure . the hon . Gentleman be right that subsea fibre - optic cable carry about 99 % of our datum — many people believe it be satellite , but it be cable . as a country we be invest in new technology and I expect that , as we get far towards the time when the defence review be publish , he will see the ambition we have as a Government to invest more in autonomous system , not only to support undersea cable protection , but to deal with the threat of russian submarine and other capability , and other threat to our nation . we will ensure that we invest in our defence capability and in support those people who serve as well . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . with escalating threat to our critical infrastructure , I be concern by report over the weekend that our armed force chief be apparently be gag over the upcoming strategic defence review , which have be describe by some as " limp " . I be fully aware that , recognise the danger , the Government have announce the large increase in defence spending since the end of the second world war , but at this critical time we certainly should not be sideline our service chief or penny - pinch on our nation ' s defence . would the Minister like to take this opportunity to reassure the nation that our strategic defence review , when publish , will be bold , ambitious and anything but limp ? absolutely . we live in incredibly difficult time , which be why this Government be meet the moment with increase defence spending and the big reform of our defence in 50 year . we be invest in new technology , and invest in the people who keep our country safe . from the most senior general and admiral down to private and sailor , we be give all our armed force a renew determination to make sure they understand how we defend our country in its good interest , but also that the nation back they in defend our country . there be further announcement to come , but let we all be in no doubt but that the whole House back our armed force and that we look forward to the further investment in defence that be come . I welcome the UK ' s leadership on this issue . the propose AQUIND interconnector raise serious concern about the security of UK undersea infrastructure , particularly give the significant political donation make by its owner to various conservative politician . far to the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , will the Minister confirm that protect domestic security will be a central focus of the SDR ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . I recently meet a cross - party delegation , include the Labour mps for Portsmouth — my hon . friend the Members for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) and for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) — and the Conservative MP for Fareham , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , to talk about the AQUIND interconnector . it be part of a planning decision be take by the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , so it be difficult for I to comment on , but let I be absolutely clear that we take defend our underwater infrastructure very seriously , and we will continue to make decision that support its defence . sexual Harassment what step he be take to protect female member of the armed force from sexual harassment . over the last 24 year , I have have the absolute privilege of work with amazing servicewoman across the armed force , and also with woman in the police , the NHS and , of course , our intelligence service . there be no place for unacceptable behaviour in defence — absolutely no place at all — and the woman who choose to serve deserve well . this government be take action . just last week , I announce the launch of the long call for tri - service complaint unit , which will sit outside the chain of command . the single service will therefore not be able to , nor be perceive to be able to , mark their own homework . I be work across Government , in particular with the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , on set up a defence violence against woman and girl taskforce . just two week ago , I meet the Women ' s Network , and I have also sit on the Raising our Standards panel of those from across trade and other organisation , the purpose of which be to really criticise we and pull forward any lesson learn from broad society . I thank the Minister for his response , and for the work he have do . the 2024 armed force continuous attitude survey report that 13 % of female personnel have experience sexual harassment in service during the prior 12 month , and many woman have say they would not report an incident due to fear of the consequence . the recently announce tri - service scheme be welcome , but what step be he take to make it genuinely independent to ensure woman ' s confidence in the scheme and their safety while serve in the armed force ? there be two principal element . the tri - service complaint system sit outside the chain of command , and when certain issue hit a threshold , they will be take away from the single service , so the system will be completely independent . the second be the violence against woman and girl taskforce that we have create , which will work directly to I . it will be a small team at my level , but it will have tentacle right down into the single service . it will provide a safe space for woman to go to if they want to raise an issue or a complaint , which can then be transfer into the complaint system or , indeed , in parallel all the way up to I so that I can take action directly . I thank the Minister , and I welcome the measure announce last week . my constituent in Monmouthshire and people across Wales would be interested to hear more from the Minister about the new violence against woman and girl taskforce , and the regional and national champion . how will they ensure that everyone who serve in the armed force can do so in safety ? I refer my hon . friend to my answer to the last question . the violence against woman and girl taskforce be take good practice from the rest of Government and ensure that it be replicate in defence , but it be actually go one step far and put a structure in place . as I always say , I be very young when I join the Marines , and I be catch up in this hierarchical situation . where do you go to make a complaint ? you don ' t actually have anywhere to go to make a complaint . the taskforce will provide a safe space , so that if people want to pop out of the chain of command to highlight a concern , it can be elevate quickly and deal with rapidly . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the creation of the violence against woman and girl taskforce , which be an important step towards enable complaint to be hear and address outside the chain of command , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) for raise this important issue . like the taskforce , the Government have commit to a new veteran strategy focus specifically on the experience of woman who have leave the service . will the Minister outline the timescale for the development and implementation of that strategy , give how vital it be that woman come and serve in the armed force , and that they feel safe and secure in do so ? as part of our future veteran strategy , a woman veteran annexe will provide specific guidance on female want to leave the armed force . it be also important to mention that we be not just set up the violence against woman and girl taskforce ; we have the sexual harassment survey go out , the tri - service complaint system , the review of our zero - tolerance policy by a KC to move to 100 % action , an international culture and behaviour conference to learn good lesson from our international partner , and the modernisation of our military appraisal system to ensure that people who get involve in unacceptable behaviour be track through the system so they can be hold to account . NATO Defence Industrial Capacity what discussion he have have with his NATO counterpart on increase defence industrial capacity across the alliance . the Defence Secretary raise this issue at the meeting of all NATO Defence Ministers in February and have hold a number of discussion with NATO ally since , include with the US Secretary of Defence and in meeting with joint expeditionary force and e5 ally . european ally be step up within NATO , and the UK be lead effort to increase defence spending and expand defence industrial capacity . I concur with my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) that it be deeply disappointing that France have block European Union country from allow SAFE — Security Action for Europe — fund to be use for the procurement of british weapon . with that in mind , what have the Minister do to ensure that action be be take to guarantee a multilateral , NATO - wide procurement strategy , with the UK at its centre ? I have meet a number of my equivalent bilaterally , but it be important to say that we welcome the ReArm initiative and that it be in all our interest for SAFE to allow member state to partner with the UK . we will continue to emphasise the need for EU defence financing and wide defence industrial initiative to include third country like the UK . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say in answer to an early question , we want to conclude a UK - EU defence and security pact that will give we access to that scheme . I thank the Minister for her response . last week , the Defence Committee meet the Chief of the General Staff , who highlight the challenge of support our troop in Estonia . I highlight the Rail Baltica project , which receive significant funding from the EU ' s Connecting Europe Facility and NATO , and which link my constituency , via High Speed 1 , right through to the Baltics use british steel . will the Minister meet I to discuss support the expansion of HS1 capacity , as it be the type of opportunity that would support growth within our defence industrial capacity , improve our deterrence and increase our commitment to our european ally , while bring high quality job to east London ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . as I hope hon . member from around the House be start to realise , if I be ask for a meeting my general answer be yes . I be very happy to meet he . Armed Forces Recruitment what step he be take to increase recruitment to the armed force . we inherit a broken recruitment system from the Conservatives . we promise to take step to fix it and we be : the large pay increase in 20 year for those who serve ; a 35 % pay increase for recruit ; the scrapping of over 100 outdated medical practice ; the creation of a new direct entry cyber - pathway ; a conditional offer within 10 day of apply ; a training start date within 30 day ; and the announcement of a new tri - service recruitment scheme to attract the very good to our armed force . I thank the Minister for his response . my constituency have a proud military history . give the need to expand our armed force , how can we help a new generation of young people in Dartford to access highly skilled and rewarding career across all the armed force ? not only be a career in our armed force good for a young person ; it also offer training opportunity , with each of our single service appear in the top five apprentice employer — the very good in our country . a career in the defence industry be also good for our young people . the ability to move between regular , reserve and industry more frequently and more easily not only secure the national defence of our country and provide more opportunity for our young people , but mean that defence can be an even well and big engine for growth . those be the proposal we will be come forward with in due course . in recent year , for every 100 serviceman recruit , 130 have leave . that be completely unsustainable . what be the Minister do to ensure that we retain more troop , with not only the package within our armed force , but competitive package in the private sector ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely right about the terrible state of armed force retention that we inherit . we have see armed force morale drop from 60 % in 2010 to just 40 % last July . we need to invest more in our armed force , which be why we have introduce the big pay rise in 20 year and why we be bring defence housing back under public control , so that it can be invest in . it be also why we be create the Armed Forces Commissioner , who will provide an independent champion for service welfare matter for those who serve . we do need to invest more , which be why my ministerial colleague and I have create an armed force recruitment and retention board within the MOD to focus effort on improve service life for all those who serve and their family . domestic Abuse : Defence Personnel what step he be take to support defence personnel affect by domestic abuse . as I mention early , we be move forward with our woman and girl taskforce to drive progress on the Government ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . last year , we launch the Ministry of Defence ' s domestic abuse action plan and train more than 700 service police in specialist domestic abuse and coercive control training , and now everybody in the military — every man and woman across the armed force — go through unacceptable sexual behaviour training . accord to King ' s College London , one in 10 of our armed force personnel be a survivor of domestic abuse , but , because there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in the law , the Ministry of Justice have confirm that it can not comprehensively identify perpetrator , and can not therefore comprehensively rehabilitate they and keep victim and survivor safe . will the Minister join I and colleague across the House in campaign for a specific offence of domestic abuse in the law so that we can well protect our armed force personnel from domestic abuse ? it be completely clear to I that any sort of domestic abuse in any way , shape or form in the armed force be completely unacceptable . if we can help to address and track some of that through the armed force , it will make it far easy to deal with and ensure rehabilitation . I will take this conversation on after these question . US Cyber - operation against Russia if he will make an assessment of the potential impact of the pause in offensive cyber - operation against Russia by the US on security in Europe . UK defence network face a range of state threat from malign actor . in 2024 , the National Cyber Security Centre receive 1 , 957 report of cyber - attack , of which 89 be nationally significant , with 12 severe in nature . the Government continue to improve resilience and response option to those threat . as part of the armed force parliamentary scheme , together with colleague , I recently visit the 77th Brigade and learn more about the amazing work the man and woman of the brigade be do to tackle russian disinformation in eastern Europe and elsewhere . the trip come just a few day after the United States President announce his decision to cease american offensive cyber - operation against Russia over disinformation altogether , which have lead to grow concern that willing country do not have the capacity or ability to tackle that particular threat . will the Minister tell we what assessment have be make of the capability that we have in the United Kingdom to tackle that threat , and do he agree that it place great pressure on the 77th Brigade and other agency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the 77th Brigade do a superb job of tackle disinformation , especially by malign actor . we need to expand our provision and range of capability , which be precisely why we have create a new direct entry cyber - pathway to recruit people directly into our cyber - force to support our national resilience in both defensive and offensive operation . the hon . Gentleman will understand that I can not talk about ongoing operation , but I can say that we be invest more in this area to keep ourselves and our ally safe . with GCHQ , the UK ' s cyber - operation be genuinely world - leading . what assurance can the Minister give the House that we will continue to support Ukraine with our cyber - security ? we have make it very clear that we will continue support Ukraine , not only to put it in the good possible position on the battlefield and in any negotiation to come , but to secure its critical national infrastructure . we will continue work with Ukraine ' s defence and civilian sector , which be incredibly impressive in this area , to make sure that it have the technology , training and access to support to keep its country safe . EU Defence and Security Agreement if he will make it his policy to negotiate a defence and security agreement with the EU . when the british public elect we as the new Government , we say that Labour will seek an ambitious new UK - EU security pact to strengthen co - operation on the threat that we face and will rebuild relationship with key european ally . with NATO as the cornerstone of our security in Europe , that be exactly what we be do . I thank the Secretary of State for his response . give President Trump ' s increase unpredictability and shift policy , can the Secretary of State share how the Government be strengthen defence procurement agreement with european partner to enhance our capability and reduce our reliance on the United States ? when I speak last week with High Representative Kallas and Commissioner Kubilius , that be exactly what I discuss : close defence collaboration that will see a strong european effort , with the UK and the EU , but within the NATO framework , which be the cornerstone for all of we to keep ourselves safe . my constituent have steadfastly support the people of Ukraine since Russia ' s illegal invasion . can the Secretary of State confirm that collective support for Ukraine will be a major focus of his discussion with EU counterpart and that under this Government the UK will always lead the way in step up support for Ukraine ? indeed , I can . my hon . friend make an important point . this period be critical for Ukraine and for european security . I hope that he see a UK Government who be step up to provide strong support for Ukraine , co - ordinating ally to do more , step up on european security , and above all step up on defence spending . I call Liberal Democrat spokesperson . we support the Government ' s commitment to strengthen defence tie with our european partner , but they need to go far and fast to ensure that the UK do not get leave behind . have the Defence Secretary speak with his counterpart in the EU about the value of the new stand - alone UK - EU defence pact , which will enable the UK to well influence decision around new finance programme , such as a rearmament bank to support defence investment across Europe ? yes . last week I meet with High Representative Kallas and speak with Commissioner Kubilius , and that be exactly the subject of our conversation . joint Expeditionary Force what discussion he have have with his european counterpart on the joint expeditionary force . the UK be fully commit to the joint expeditionary force . I discuss the JEF on my visit to Denmark , Latvia , Finland , Lithuania and the Netherlands last month . I meet regularly with the JEF partner ' defence attach é s , include last week . I thank the Minister for his answer . clearly we have a particularly good relationship with the country that make up the joint expeditionary force . the Minister and I have complete the armed force parliamentary scheme and be both plunge into the snowdrift in Norway at Bardufoss . some of the kit that the Norwegians have be particularly impressive , as I be sure the Minister would agree . could I press he on what work we can do with the country in the joint expeditionary force on procurement , design and perhaps development of equipment ? just to clarify for the House , they be different snowdrift at different time — otherwise there could be story ! the more procurement we can do with our ally , the well — not only in how interoperable the equipment will be but in its interchangeability . with p - 8s , F - 35s and potentially Type 26 frigate be share by common nation in the High North , there be a huge opportunity to work together more closely , create more job and more effective deterrent against russian aggression . cadet : Career Preparation what step his Department be take to help prepare cadet for potential career in the armed force . I have visit multiple cadet unit all over the country and have be truly astounded at the social mobility that the cadet provide for a whole range of young people . we have over 140 , 000 cadet at the moment , support by 26 , 000 volunteer . we be do everything we can to look to expand those programme over time and ensure that the opportunity be available for everybody , from every walk of life . in my new role as the chair of the British Shooting Sports Council , I take a keen interest in cadet target rifle shoot . the Minister will be aware that the Ministry of Defence be propose to withdraw from service the 7 . 62 cadet target rifle from 2026 , and the . 22 rifle just two year later . aside from depriving cadet from the opportunity to learn the highly disciplined and valuable skill of firearm safety and use , the proposal call into question the future of target rifle shoot in the UK . will the Minister meet I and representative of the shooting and target rifle community to discuss opportunity to reverse this decision ? I will happily come and talk through that in due course . I have be in the military for 24 year and have spend a lot of time shooting , and I can see its benefit . defence procurement : sme what step he be take to ensure small and medium enterprise be able to participate in defence procurement contract . sme can help we make defence an engine for growth in all our nation and region . I want far more involvement from sme in our procurement , provide agility , innovation and resilience as we seek to ramp up our industrial production . that be why the Prime Minister recently launch a new defence SME support hub , and commit we to publish a new target for MOD spend with sme . last week , as part of the armed force parliamentary scheme , I have the privilege of visit his Majesty ' s Royal Naval Base in Portsmouth , to meet personnel and see equipment use by our armed force that be make by Accuracy International and SIG Sauer , an SME firearm manufacturer in my constituency . Accuracy International employ more than 100 local people . what be the Minister do to ensure that company such as Accuracy International and SIG Sauer be give a fair shot in defence procurement and can continue to provide job in my city ? a fair shot — I commend my hon . friend on her pun . Accuracy International have make a great contribution to UK defence and export . I have be talk to defence firm , many of which be sme , during the defence industrial strategy consultation . I hope that the change that we will make to speed up procurement and provide more access to opportunity will transform their chance of do business with we , while make defence an engine for growth across all our nation and region . we be shortly to appoint a national armament director with a salary of more than £ 600 , 000 a year . I hope that that colossal salary come with the mandate to be able to tear up the book on defence procurement as we rearm the nation . will the Minister reassure I that when we get the national armament director back to the Defence Committee in a year ' s time , they will not say , " well , we try to change thing , but they wouldn ' t let I " ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that we be tear up the way in which procurement work before the national armament director move into his place . it be one of the big job in government , which need the right salary to attract the right person . I be clear that we will do thing differently . the national armament director will be hold accountable for ensure that we do so . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . a lot have happen since the last defence oral question six week ago . the Prime Minister announce the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war , hit 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 and 3 % in the next Parliament . I chair the Ukraine defence contact group of nearly 50 country — the first European Defence Minister to do so — which secure an extra € 1 . 5 billion of military support for Ukraine . with France , the UK be lead plan to put together a coalition of the willing to secure a peace deal in Ukraine ; 31 nation join a planning meeting last week at the permanent joint headquarters , and there be further meeting there this week as we accelerate that planning . this be a Government step up on european security , on Ukraine , on defence spending and in all area . this be UK leadership in action . the Government ' s commitment to use defence procurement to strengthen our industrial sector be welcome . will the Secretary of State please outline how the Government be support local manufacturer across the UK and ensure that defence contract contribute to long - term industrial growth and job creation ? in particular , how be they encourage and support company such as Pargat Housewares in my constituency , which be a private , ethnic minority - own business and one of the UK ' s large producer of pot , pan and bakeware use advanced and extremely energy - efficient technique ? my hon . friend be right that sme be often the driver of productivity and innovation . we recently announce that we will be set target for an increase share of defence contract to go to sme , alongside the formation of a new defence innovation office . I call the shadow Secretary of State . if our force go to Ukraine , it will be as part of a peacekeeping mission , but , as the Veterans Minister remind we early , Operation Banner be also describe as peacekeeping , yet decade later those who serve be be hound in our court . our soldier in Iraq be subject to hundred of vexatious claim . if our force go to Ukraine , will the Secretary of State consider a derogation from the european convention on human right so as to maximise our protection against possible lawfare ? if we go into Ukraine , we will be go into a negotiate peace , not a shoot war . our aim be to secure border , to ensure safe sky and to ensure safe sea . be the hon . Gentleman say that he will not support a UK mission and UK troop without that derogation ? of course not . the Secretary of State know perfectly well that the Labour Government derogate from the echr after 9 / 11 , and a country in Europe have derogate from the echr since 2015 . that country be Ukraine , and that be because there be a war on . surely he recognise that , even if it be a peacekeeping force , there will still be threat , and russian national have be particularly adept at lawfare in our own court . surely he will at least consider give the maximum protection to our armed force from vexatious claim by derogate from the echr if there be a deployment . our armed force will always have our full support . just to be clear to the hon . Gentleman , we , alongside France , be put together a coalition of the willing , respond to the challenge from the US for Europe to step up on Ukraine . we be respond to the requirement from Ukraine for security arrangement that will give it the conviction and confidence that any negotiate peace will last . that be a worthy mission , and it be one that the UK be lead . I hope that it have the support of both side of the House . our troop must be able to trust the body armour that they wear to keep they safe . will the Minister for the Armed Forces update the House on how withdraw crack enhanced combat body armour be go and on when everyone in our force can expect to know that their body armour be safe ? I fully agree with my hon . friend and , on something as fundamental as body armour , we back our troop . I order immediate action to replace ecba on the frontline , fly new body armour to unit worldwide . rapid testing of plate be under way . our people should know that their safety matter to the Government , and we will act to keep they safe . last week , it be announce that the SNP Government be send more shipbuilding contract abroad . seven CalMac ferry that could be construct on the Clyde will instead be build in Poland . will the Minister share how many warship the United Kingdom Government be currently build in Scotland ? as the hon . Gentleman will probably know , type 31 be be build at Rosyth and Type 26 be be build at Govan . we have get a programme for eight at Govan , and five so far at Rosyth — that be the current number . as you know all too well , Mr Speaker , Lancashire have a proud defence manufacturing pedigree at the cutting edge of our british sovereign capability — you think manufacture and you think Lancashire . will the Minister for Defence Procurement continue to champion Lancashire ' s defence job ? will she commit — I understand that this be cheeky — to replace tranche 1 Typhoon aircraft with new , modern Lancashire - make Typhoons ? I commend my hon . friend for ask that question . he will know that the strategic defence review be consider our current mix of fourth and fifth - generation aircraft . he will also know that , in addition to the Typhoon , 15 % of the F - 35s as well as 37 % of the Typhoons be make in Lancashire , so there be work aplenty in Lancashire , no matter which aeroplane be buy . my constituent Sam serve in Afghanistan and suffer from PTSD . although he be entitle to compensation , his condition have leave he struggle with the form and , 10 year on , he have be tell that he can have only £ 600 , when he be entitle to thousand . can the Minister explain what step be be take to ensure that those who give so much serve our country be help to access the financial assistance they be entitle to , and not block by bureaucracy ? that be a really valid question . we pay out more than £ 1 . 5 billion a year in compensation through the armed force compensation scheme and the war pension scheme . if the hon . Member want to write to I on that specific case , I can have a look into it . I also refer she to Op Courage , which be link to mental health and have have 34 , 000 referral to date . do the Minister agree that expand our military expenditure create a golden opportunity to deal with the shortage of people go into science , technology and engineering job , and that as we expand the military budget , we should make sure that the defence industry expand the number of apprenticeship and build a robust skill and training base so that young people can benefit from those job ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . of course , there be skill shortage across much of manufacturing , not only in defence , so there be certainly go to be an issue . I can tell he that the apprentice I have meet in the defence industry tend to smile the whole time . they be get extremely good training for lifelong excellent job , so I be absolutely certain that we can get that across to young people and ensure that defence get its fair share of the skilled people that we need . with the UK freeze out of the EU rearmament scheme while defence contractor and security firm in Albania , Norway and South Korea stand to benefit , what estimate have the Secretary of State make of the potential loss of economic activity in the UK as a result ? the strong argument for say that there need to be UK collaboration and co - operation with the EU and across Europe be that some of our good capability , from the Typhoon and the Meteor to Storm Shadow , have be develop through multinational effort include the UK . it be that sort of collaboration that we want to secure for the future , and the EU White Paper give we a basis for start to negotiate that . we be incredibly proud of our veteran in Peterborough . will the Minister join I in recognise the work of Councillor Jason McNally , our armed force champion , and his predecessor , Councillor John Fox , and tell we what more the Government can do to help they to support more people sign up to the armed force covenant ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight two amazing individual who I imagine be put a huge number of hour into support the veteran community and the armed force community . the covenant will come into law in 2026 , and when it do , we need to ensure that those armed force champion understand what it provide at local level and can harness its benefit for the whole of the armed force . the Hawk aircraft , most famous in the scarlet livery of the Red Arrows , be at the end of its service life . can minister explain what step they be take to ensure that we replace it with a British - build sovereign capability ? the hon . Gentleman be right to say that Hawk be due to be out of service in the early 2030 . we be take step to consider what the alternative might be , and we of will course consider any UK option that exist . I can not tell he what the answer to that be yet , but it be under active consideration . those who bravely serve in our force should never lose their say in our country ' s future , so I welcome the Government ' s swift action to introduce the ability to use the veteran ID card as voter ID . may I ask the Minister what plan there be to ensure that veteran around the country be aware of this important change ? the veteran ID card be a fantastic initiative that have now be roll out for most veteran . we have thousand of application a week and will continue to endeavour to ensure that they get deliver in the most timely and effective manner . anybody who be interested in veteran ’ welfare issue or the service available should go to the gov . uk website and type in " veteran support " , and there will be a plethora of different avenue for they to unlock . Mid Norfolk be a proud rural and military constituency with many employee work at RAF Marham and Swanton Morley barracks , which be home to the Queen ' s Dragoon Guards and many cadet and veteran . a few year ago , we manage to secure the extension of Swanton Morley barracks , which have be schedule for closure . do the welcome defence surge mean that its closure , slate for 2031 , might be review ? I can not give the hon . Gentleman an answer right now , but I be certainly happy to look into it and meet he , if he want a meeting , or write to he . I have a number of nuclear veteran in my Na h - Eileanan an Iar constituency , as many colleague do in their constituency . what step be minister take to meet veteran , acknowledge their service and deal with the consequence of their service and their exposure to nuclear material ? I have meet nuclear test veteran from two of the main charity , and I will continue to do so regularly to ensure that there be continuity of engagement . we have promise to do two thing . one be a full and thorough review of the record — not a stovepipe look , but a whole review . that will take a bit of time , but we will do that in a thorough manner . the second be consistent engagement to ensure that people be inform of our progress . President Macron have block british firm from the new EU defence fund . what be the Secretary of State ' s view on this act of solidarity ? that be just not accurate . there be a new proposal for a strategy from the European Union , and it have opportunity for third country such as the UK to participate . our discussion demonstrate the importance of the UK be able to collaborate industrially and as a Government to meet the threat we face . do the Secretary of State agree that when we discuss procurement and british - make weapon , we also need to consider our responsibility and legal duty in relation to the issuing of arm licence ? do he agree that now be the time to talk about end all arm sale to Israel ? we keep all our arm export constantly under review . we have make decision on a limited number of export in relation to Israel . that position of keep thing under review continue , but we have no plan at this stage to make any change . staff Sergeant Peter Cluff die in February 2016 , with an in - service designation to that death . his widow , Kirsty , and his child , Meredith and Heather , be in the benefit of the armed force pension scheme and remain so . however , the scheme make a miscalculation and have send debt collector to they to try to recover a fairly small sum . I ask about the matter three month ago and have not have a response from the Department . will the Secretary of State or one of his Ministers meet I to discuss this unedifye advert for the Ministry of Defence ? that be a truly harrowing story . I will absolutely take that on , and we will meet straight after this and get it solve . the recent report " a Dark Shadow " shine a light on the link between sexual assault and suicidal ideation in the military community . I be therefore pleased to see the announcement from the MOD last week about the removal of sexual harassment investigation from the chain of command — something for which campaigner and survivor have campaign for such a long time . they be also keen to have reassurance , however . will the Minister confirm that this be not a continuation of the previous Government ' s fail effort , but a step change in make the process truly independent ? this absolutely be a step change . a tri - service complaint system , remove from the single service , have be call for for a long time . we have take decisive action to do that , and it will move thing in the right direction . combine that with the violence against woman and girl taskforce , and we be double - tap to ensure that we have the good support for woman and , indeed , anyone else in the armed force . concern have be grow over China ' s aggression in the Indo - Pacific region . give the strategic importance of the Taiwan strait to global security , what have be the Department ' s response to those rise tension ? we be certainly of the view that any difficulty in the Taiwan strait should be resolve diplomatically , without the use of force or coercion . the United Kingdom will deploy our carrier strike group to the Indo - Pacific later this year as a projection of our responsibility to the region and to make it clear that difficulty be well resolve diplomatically . on Friday I be pleased to join colleague from across the House to hear the Royal Marines band service in concert as part of the Mountbatten festival of music . may I invite the Government to reaffirm their commitment to the Royal Marines band service ? it make a huge contribution to defence diplomacy and combat operation . that be a great question . the Royal Marine band service be the good band service in our armed force , and it be absolutely safe under our watch . it provide a fantastic influence opportunity , as well as essential military service outside the musical profession . the Defence Secretary should know that the whole House support the Government ' s action to preserve peace in Ukraine , but that be not the point that the shadow Secretary of State be make . he be ask whether the Ministry of Defence recognise that it have a duty of care towards soldier who fight for their country and then face decade of lawfare and the misuse of the european convention on human right . will the Ministry do something to protect those soldier ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman that we be totally committed to our duty of care and to stand by our force . we also recognise that the previous Government put in place legislation — the Overseas Operations ( Service Personnel and Veterans ) Act 2021 — to deal with any concern in this place . drug - resistant infection have be rise in Ukraine and remain a challenge in treat wound soldier and get they back to the frontline . such infection have also spread outside Ukraine and into Europe . in the context of conflict , what step be the Minister and the Department take to ensure that antimicrobial resistance be appropriately consider in the national security strategy ? it be important that we meet the threat we face , which be not just from state actor but relate to a range of issue . I would be very happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss her interest in this topic far . this afternoon I be contact by the father of Theodore , who live in Grayshott in my constituency . Theodore want to go to the Army Foundation College in Harrogate in September , but Capita have not send the request for his medical record to his local surgery . will the Minister look in general at how Capita be perform , and will he ensure in particular that Theodore can attend the foundation college in September ? I commend Theodore for his interest in attend Harrogate . if the hon . Gentleman write to I , I will happily to look into it . as he will know , Capita be not continue the Army recruitment work . it be be replace by a new tri - service offer that will come online in 2027 . disruption at Heathrow with permission , Mr Speaker , I wish to make a statement regard the power outage , cause by a substation fire , that impact on Heathrow airport operation on Friday 21 March . I begin by acknowledge the disruption to everyone affect by this incident . many home , school and business temporarily lose power , some family have have to evacuate their home , and many thousand have have their travel plan impact . I thank the firefighter and emergency responder who work in difficult condition to put the fire out , as well as Heathrow , the National Grid and all the other public service involve for work so hard to get power back on and people back travel again . this be an unprecedented event , and we must learn any and all lesson we can to ensure that it do not recur . let I begin by set out what we currently know about the cause of the incident . a large fire break out at North Hyde substation at 11 . 30 pm on Thursday 20 March , and be bring under control the follow day . due to the impact , Heathrow airport announce at 4 . 30 be on Friday that it would close until midnight that day . power be restore to domestic customer in a matter of hour , after the operator of the local distribution network , Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks , redistribute power through other part of the network . by comparison , Heathrow be one of the country ' s big consumer of electricity and require as much power as a small city . what we know be that there be an unprecedented outage , and that it be not the result of a single point of failure on the electricity transmission or distribution system . the feed from North Hyde substation be one of three supply point to Heathrow , and the fire cause exceptional damage that take the whole substation out of service . the other supply point continue supply to Heathrow airport throughout the incident . heathrow ' s view be that that supply be insufficient to ensure the safe and secure ongoing operation of all system across the whole airport . it proceed to reconfigure its internal electricity network to enable the resumption of full operation , utilise the other two external supply point . that require hundred of system to be safely power down , and then safely power up , with extensive testing . the airport have a range of back - up generator and uninterruptible power supply , include diesel generator , to provide power to essential system to enable they safely to land plane . those back - up system ensure that safety and security system and protocol be maintain at all time , but they be never design to support full operation of the whole airport . by 2 . 30 on Friday afternoon , Heathrow begin restart system to ensure that they be safely operate . by 4 pm , the airport be 100 % confident that all system be safely operate across the whole network , and announce that some flight would be able to restart that day . the first flight , from about 6 pm , be so - call position flight , which be to get aircraft and crew to the right place to resume normal operation the follow day . that be follow by flight divert to UK and non - UK airport , to allow passenger to be repatriate , and a small number of outbound long - haul flight . since Saturday , Heathrow have be fully operational , with more than 250 , 000 passenger able to fly to and from the airport on Saturday . due to knock - on impact of the event , there continue to be some delay and cancellation over the weekend . overall , the impact of heathrow ' s closure lead to over 1 , 300 flight and more than 200 , 000 passenger have their flight cancel or divert on Friday , and a further 110 cancel on Saturday . the Government be acutely aware of the need to ensure that passenger be well look after and their consumer right protect . this be why UK law ensure that airline must provide passenger with a refund within seven day , or passenger must be reroute to their destination under the same condition . we be closely monitor to ensure that passenger be properly support . to support the recovery , my Department temporarily lift restriction on overnight flight , to ease congestion . heathrow and airline also add extra capacity into the system to help affected passenger . we allow rail ticket to be use flexibly to help passenger who be not able to use their original ticket . regard the cause of the fire , the Metropolitan police confirm that the fire be not believe to be suspicious . however , due to the location of the substation and the impact that this incident have have on critical national infrastructure , the Met ' s counter terrorism command be lead our inquiry into this matter . this be due to the specialist resource and capability within that command , which can assist in progress the investigation at pace to help minimise disruption and identify the cause . it would not be appropriate to comment far while these investigation continue , but we will of course update the House once it be appropriate to do so . although it be positive that electricity supply be restore quickly , there will be learning to ensure that we avoid such incident reoccurre . that be why on Saturday , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , work with Ofgem , commission the independent National Energy System Operator to urgently investigate the incident . the review will also seek to understand any wide lesson to be learn for energy resilience for critical national infrastructure . NESO have be ask to report back to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero with initial finding within six week . in addition , Heathrow have ask Ruth Kelly , a former Secretary of State for Transport and an independent member of Heathrow ' s board , to undertake a review of its internal resilience . the Kelly review will analyse the robustness and execution of Heathrow ' s crisis management plan , the airport ' s response , and how it recover the operation . colleague across the House will appreciate that we do not yet know everything there be to know about the incident , but I will try to answer question from hon . member in as much detail as possible base on the late information I have at my disposal . I commend the statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for advance sight of it . I join she in extend my gratitude to the firefighter who respond so swiftly to the incident . I extend my sympathy to everybody affect by the disruption and place on record my thank to all those at Heathrow who work diligently to ensure that the airport come back on line over the weekend . the loss of power in the Heathrow area cause significant disruption for thousand of traveller and countless business . Heathrow be one of the world ' s busy airport and Europe ' s busy air hub . it be schedule to handle 1 , 351 flight , carry up to 291 , 000 passenger on Friday . however , as we know , the fire at a nearby electrical substation force plane to be divert to other airport , with many long - haul flight return to their point of departure . the financial cost of the shutdown to the airline industry be expect to total ten of million of pound , and there be significant question mark over the airport ' s possible vulnerability to further disruption in the future . before we discuss the specific of the incident , I ask the Secretary of State to confirm that she will remain engaged with Heathrow , the airline and other key stakeholder throughout this period to minimise the impact on passenger and the economy . I note that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , whom I be pleased to see in his place , have instruct NESO to investigate the incident urgently . it be crucial that NESO ' s investigation deliver a clear and objective assessment of the incident ' s circumstance and the UK ' s broad energy resilience . I ask the Government to keep the House inform as that investigation develop . I also note that the Secretary of State for Transport will closely monitor Heathrow ' s internal investigation into the incident . she be right to do so . although I trust that she will share any conclusion draw from the report with the House , may I ask that she provide specific assurance today that she will indeed do so ? let I focus on the detail of the incident , which evidently raise significant concern about the resilience of Heathrow airport and critical infrastructure in general . on Heathrow ' s resilience , important question arise about why the airport be dependent on a single electrical substation , which prove so vulnerable to such an incident . I understand from medium report and from the Secretary of State ' s statement that although two additional substation be capable of power the airport , do so would require reconfigure the power supply structure for all terminal . do the Secretary of State believe that that set - up be appropriate for the country ' s large airport ? additionally , what assessment have she make of the power supply resilience of other major UK airport ? with regard to the resilience of our critical national infrastructure , the episode underline the urgent need to ensure that our critical infrastructure be safeguard against both accidental incident and deliberate act of sabotage by malign actor . hon . member will recall that when President Putin launch his illegal invasion of Ukraine , global energy market face immense disruption , which pose the most significant threat to european energy security since the 1970 . despite that upheaval , Britain ' s energy price remain broadly stable , but only because the Government of the day take decisive action to protect business and household from price spike as far as possible . that come at a significant financial cost . the event at Heathrow remind we that true energy security depend not only on price stability but on the physical safety of our energy infrastructure . give the crucial role of airport in our economy , we must remain vigilant . in the light of that , what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero about ensure that the energy supply to major airport remain secure ? what be the timeline for the Kelly review , and will its finding be make publicly available ? will the Secretary of State engage with colleague across Government Departments to assess and mitigate the risk pose by malicious actor who will undoubtedly have take note of this weekend ' s event ? finally , what specific step will she take to strengthen the resilience of our critical national infrastructure ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the tone of his comment . I assure he and other member of this House that I will do everything I can to keep they update , and I will continue the engagement I have have with Heathrow since the incident first become know to I . I speak to the chief executive of Heathrow on Friday morning and again today . if my official can do anything to assist those on the Opposition Front Bench in understand this very serious issue , I be willing to facilitate any such meeting that the hon . Gentleman wish to have . on the internal investigation that the London Heathrow board have commission Ruth Kelly to do , as the hon . Gentleman know , I have ask to see a copy of that report . assume that I have the permission of Heathrow to share it more broadly , I be happy to share its content with he and the House . on his question about whether I be content with and confident about the set - up for airport power supply , I be not go to become an armchair electrical engineer ; I want to see the report that have be commission by the airport and the report that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy have commission from NESO . we be also conduct a resilience review of critical national infrastructure via the Cabinet Office , and I assure the hon . Gentleman that we will look at any and all the issue that this incident raise in those review . I speak with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy on Friday evening , and I assure the hon . Gentleman that I will continue to engage across Government on any of the issue that this incident raise . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I thank the Transport Secretary for her statement . I also thank the fire service and the airport and airline staff who do so much over the weekend to address and support the situation and ensure that it do not get any bad . we will have a Committee session next week with the chief exec of Heathrow airport and other . we also look forward to ask the Secretary of State more question when she come to we after the Easter recess , by which time I hope that she and I will be well genne up on electrical engineering . there have be talk this weekend about the single point of failure . in this case , that be about not just a particular electricity substation but what happen when our busy airport close . all our airport — critical national infrastructure — have an impact when they be at risk . I be tell that the next airport national policy statement , like the last one , will cover only Heathrow . be it not time that we have a national airport strategy to include what happen when any one of our airport be take out of action ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , the Chair of the Transport Committee , for her remark . the airport national policy statement be a site - specific document , but I will reflect on her suggestion of a wide airport strategy ; I be sure that we will discuss it far when I be in front of her Committee in a couple of week ' time . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . I echo her word and those of other in express my gratitude to the firefighter and other emergency worker who fight the fire and to the airport , airline and other staff for all their hard work in the face of this catastrophic system failure . what have happen be clearly a rare occurrence , but it raise a number of significant question about the security and management of our critical national infrastructure . while I be pleased to hear that no foul play be currently suspect , the event have reveal vulnerability in our national security that may be exploit in future by terrorist and hostile state actor . it be consequently vital that lesson be learn to ensure that an incident like this do not happen again , and I welcome the announcement of a full investigation . it be deeply concern that the failure of a single piece of infrastructure have take down the entire airport . heathrow be connect to three substation , and while two be impact , the third be run and have enough capacity — think to be around 72 MW — to power the whole of Heathrow , which require a little more than 40 MW . it be evident that Heathrow ' s power set - up could not be swiftly reconfigure to allow the third substation to be use . we need to understand why that be , and whether it could be remedie in future . while Heathrow claim that it be normal for airport not to have sufficient back - up capacity to power all of their need , other industry that require even more power than Heathrow — such as datum centre — take more robust step to ensure they have sufficient back - up system to counter such failure . should our key international transport hub not have the same safeguard ? we must also not forget those whose journey be disrupt . it be estimate that over 200 , 000 passenger have be impact by the event . however , under current regulation , most of those passenger will not be eligible for compensation . as such , I have three question for the Secretary of State . first , what impact , if any , will this incident have on the Government ' s plan for expansion at Heathrow ? can the national grid infrastructure cope with a third runway , or will the airport become more prone to failure ? secondly , do the Secretary of State believe that UK airport should be take step to increase their back - up capacity , in order to ensure that an incident like this do not happen again ? thirdly , do she believe that the current regulation around passenger compensation be sufficient ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . the question of heathrow expansion and this very rare — unprecedented — event be two entirely separate issue . he will be aware that the Government have invite Heathrow to bring forward proposal for a third runway , and we will review the airport national policy statement after that . with regard to back - up capacity at airport , I be tell that the back - up power system at Heathrow operate as they should have do during this incident — they do not fail . I do not want to come to knee - jerk conclusion as a result of this unprecedented incident , but we will be look very closely at the two review I mention in my statement . I have also work with the Civil Aviation Authority to ensure that passenger who have be affect by this disruption be aware of their right . heathrow be in my constituency , as be the substation that catch fire , so I join other Members in thank the firefighter who work so hard to get this incident under control so quickly and at some risk . I also thank the police and the council officer who help to evacuate 150 of my constituent from their home . I be there on the day and meet some of the resident , and I will be write to they all so that we can pick up lesson from what they experience on that day and build those lesson in . now that this site have gain such a high profile , there be concern about its security for the future . I would welcome some more detailed information come out of the inquiry about how we will secure the site for the future , not just from accident but from potential attack . my right hon . friend raise a fair point . I will ensure that we provide that information to he once we have review the different report that be go to be publish over the next couple of month . the Secretary of State mention consumer right . not only be Heathrow customer delay and disrupt , but they be rip off , with huge hike for alternative flight , car hire and hotel . be it not time that the Government bring forward robust anti - price - gouging legislation ? in fairness to the Secretary of State and Labour Front Benchers , I also ask the previous Government , who do absolutely zero on this issue as well . [ laughter . ] it be true , and I think we see the result of that in many other way . on behalf of the british consumer and international consumer , many of whom have be rip off through no fault of their own as a result of this incident , be it not time that for new legislation ? should we not also carry out a wide review of the monopoly hold by the operator of hotel at Heathrow and the lack of competition among airline come into Heathrow ? I can categorically say that it would not be right for anyone or any business to capitalise on this disruption . whether airline or hotel , I would expect organisation to be do everything they can to support traveller who have be disrupt by this incident . the Secretary of State ' s statement underline why it be important to avoid speculation in the immediate aftermath of a critical incident such as this . can she reassure the House that if any systematic risk be identify that potentially affect other major airport , there will be a co - ordinate response ? if any such issue be identify at regional and local airport , will member of this House in proximity to those airport be keep inform ? I be happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . of course , this be not the first time there have be a problem with Heathrow . back in August 2023 , UK air traffic control problem cause chaos . in July ' 24 , faulty software cause chaos again . we be always hope that Heathrow be get well . after the incident in the early hour of last Friday morning , 290 , 000 passenger — I be one of they , by the way — find themselves stick somewhere in a queue . that include many of my constituent , and they have trouble get home , too . they have be contact I over the weekend to tell I their story . the incident pose question about whether the current operator be capable of run a third runway , if this fire cause a complete shutdown . report indicate that complete closure be not require . confidence in travel and in Heathrow be at an all - time low among my constituent and other . have the Secretary of State make Heathrow official aware of the need to ensure that contingency plan be not simply note on paper , but action to take during a crisis ? what have be their response to allay fear cause by the turmoil of last weekend ? I do not think anyone underestimate the distress and disruption that this incident cause . have speak directly with Heathrow ' s chief executive on a number of occasion , I know that he be fully aware of that . this be an unprecedented event of significant magnitude . day in , day out , Heathrow successfully provide service to hundred of thousand of passenger and business . while it be right that we do everything we can to interrogate the cause of this incident and learn any lesson , I believe that Heathrow airport can continue to be a trust partner for Government in the long term . the power outage , which have such a significant effect on Heathrow and its immediate surrounding , have raise real concern about resilience and back - up in our energy system for major infrastructure project and site . the Government have plan for a significant expansion of our clean energy electricity network , so can the Secretary of State say to what extent the Government will build into their clean power plan the great resilience and back - up that this worrying example at Heathrow have emphasise be so badly need ? I can confidently say that as we transition to clean power , resilience will remain key in the delivery of our power network . I do not think that anything change as a result of our determination to move to clean power , but I be happy to continue discussion with colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to make sure that that be the case . I call the Father of the House . follow that last question , can the Secretary of State give we an absolute assurance that nothing in our drive towards green energy and net zero will ever affect the sustainability and safety of our vital transport system ? I can give the right hon . Gentleman that assurance . I be aware that some other member of this House — not present in the Chamber today — be busy peddle some myth on Friday morning about this issue . it be clear to I that Heathrow ' s back - up power supply consist of both diesel and electricity generator . no matter what some other member might be say , those system do work . I can give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance that he seek . fire at electricity substation be not unheard of , and it seem that there may have be a considerable lack of preparedness at Heathrow . when the Secretary of State receive her review , will she look into what preparedness there be , and what scenario those at Heathrow have envisage for deal with possible outage of this kind and get their operation up and run again as quickly as possible ? I think that the Kelly review will be look at that . my hon . friend make a fair point about preparedness as well as resilience , which I will be discuss with those at heathrow in the future . the level of disruption cause by the fire and the subsequent closure of Heathrow airport have highlight the importance of reliable aviation connectivity to our daily life , as well as the fragility of much of our UK infrastructure . the National Infrastructure Commission publish report in 2020 , 2023 and 2024 call for the Government to implement standard and framework for resilience in key sector such as telecom , water , transport and energy . do the Secretary of State agree that this incident show how important such standard would be , and will those in the appropriate Department pick up the report which , I be sure , find their way on to their desk over the weekend and start to implement their recommendation ? I think they be already do that , because the review of resilience that be announce by the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster last July be look at the subject in the context of our critical national infrastructure . I rarely disagree with my right hon . friend , but I be not sure that this major incident can be entirely divorce from Heathrow ' s plan for a third runway . it be precisely because it be up against densely populate community that the effect be so devastating , with ten of thousand of people lose power , hundred be evacuate , and part of the M4 be close . will my right hon . friend assure I that as part of any consideration of a 50 % expansion of Heathrow — which would presumably make problem such as this 50 % bad — she will at least look into the risk , and the resilience , that would be consequence of such an expansion ? I doubt that it necessarily follow that an expand heathrow that accommodate twice as many flight as it do currently would make an incident such as the one that we see on Friday any more likely . this be an unprecedented fire of a significant scale . however , I can assure my hon . friend that before make any decision about the expansion of Heathrow , we will ensure that any proposal that may be forthcoming comply with all our legislative requirement . the Secretary of State mention that many family be evacuate from their property . safety be clearly of paramount importance , but only a few day ago NatPower UK inform I that it want to build an enormous electrical substation in my constituency . once NESO have report on this matter , will the Secretary of State please help to organise a meeting with the relevant Energy Minister so that we can discuss its finding and link they with any proposal for a new substation in my constituency ? a tenuous link . the relevant Energy Minister — my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who be sit next to I — be nod , which suggest to I that he would be happy to have such a meeting . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for the way in which she have approach this very serious issue . heathrow be clearly a vital piece of national infrastructure ; it be also central to the economy of west London and the Thames valley , and play an important part in the attraction of inward investment to our region . as the Secretary of State work with the author of the two review , will she also liaise with the local business community and local authority in the Thames valley and ensure that they be keep fully abreast of the work that be carry out in the review ? my hon . friend have make a fair point , and I be happy to give he that undertaking . I again urge the Secretary of State not to divorce the question of expansion from what have happen here . surely what this incident , cripple Europe ' s busy airport , show we be that we need a well heathrow , not a big heathrow . we need to focus on the infrastructure in and around Heathrow , to improve resilience , security and the passenger experience . while a third runway may not increase the likelihood of such an incident , the impact of such an incident will be all the great if she continue to put all our aviation egg in one basket . let I assure the hon . Lady that I be not put all the country ' s aviation egg in one basket . at the moment we do not have proposal before we for a third runway at Heathrow . we will look at those proposal carefully when they be submit and ensure that any decision about either the airport national policy statement or any subsequent development consent order be take in line with our environmental obligation on thing such as carbon , air pollution and noise . consideration of the resilience of the infrastructure will be part of that . a " national embarrassment " , a " laugh stock globally " , " shocking " ; with meme do the round , those be just some of the word that could be use to describe this weekend ' s event at Heathrow . while right hon . member on our Defence Committee and the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy be busy discuss hybrid and cyber - threat from our adversary , our nation ' s big port be take down by a single substation fire . do my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary agree that , while my Slough constituent and people across the country be not bother with the blame game that be now under way , this event should be a wake - up call regard the resilience of our national infrastructure , and there should be no repeat ? this be an unprecedented event and Heathrow stand up its resilience plan swiftly . within 18 hour of the fire start , plane be once again land at the airport . for an airport the size of Heathrow , that be no mean feat . it be right both that an internal review of the airport crisis management and resilience plan take place , and that the Government have commission the review that will be conduct by NESO . the Secretary of State have indicate that she speak to the chief executive of Heathrow on Friday and again this morning . I would like to think that , with an incident of this scale , there be ministerial contact throughout the weekend , possibly on a more than daily basis , give the impact it have on so many people . will she commit to urgently review the dft ' s response to this major incident , in addition to heathrow ' s ? she will also be aware that airport the length and breadth of the UK be vital transport hub and link to critical infrastructure , such as Aberdeen airport and , in my constituency , Inverness airport , with dozen of helicopter flight service offshore oil and gas and renewable infrastructure ; and airport be also home to air ambulance , police helicopter and coastguard service . will she therefore commit also to review the level of operational resilience in those and other location that host service critical to people ' s wellbee and to energy security and national security ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that , in addition to the conversation I have with the chief executive of Heathrow , I be update throughout the weekend by my official on what be happen at the airport . I be happy to write to he about the wide point he raise . as the Secretary of State be aware , my constituency contain London City airport , which sit closely alongside residential and business building , so safety be something we be very alive to . it be also an area of massive regeneration , so we be also alive to power pressure , and that part of her statement will be interesting for my constituent . can she assure we not only that the review and the lesson learn will be share , but that we will look at how they can be adapt , so that other airport can adjust and carry out future - proof for their resilience , and so that we be not just learn lesson after the event ? I be very happy to give my hon . friend that commitment . do the Secretary of State agree that what happen on Thursday and Friday be a complete national embarrassment and should never have happen ? will she do an assessment of our remain airport to ensure not only that they also have multiple supply point for electricity , but that they do not rely on the illusion , as plainly happen at Heathrow , that those multiple supply point make it completely reliable as a hub airport ? that appear at first glance to have be the case for Heathrow , and it be not adequate . perhaps the right hon . Member be not listen when I respond to question from this side of the Chamber . there be multiple power supply point to the airport , but Heathrow take the decision that it need to reconfigure the supply in the airport , as terminal 2 and 4 be very badly affect . it decide to put the safety and security of the travel public first . it power down all those system and then power they up again . I be not in the room when those decision be take . Heathrow be a private company , and it take decision about what it think be good for the travel public . I , as Transport Secretary , be not go to second - guess those , but I will ensure that we do very thorough review . I will interrogate those review very carefully and ensure that any lesson we need to learn be act upon . I thank the Secretary of State for update the House . as well as be one of the busy airport in the world in its own right , Heathrow be also a crucial hub , mean that connector airport , such as Newcastle International and other , be really impact by any issue at Heathrow . can she please assure I not only that a proper investigation be take place , but that we will learn the lesson and ensure that there be no more such issue , and will she keep the House update in the meantime ? I recognise that Heathrow provide really important connectivity for our regional airport , and therefore for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I can assure she that I will keep the House update , once both the internal review commission by Heathrow come back and the report by NESO have be publish . obviously , this event be on a catastrophic scale , but there be regular disruption at Heathrow . one of the consequence of that be the wholesale cancellation of flight between Heathrow and Scotland , which I have raise previously in this Chamber . when Ruth Kelly do her report on Heathrow ' s resilience , will she look at its wide resilience and its ability to cope with weather - relate or other technical issue , so that they do not lead to the wholesale cancellation of flight between Scotland and London ? I be not write the term of reference for the Kelly review , because it have be commission by Heathrow airport itself , and I hesitate to stand at the Dispatch Box and try to amend the term of a private company ' s review . the aviation Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , tell I that the right hon . Gentleman have write to he about this issue , and he be due to come back to he on it . the matter be also be consider by the aviation future forum . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and I add to the comment make by other member by thank those who deal with this terrible incident at the time . it obviously have a huge impact on passenger , include resident in Harlow look to get to the US . what reassurance can she give passenger that this be due to an unprecedented power outage ? do this add to the case for other airport such as Stansted , which employ some of my constituent , have great resilience , great capacity and , potentially , even transatlantic flight ? my hon . friend be tempt I to make a whole series of interesting comment about Stansted . I can assure he that when we get the review back , we will look at their implication for other airport , include Stansted , which provide employment for a number of his constituent . the fire and heathrow closure will have impact not only on traveller and on good and service , but on the employee and contractor who work at Heathrow . could the Secretary of State reassure I and those worker that she will urge all employer at Heathrow to ensure that staff who be due to work but be unable to do so , through no fault of their own , will be pay for that day ? I be grateful for that question . I must admit that it be not a subject I have , to date , discuss with the chief executive of Heathrow , but I be happy to follow it up for the hon . Gentleman and come back to he . I thank the Secretary of State for all her hard work on this matter over the weekend . can she reassure my constituent that our energy resilience remain high , and that the holiday they have save long and hard for will not be disrupt by similar incident at regional airport up and down the country ? will she also look into the particular impact that such outage have on disabled passenger ? I will look at the specific issue my hon . friend raise about disabled passenger , but I would like to reassure she and her constituent that I be confident that our airport and critical national infrastructure be resilient . I recognise that significant disruption be cause on this occasion . the NESO review will tell we if there be any other action we need to take , but I be confident about our current arrangement . it be , first , really important to emphasise that energy infrastructure be generally safe . however , the example on Friday indicate that thing can go wrong . what be the Secretary of State , alongside her Government colleague , do to address over - industrialisation in certain area ? in Kintore and Leylodge in my constituency , we have a 275 kV substation next to a 400 kV substation , with a 3 GW hydrogen plant and nine battery storage site in the planning . together , there be a huge risk , if we consider that a fire be able to start on Friday . all these risk be consider in the round , but if the hon . Lady want to write to an appropriate Minister in another Department and copy I in , I would be happy to follow up on those discussion . follow the incident at Heathrow , will the Secretary of State commit to invest in regional airport , such as Blackpool airport , to diversify our air travel option and support local economy such as mine in Blackpool South , and therefore reduce our reliance on major hub ? Mr Speaker , I be really very sorry , but I do not quite catch the question . if my hon . friend would like to write to I , I will ensure I come back to he . the Secretary of State have , perfectly fairly , say that some of the specific learning about the incident will have to wait until we know more , but she also say that she have be tell that , as a matter of design , the back - up power arrangement for Heathrow be not intend to cover all airport operation until , as we know , a significant reconfiguration take place over a matter of hour . will she assure that she can and will begin the work of consider whether that be the right position , not just for Heathrow but for other airport ? I make no predetermination on her behalf on whether it be or be not , but she can surely do that now without wait for the specific of this incident all to be clear . heathrow , as a private company , be responsible for develop its own resilience plan . this be an issue that will be consider properly by the Kelly review , but the right hon . and learn Gentleman be right : I have be tell that the back - up power system be not design to provide power for the entire airport . when I discuss the matter with the chief executive of Heathrow on Friday , he tell I that be quite typical for an airport the size of Heathrow , but I be sure it be an issue the Kelly review will be look at . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and associate myself with the comment of gratitude towards the firefighter and airport staff who respond to the incident . will my right hon . friend confirm that passenger have sufficient right to receive support and compensation when these kind of external event disrupt their plan ? airline be responsible for provide passenger with a refund within seven day , or to be re - route to their destination under the same condition , with require suitable accommodation and food . that be the airline ' responsibility . we have advertise the right of passenger via the Civil Aviation Authority in recent day to ensure that people be aware . those be the provision that exist within our law to compensate people who have be affect by this type of disruption . in any modern economy , it be clear that the resilience of critical national infrastructure face many risk and threat , and that resilience go hand in hand with our national security . do the Secretary of State agree that the incident and other risk we face demonstrate that the role of the Prime Minister ' s national security adviser should be bolster to more prominently cover national security and critical infrastructure resilience ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that the Government will do everything in their power to learn the lesson from this incident and ensure that our critical national infrastructure be protect and resilient as we move forward . the Secretary of State say in her statement that the review by the National Energy System Operator will seek to learn wide lesson for energy resilience and critical national infrastructure . will that review include the infrastructure in Northern Ireland , specifically Belfast international airport in my constituency and Belfast City airport ? my understanding be that the grid be separate in Northern Ireland . I will take away the hon . Gentleman ' s question and consider with colleague the appropriate geographical scope of the NESO review . the term of reference have not yet be finalise , so I will come back to he on that . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on Saturday 22 March , 11 Labour mp campaign in my constituency , the majority of whom neglect to inform I . I be well aware that Labour be desperate to hang on to the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough mayoralty . have part company with the current Labour mayor at the eleventh hour , after he be find guilty of breach the code of conduct during his term , it have panic - select the only candidate who could be find at short notice — someone who already lose the police and crime commissioner election last year — and be desperately pour mps into my constituency to campaign against Paul Bristow . as a matter of courtesy , I would have expect member to notify I of their visit . while new member could feign ignorance , a Secretary of State and a junior Minister should know well . first , all mps should notify other member when go to their constituency . I will stamp down when member do not show that courtesy — please do so . yes , election fever be come , but that be no excuse for member not to inform other member that they be come to campaign . I do not know who the Minister and the Secretary of State be , but it give they absolutely no right to do so without notify the Member . they should know well . I say to all member on both side , please observe the courtesy of the House and inform other member . planning and Infrastructure Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Gideon Amos have not be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it be time to get Britain build again . it be what work people expect of this Government and it be what we will deliver . our Planning and Infrastructure Bill be critical to achieve economic growth , high living standard and a more secure future for our country . this be our plan for change in action : action to build 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament and a fast track of 150 major infrastructure project — more than be decide over the 14 year of the previous Government . the Bill be also key to make Britain a clean energy superpower , bring down bill for work people and secure our energy supply in a more uncertain world . make no mistake : the Bill will transform the life of work people and Britain ' s prospect for year to come . it be hugely ambitious , and rightly so . everywhere I go , I hear the same frustration : " we just can ' t build anything any more , " and , " we desperately need more home and more development . " for too long , the answer have always be no , which have choke growth , leave work people bad off and leave Britain behind , with train that do not work , road that be clog and not enough home be build . I gently say to the Secretary of State that none of my constituent be say , " in Shropshire , we don ' t need any more home . we don ' t want any more home . " they just want to be consult . they want the home in the right place , at the right scale , with the right architecture and in the right number . they want their voice listen to through a local plan — not ignore , as the current Government be do . I gently say to the right hon . member that it be this Government who have bring forward mandatory local plan , and it be his Government who do not . for too long we have leave home ownership to collapse , with homelessness soar and over 160 , 000 child in temporary accommodation . this be a country that simply be not work . the time it take to secure planning permission for major project have almost double in the last decade , and it now take more than four year . it be slow and more costly to build big infrastructure in England than in France and Italy . no new reservoir have be build for over 30 year . there be countless other example , such as the critical new road improvement scheme for Norwich , which would create job and speed up journey yet be hold up for two year by unsuccessful legal challenge . we have the ridiculous situation where 139 desperately need house be delay in Bingley because of a row over the speed of ball at the neighbouring cricket club . the result of such delay have be few home build , high energy bill , and low productivity and growth . for 14 year , the country have be cry out for a Government with the will to change that . successive Tory Prime Ministers promise that change , but when the bold action be demand they be too afraid to stand up to their Back Benchers . can the Secretary of State outline what power in the Bill she will use to take on developer and make sure that they build base on the planning permission they already have ? the hon . Member will know as a member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee that we have already make change through the national planning policy framework , and we have our new home accelerator programme , which be already provide thousand of home . the Bill be about build on those power to ensure that we get Britain build . it be his Government who do not build the house and the infrastructure that we desperately need and who be too timid to face down the vested interest . this Labour Government be on the side of the builder , not the blocker , and we be say , " no more . " there be nobody who do not welcome the 1 . 5 million house target , and it be important that we see those home . part of infrastructure be electric vehicle charge system . many people I ask about electric car say that they be not get one because there be not enough charging point . clause 43 indicate that there will be more ev charge point . be that something the Secretary of State will share with the relevant Minister in Northern Ireland ? I also understand that some of the standard accessibility requirement do not meet the standard . can she confirm that that will be change ? the Bill will streamline the approval of street work need for the installation of ev charge point , remove the need for licensing where work be able to be authorise by permit , because we recognise that people need that critical infrastructure as part of these reform . we have take more action in eight month than the opposition manage in 14 year of government . we have reverse the damaging change make by the Tories to the national planning policy framework and have bring green belt into the 21st century . we have end the de facto ban on new onshore wind , and we be support local authority with an additional 300 planning officer . just this month , we set out reform to put growth at the heart of the statutory consultee system . many would have say , " stop there and allow the reform to bed in , " but Britain can not afford to wait . we have be hold back for too long by government without the will to drive change . this landmark Planning and Infrastructure Bill go even far and fast . I congratulate my right hon . friend on champion the expansion of affordable and social housing in particular . I ask she to take account of another exclude group : gypsy and Travellers . they have be systematically discriminate against by the Conservatives over 14 year . there be no assessment of need or statutory duty to provide site any long , and they be not in the strategic planning provision . can we rectify that in the Bill so that we have a level playing field for everybody who be in need of housing ? we be work with local authority , and the Bill include provision for strategic authority so that we can look at where we have site and ensure that people be accommodate . it be for local authority to be able to do that . the Bill start with a quick and more certain system for big ticket infrastructure project . it will slice through the bureaucracy and speed up transport project . it will overhaul how Government decision on major infrastructure project can be challenge , so that meritless case will have one , rather than three , attempt at a legal challenge , stop case from be drag endlessly and needlessly through the court . somewhere knock around in the system be a Government press release that say that the National Grid Sea Link project be be obstruct by too many objection . the reason that it be be object to be that the National Grid want to build a 90 - foot - high converter station the size of five football pitch on the Minster marsh in Kent . we must have the right to object to that kind of project . I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that there be not a loss of the right to object . in fact , we be strengthen and clarify those process as part of the Bill . I will say it again : there will be a quick and more certain system for big ticket infrastructure project . the Bill will slice through bureaucracy and speed up transport project . what it will not do be allow meritless case to have three attempt at a legal challenge . it will stop case from be drag endlessly and needlessly through the court . it will begin to strip away the unnecessary consultation requirement that do nothing to improve application and do not meaningfully engage community , but slow down the delivery of infrastructure that will benefit community in the future . it will create great flexibility so that project can go through a more appropriate and fast planning route . the Secretary of State will understand that when a number of nationally strategic infrastructure project be in one area , that have a huge impact . in my constituency we be look at a strategic rail interchange , a major solar plant and the East West Rail project . will she reassure my constituent that their voice will be hear under the Bill ? will she reassure we that when these issue go to the Planning Inspectorate and to the Secretary of State , the cumulative effect of national project that be not present in local plan will be consider before decision be take ? as the hon . Gentleman know , we will consult on the draft we have put forward . we want well and quality engagement as part of the Bill . our change will ensure that everyone work together early on , and that we have proportionate and fast decision . we will make sure that the Government ' s infrastructure policy be update at least every five year , but the measure in the Bill be not the limit of our ambition . the Secretary of State be outline the process by which essential infrastructure need to be build , but she will forgive I for come back to Heathrow expansion . I would be extremely grateful if she could set out for we — perhaps not today , but later or in writing — the exact process for consider the expansion of Heathrow under the new legislation . in addition , could she explain why those who will be affect by compulsory purchase will now be remove as consultee at the pre - application stage ? I will not get into the detail of any particular planning process , but I will say that the Bill be about well and quality engagement . of course , statutory consultee will continue to be engage , but what we do not want be major infrastructure project continually be block for year and year . People have be speak about some of these project for decade , and we still do not have the connectivity that we desperately need . we be open to strengthen the Bill , and we will give serious consideration to proposal that far our objective . we will continue to engage with colleague across the House , as well as with business and community , on what might be do about exist requirement that be not work as they should . we be clear that where once the answer be always no , to get Britain building , to drive growth and to deliver opportunity , the answer must now be yes . the Bill be also gear towards another crucial pledge : build the new home that we need . we will boost house building in England by streamline planning decision . I warmly welcome the step be take to streamline the system and get more home build . that , of course , include social and affordable housing . do the Secretary of State agree that that would go some way to help the 160 , 000 child who be stick in temporary accommodation ? I thank my hon . friend for bring the debate back to why we be all here and why we be in this mess in the first place . over Christmas , when we all got to see our family and friend , I be think about the 160 , 000 child in temporary accommodation . during the general election campaign , one thing I be clear on be that we have to move forward to build the home that people desperately need — behind every single one of those statistic be a family or an opportunity that be not be realise — and one of this Government ' s mission be to strengthen that . if the Government be go to build 1 . 5 million home over the course of this Parliament , and we be nine month into the first year of this Parliament , by my calculation they should have build 225 , 000 by now . will the Secretary of State confirm how many home have be build ? the hon . Gentleman have just give we an example of the mess the previous Government leave we in . House building be go backwards , and they be nowhere near the figure they promise . that be why , within the first few month of we get into power , we change the national planning policy framework . we have be consult , we have be work with industry , we have have a new home accelerator — thousand more have be put into the system — and £ 2 billion for the affordable home programme have be announce today . we will boost house building in England by streamline planning decision , introduce a national scheme of delegation that set out which type of application should be determine by officer and which by plan committee . local democratic oversight be crucial to ensure good development , but the right decision must be take at the right level to get Britain building . the Deputy Prime Minister be give an excellent speech about the importance of build home . she mention the importance of get young people out of temporary accommodation , which I wholly support . do she agree that it be not just about temporary accommodation but about family who be suffer from overcrowding , family in unsuitable accommodation and family at risk of homelessness , with the anxiety that bring ? my inbox be full of that from resident in Harlow . my hon . friend make an important point . not only have the Government inherit a really dire house building situation — we will turn the tide and build 1 . 5 million home — but we have see homelessness level rise . the previous Government promise to end section 21 no - fault eviction but do not ; we be go to do it . we will also bring in Awaab ' s law , which will protect people in the rented sector . there be so much wrong with our housing system . the Government be start to turn the tide on that . this Bill be one crucial step in the overall picture of what we be do to improve circumstance for people , whether they want to buy a home , whether they be in a home or whether they be in privately rent accommodation . I turn back to the planning committee . we will bring in new control over the size of planning committee , increase the pace and quality of decision make while maintain robust debate . we be introduce mandatory training for planning committee member to improve their expertise while allow council to set their own planning fee to cover their cost , with a promise that that money will be reinveste in the system to help speed it up . I welcome much of what the Bill will do . it will speed up the planning system , which as a chartered surveyor who have practise in planning be I know desperately need if we be to get more house build . however , the one area of the Bill that I have concern about be what she have just come on to . if local people feel completely overridden by their planning system , they will feel very hard do by . if we be to override local people , we might just as well have a nationally direct planning system rather than a local planning system . will she think carefully about that balance ? I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s expertise in this area , and he be absolutely right to say that there have to be a balance ; that be why the Bill set out that controversial scheme will still go to full planning committee . I be sure he would recognise that there be other area where local planner could do some of that work . if we set out the rule clearly , we can make the process well , so that where there be more need for that engagement — with the mandatory training for those on plan committee — we will get a well result . I hope the hon . Member will continue to engage with we in that vein . I welcome the £ 2 billion in extra money for social home be announce today and the 150 new nationally significant infrastructure project for which the Bill will pave the way . we be the party of the builder , not the blocker , so more importantly we need more builder . that be why the £ 600 million announce for a new army of 60 , 000 more brickie , electrician and engineer be very welcome . can I suggest that Rochdale ' s Hopwood Hall college , which have a brilliant record in training construction worker , be include in this project ? as my hon . Friend say , 10 college of excellence be announce as part of the £ 600 million funding and 60 , 000 new apprenticeship . by give our young people opportunity , this be part of make work pay . it will be fantastic , and I hope my hon . friend will be engage in that process . my colleague in Government will have hear what he say . as a fellow Greater Manchester MP , I feel that Greater Manchester definitely should be part of that process . to pick up on the tone of the comment make about blocker , I knock on many door in my constituency and find the narrative about nimbys block housing and people not want home build in their constituency to be untrue . People recognise the need for additional home for themselves , their child and the grow population , but what they worry about be infrastructure . this Bill do not include mandatory infrastructure target , and that be why resident be so sceptical . give their inability to get GP appointment at the moment , with additional home and additional demand they will struggle even more . how can we reassure they that those need will be meet in the future ? let I be clear : I do not call people of this country the blocker . I do not see that when I be out and about ; I never see it during the general election campaign . People want this development . the hon . Member make an important point about infrastructure ; people often say that the infrastructure be not there . this Bill streamline infrastructure . I think it go some way towards do the work . it be not everything ; we have to do a lot of other thing , like we have do with section 106 , for example . under the previous Government , we often do not get the benefit of that , because people wriggle out of their obligation . I appreciate the tone of the hon . member ' s remark . this government be go to make sure that we build the house that people want , where they want they , with consultation and with the critical infrastructure that they need . at the same time , we will unlock land for housing and infrastructure by reform the compulsory purchase process , ensure that important project that deliver public benefit — such as many more social and affordable home — be give the green light , and that compensation pay to landowner be not excessive . I warmly welcome the change to hope value in order to build more affordable home , but will the Secretary of State clarify whether that will also apply to wide project for community benefit such as play field ? Udney Park in Teddington in my constituency have lie derelict for over a decade as successive owner have want to develop it but can not do so . there be a huge demand for community play field and the community want to be able to access that land . will she assure I that the hope value change will apply much more broadly than just to affordable housing ? I hope that the hon . Member continue to engage , because we want to make sure that we can go as wide as we possibly can so that we get the land that be need and we can build the house that we desperately need . we be also do work within the devolution Bill , which will be come forward , around compulsory purchase on other asset of public value that be not for build on . that touch on the point that the hon . Member have raise . we be also strengthen development corporation to make it easy to deliver the housing project we need . those corporation deliver previous generation of new town . this Labour Government be build on our post - war legacy by give they enhance power to help deliver our next generation of new town . these will be community build with local people in mind , with the affordable housing , GP surgery , school and public transport that work people expect and need . the Deputy Prime Minister and I have a mutual passion : she too be a great fan of his Majesty ' s work on the build environment and ensure the high quality of design . one concern that a lot of people have be see the quality of design erode , so that we see the same design in Kent as we do in Staffordshire . would she look at what could be do to enhance design code , because it feel like they have be erode not enhance ? the right hon . Gentleman remind I of our time spar at the Dispatch Box , but I be glad that I be on the Government side now . [ interruption . ] I beg to differ . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about design , and we be cover that in our new town . he be right that his Majesty be also passionate about this ; I think everybody be to be honest — nobody want to live in an ugly home . design be important , and it be different in different place : Yorkshire be different from Manchester , which be different from Devon . ensure that design be part of the process be crucial , but it must not prevent we from go forward . that be why we have clarify some of the issue around " beautiful " in the nppf that be hold thing up . I want to reassure member across the House that we expect safe home , beautiful home and home fit for the future in term of renewable and energy efficiency . to meet our net zero ambition and drive growth , the Bill will speed up approval for clean energy project . some project currently face wait of over 10 year — another legacy of Tory failure . with a first ready , first connect system replace the flawed first come , first serve approach , and with £ 200 billion of investment unlock growth through " Clean Power by 2030 " , our reform will protect household from the rollercoaster of foreign fossil fuel market and usher in a new era of energy independence , in which despot like Putin can no long have their boot on the nation ' s throat . Britain ' s electricity grid need a 21st century overhaul to connect the right power in the right place , which be why our plan for vital energy project need for clean power , include wind and solar project , will be prioritise for grid connection , with those live within 500 metre of new pylon get up to £ 250 a year off their electricity bill . we recognise the service of these community in host the infrastructure that will lower everyone ' s energy bill . the Deputy Prime Minister make an important point about the access to energy that all our community require . particularly prominent in all our mind , at a time when we recognise that food security be national security , be the displacement of high - quality agricultural land and , in effect , energy become a new cash crop . will she assure the House that we be not at risk of fall into that trap and that we will not displace high - quality agricultural land for energy ? I can assure the hon . member — I give he two chance ; I must like he — that we will protect high - quality agricultural land . farmer have use land in various way throughout the decade and generation , and we will protect our high - quality agricultural land . finally , I want to turn to the measure in the Bill on development and nature recovery . we have some incredibly important habit and specie in this country , and the Government could not have be clear in our manifesto that we be committed to improve outcome for nature . I congratulate my right hon . friend on a fantastic speech and a great piece of legislation that will turbocharge our plan to restore nature at scale and build the home that we need . will she say a little more about how the Bill could help we to restore our precious chalk stream , such as the River Pang in my constituency ? the Bill be about how we can do nature recovery and protect nature . we think that it be a win - win . under the previous Government , all sort of problem hold we up , and we try to work with the then Government but they would not work with we . that be why they be now on the Opposition Benches and we be on the Government Benches , build . I be sure that all member across the House share the goal of improve outcome for nature , but I be also confident that no one here think that the system be work well . any set of rule that result in a £ 100 million bat tunnel be an outrage . I know that Opposition member agree , but they be determined to take a clumsy approach to fix nutrient neutrality that risk rip up environmental protection and would not have work . thank to a collaborative effort with organisation across the development and environmental sector , our Bill set out a well way . that be a win - win for development and for nature . the Bill establish a nature restoration fund that will allow developer to make a simple payment to discharge their environmental obligation , and to crack on with the building of the home and infrastructure project that we desperately need . Natural England will use that money to take the action need not just to avoid further decline in our natural world , but to bring about improvement . it be reassuring to hear that the right hon . Lady be so passionate about restore nature . how , then , can she explain the fact that planning permission , which the local council have refuse , have be grant for a battery energy storage system on the green belt in Walsall ? I will not comment on individual project , but we have be clear about nature recovery and protect our natural space , as set out in the Bill . that be how we will put talk of newts and nutrient neutrality behind we and get Britain building , while stop the pointless pitting of nature against development . the problem cause by the previous Government ' s failure to tackle nutrient neutrality mean that north Cumbria face significant house building issue . I strongly welcome the Bill ' s provision on the nature restoration fund . will the Department work with the local authority to develop mitigation scheme that will get house building go in north Cumbria in the interim ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that long - stand issue . the Government be already engage with the local authority in her area . she be absolutely right : for too long the previous Government be not listen . in the other place , and when I be in opposition , we try to work with they on these issue and they refuse . the Bill be our reform to mark a new era for Britain . we be turn the page on the year of defeatism and decline in which this country of extraordinary talent and capability be hold back by a system that be hobble at every turn . with these landmark reform , we be not just put more money into the pocket of work people and strengthen community ; we be take a major step forward to secure our country ' s future for the long term . we be get Britain build again , get growth go and pave the way for national renewal . this be real delivery and real change to transform the life of million of people for year to come . I commend the Bill to the House . I be pleased to lead the response on behalf of the Opposition , and I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which include more than 30 year of business experience and interest in the property sector . we support some of the principle , aim and ambition of the Bill , some of which build on the work we undertake while we be in office — a time that include a record period for house building in this country . we will also highlight our concern in a number of area , include whether the Bill go far enough to achieve its goal ; the removal of a councillor ' s ability to vote on individual application ; and the potentially toxic mix of disproportionately large increase to housing target in rural area , the grey belt " Trojan horse " , include the removal of any protection for village , the move to strategic plan and of course the ambition to build 1 . 5 million home . the Secretary of State be apparently keen on spot elephant , but she seem to have miss a huge one , in that that target of 1 . 5 million home be completely undeliverable . in chapter 2 , propose new clause 12h ( 3 ) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 mention the draft spatial development strategy and bring in a raft of change , include consultation with representative body on " different racial , ethnic or national group " but also " different religious group " . be there a danger that we be pit community one against another ? there be a legislative reason to do that , and I want to intervene to ask the Secretary of State about it , but can my hon . friend , with his expertise , shine some light on why we be enshrine that provision into legislation ? my hon . friend be right to spot that requirement , and we will certainly be consider that when we table amendment to the Bill . we believe it be completely inappropriate that certain group should get preference over other group in consultation that might occur during the planning process . the ambition to build 1 . 5 million home be all well and good , but the Government have not yet set out exactly how they will do that . there be many question about its deliverability , certainly in the context of the February S & P Global UK construction purchasing manager ' index , which describe one of the big monthly fall in house building and construction on record . indeed , the joint report from Savills , the Home Builders Federation and the National Housing Federation say that the Secretary of State would fall short of her target by 500 , 000 home . the Government have not yet set out how many social or affordable home they will deliver , or what measure they will put in place to help first - time buyer on to the housing ladder , particularly when they have scrap help to buy and the stamp duty discount , which help 1 million young people to buy their first home . do my hon . friend agree that housing target mean little if the government do not get a grip on immigration , which be cause massive demand for housing ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that point . the increase in this country ' s population be part of the reason why we have a rise need for housing , as well as for temporary accommodation . that all impact on the system . the hon . member talk about miss target , and about affordability . in 2010 , the first of 16 housing Ministers under the previous Conservative Government boldly claim , as do many of his successor , that the Government would improve affordability of housing overall . while they be in power , affordability , as measure by the ratio between median house price and wage , reduce from 6 . 85 to 7 . 7 . can he explain that failure to the House ? the hon . Gentleman fail to acknowledge that there be quite a few different housing Ministers during Labour ' s previous tenure as well , but he make an interesting and important point that I be happy to answer . of course we want to build more house to tackle affordability problem . I say that in relation to social housing , because during those 14 year , as well as deliver 2 . 5 million new home , we deliver 750 , 000 affordable home . the point I be make be about outcome . the previous Government commit to improve affordability and abjectly fail to do so . can the hon . member explain why ? as I say , there be no question but that there be underlie problem in the marketplace . we deliver 1 million home , which be our target , in the last Parliament , but of course we agree that supply and demand be part of the equation . it be not the only part , so we support the ambition to deliver more home . we have a similar commitment in our manifesto , and there be a context for that within the overall framework for a high target . the Government must reflect on the fact that although the construction sector be an important part of the economy , it represent only around 6 % of gdp . growth in the other 94 % have be kill stone dead by the twin human wrecking ball who be the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister . have inherit the fast grow economy in the G7 , the Chancellor proceed to trash talk the economy recklessly for six month , before hit it with £ 70 billion per annum of tax and borrowing . if that be not bad enough , the Deputy Prime Minister introduce the Employment Rights Bill — [ hon . member : " Hooray ! " ] wonderful . all Labour Members ’ union supporter will applaud they for it . it will kill ten if not thousand of business , and potentially hundred of thousand of job throughout our country . we have already hear comment from Conservative Members about case where planning permission have be grant , but nothing have be build . almost every developer I have speak to during this Parliament have say that that have one cause . it take so long to get planning permission — the Bill be design to fix that — and while developer seek it , Liz Truss crash the economy . consequently , we have an inflation crisis and cost skyrocket . before the hon . gentleman comment on our economic record , will he apologise for his ? that be absolute nonsense . talk of confidence , accord to a monthly survey by the Institute of Directors , business confidence in this country have collapse since Labour take over . a high of plus 5 in July last year have collapse to a covid - level low of minus 65 . the Deputy Prime Minister ' s Government inflict that on this country . there be a complete absence of business experience in the Cabinet . have kill economic growth in most of the productive economy , the Government now resemble a clueless gambler at the end of a disastrous night in the casino — they be stake everything on a last - gasp gamble on the property market . from 2013 to 2023 , we see the high sustained level of new home formation in the past 50 year , surpass even the level in the 1970 . since 2010 , we have deliver 2 . 5 million new home and 750 , 000 affordable home . do my hon . friend agree that the increase in stamp duty that have be impose on people create a real challenge when it come to encourage more people to buy home ? if the Deputy Prime Minister could encourage the Chancellor to reconsider that , so that it be not so expensive to buy a new home , that would be an important reform . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . what have the Deputy Prime Minister and the Chancellor get against first - time buyer ? we help 1 million first - time buyer to get on the housing ladder through help to buy and discount on stamp duty . the Government scrap both those scheme . will the hon . member reflect on the fact that although help to Buy help some people to purchase a new home , many other be price out because of inflationary pressure and the exorbitant bonus that be pay to the huge house building company , which benefit the most from the scheme ? I do not disagree that there be some flaw in the scheme . nevertheless , around 340 , 000 people make it on to the housing ladder through that process . they include people in my constituency and probably people in the hon . member ' s constituency . we recognise the need to go far . that be why we commission work by Charles Banner KC on speed up the planning and delivery of national infrastructure project , and Nick Winser ' s review on accelerate energy infrastructure . we be grateful to they for their work . when we compare their recommendation and other with the Bill , we believe that the Bill ' s benefit have be significantly oversell . for example , on the infrastructure consenting process , measure to reduce decision time be welcome , but consideration should be give to remove specific critical project , such as airport , reservoir , nuclear power station and national transport scheme from the judicial review process altogether . the nature restoration levy and environmental delivery plan to be deliver by Natural England could be welcome if they allow developer successfully to discharge the requirement of the habitat regulation , but there be key question . what incentive be there for Natural England to set levy that be proportionate to the impact on the environment ? will they just become another tax and another deterrent to building ? the work do by the conservative party on the NPPF be welcome , particularly in respect of its view on incorporate nature into the structure of the build , but it be unsuccessful . the hon . Gentleman will have hear my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister talk about a win - win for nature , so can he give the House an assurance that the Conservatives will back the implementation of measure such as swift brick ? swift be cavity - nest bird that have no other place in this country and be decline at a great rate . will he back the incorporation of those as a mandatory requirement in new build ? I can guarantee that we will support measure that we think will be successful . the hon . Gentleman bring up some of the work we try to do in the previous Parliament , some of which be successful . other thing be unsuccessful , include our solution on nutrient neutrality , which be block by his party by about 100 vote in the House of Lords . the impact of that particular measure be consider negligible . we want to ensure that where any levy be put in place by Natural England , if the impact be consider negligible , they be also negligible for developer . I very much agree with what my hon . friend be say . do he agree that more could be do to protect irreplaceable chalk stream habitat , particularly in the south of England ? do he also agree that one thing we could do be designate those chalk stream habitat to be irreplaceable and ensure that the Government specify clearly what permission might be available there ? we could talk with the Minister for Housing and Planning , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) about make such amendment to the legislation as it pass through Committee . I have other question . be Natural England sufficiently resource to carry out its work ? how long will it be before these plan be in place ? have the Government take into account the inevitable delay due to judicial review of the environmental delivery plan ? be it not the case that the habitat regulation remain in place beneath this new system , so if a development do not show the overall improvement test for each identify environmental feature , as reference in clause 55 , the system will not apply and the developer will still need to build those bat tunnel and fish discos ? indeed , Sam Richards of Britain Remade state that it might set the bar even high by require a net gain for that specie . if an EDP cover one element of environmental impact but not other , the developer might have to pay into the levy and build the bat tunnel . have the Government also consider change to section 20 of the Environment Act 2021 , which this legislation be subject to ? I be interested to hear the Minister ' s reflection . overall , we believe that it will take at least two to three year from Royal Assent for these edp to have meaningful effect . I be very happy to seek assurance from the Minister if that be not the case . there be also understandable concern about whether the route choose will even deliver on its objective to protect the environment . the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management have state that the Government ' s approach mean that our natural capital asset will be destroy immediately , and it could take decade for any improvement . as my hon . friend rightly point out , nature can be effectively compensate for only in certain circumstance , but landscape can never be replace : once it be go , it be go . do he think there should be scope in this Bill to recognise the special status of protect landscape — what be now call national landscape or national park — to ensure that development in those area be appropriate and do not permanently damage our precious landscape for future generation ? my right hon . friend raise a very important point . constituency such as his and mine that include those protect landscape do not seem to have that consider or cater for in the housing target , particularly the new one that we have before we . again , I be very keen to discuss with the Minister how we might address that . on planning , we be very concerned about the national scheme of delegation , which will remove councillor ' right to vote on individual planning application . if the Secretary of State do not believe that that be the case , I suggest that she read clause 46 of her own legislation . this be particularly extraordinary consider that when Labour be in opposition , the former shadow Housing Minister say in a debate in this House on 21 June 2021 that the previous Government should " protect the right of community to object to individual planning application . " — [ Official Report , 21 June 2021 ; Vol . 697 , c . 620 . ] clearly , the current Housing Minister be not do that — he be do the exact opposite through these rule — and he should be clear with the public about that , because soon or later , that fact will hit home . indicate dissent . I be very happy to have a debate with the Housing Minister — he be welcome to intervene on I . I suggest that he read clause 46 as well . of course , it be also a fact that 14 Cabinet Ministers , include the Deputy Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and the Health Secretary , all campaign to block housing development in their own constituency . what hypocrisy ! I have often find that the right of a councillor to insist that a matter go to the planning committee , rather than be determine by officer , actually lead to the application go through where pettifog officer would have refuse it . it be right to say that the vast majority of application be consent to by plan committee . remove councillor ' right to vote on they be absolutely the wrong thing to do , and Labour must be honest with the public that that be exactly what be happen . that raise a broad point . at the moment , council in part of the country such as my constituency be be abolish by this government , so there will be no democratic accountability down the line , and there will be no democratic accountability at council level through planning committee , either . they be remove layer after layer of protection for local community such as mine , with huge amount of green - belt land suddenly redesignate as grey - belt land , despite recently be high - grade agricultural land . can my hon . friend understand the concern in community such as mine about what these proposal be do ? they want to see more housing , but not at the expense of London see a housing target — order . that be a very long intervention . I be concern about the point that my right hon . friend have raise . the Government talk about abolish a layer of government , but they be actually introduce a new layer of government : the strategic authority , which will have the ability to push housing from urban area into rural area such as my right hon . friend ' s and those represent by other member in this House . rise — I will give way a final time , and then I will make some progress , if I can . on the environment , national park be rightly protect , so when the Government impose housing target on east Hampshire , all of that housing will have to go in the bit that be not part of the South Downs national park , increase the housing pressure on what be essentially green - belt land but be not in the park . would it not be well for this to be take in its totality , and for the national park to be exclude from the figure ? I agree that , in order to be fair to area that include protect landscape and national park , that should be a consideration . the removal of power from councillor will only become apparent to many resident when they see a green notice on a nearby telegraph pole and contact their local councillor to express their concern , only to be tell , " I ' m sorry , but I no long have the power to ask for the application to be consider and vote on by the planning committee . " the Local Government Association itself strongly oppose these change , say that " the democratic role of councillor in decision - making be the backbone of the english planning system , and this should not be diminish . " we also have concern that the imposition of strategic planning will be use as a vehicle to force rural authority to absorb urban housing need . this be of particular concern in many rural area , give the disproportionately high increase in target for rural location . the Secretary of State have increase the national target for house building by 50 % , so the average rural resident might expect that their local housing target have increase by a similar amount , but that be not the case . accord to the House of Commons Library , the target for major urban conurbation be up by 17 % on average , while the target in mainly rural area have increase by 115 % . for example , London ' s target be down by 12 % , Newcastle ' s be down by 15 % , Birmingham ' s be down by 38 % and Coventry ' s be down by 55 % , while Wyre Forest and New Forest ' s target be up by 100 % and Westmorland ' s be up by almost 500 % . Leicestershire be a prime example of where these thing be happen . the target for Leicester city — where the infrastructure and plenty of brownfield site be — be reduce by 31 % , yet place such as Hinckley and Bosworth and North West Leicestershire be go up by 59 % and 75 % respectively . that stick in the throat of people who want to see house , when such area be suffer . do my hon . friend agree that that be simply not right ? it be totally unfair . in my view , it be cynical gerrymandering . on the exact same point , in Walsall our housing target be go up by a staggering 27 % , while Birmingham be go down . with all the trash in Birmingham — thank to the Labour council — perhaps people do not want to live there , but do my hon . friend accept that it be not just the rural community that have be affect , but those that be peripheral to the city ? my right hon . friend be right to express her concern . what everyone want to see be fairness . we would expect everybody to carry a fair share of the extra housing , but that be not what be happen . [ interruption . ] Labour member should go and have a word with the House of Commons Library if they do not agree . they can check the number out . the fact that housing delivery provide by new town will not contribute to the target will shock many councillor and local resident alike . neighbourhood plan do not have to be consistent with the NPPF ; they merely have to " have regard to " it . can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm whether that will be change ? there be nothing in Labour ' s plan about adequately resource or have process reform of the Planning Inspectorate , which be clearly a key part of the system . why have she scrap all the work we do on design code to move away from identikit housing towards build more beautifully ? we welcome the great emphasis on local plan , but we would like to see more ambitious requirement for site to be make available for small builder and for self - build . currently , it be a 10 % requirement on local authority , but we would like to see a 20 % allocation , as request by the Federation of Master Builders . we would also like to see Homes England ' s remit extend to include micro - builder . do the shadow Minister recognise that , under the previous Government , community be hinder in be able to shape propose development by only a third of local authority have up - to - date local plan ? I agree with that , and I make the same point from the Back Benches on many occasion , include about labour - run York , which have just put a local plan in place for the first time since 1956 . there be understandable concern that compulsory purchase order be an extension of the Government ' s attack on farmer . Tim Bonner of the Countryside Alliance say that " give council more power to reduce the value of land be a step too far , especially in the context of … the inheritance tax fiasco . " the Deputy Prime Minister and her colleague should heed the word of National Farmers Union vice - president Rachel Hallos , who say : " this Bill come at a time when the UK farming industry be under immense financial pressure due to the loss of direct payment , extreme weather and the impact of the family farm tax . so , farmer and landowner must be fully consult every step of the way . " can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm whether that will be the case ? the grey belt , which be sell to the public as a few abandon garage forecourt , have now be expose as the Trojan horse we predict it would be . although not directly part of this Bill , it clearly interact directly with it . it have be describe as a death knell for the green belt due to the removal of part of the definition and protection of village . village can now merge together or into nearby town . to conclude , we will not oppose the passage of the Bill this evening , but we will seek to amend it in way that do not undermine the ambition to accelerate the delivery of new home while ensure that there be check and balance that protect community , rural area , farmer and the environment and that deliver well - design , affordable home for everyone , not least those on low income and first - time buyer . rise — order . about 60 member be seek to get in , so after the Front - Bench speech have be complete there will be a five - minute time limit . it be a pleasure to follow the shadow Secretary of State . as we hear from the Secretary of State and Deputy Prime Minister , this be rightly an ambitious Bill , with 97 clause and six schedule . I will focus on part 2 , which deal with planning decision , because it be important for our constituent and because in the past I undertake planning case for the Treasury Solicitor ' s Department , when our client , the Planning Inspectorate , be affectionately know as pin — just the pin ; no needle . careful thought need to be give to the transparency of decision . the Deputy Prime Minister mention consultation . some local authority count abstention as a vote in favour while other do not , so will she consider introduce a standard process throughout the country ? I hope that all decision will be base on judicial review principle , whether they be make by a committee or by individual officer . clause 45 concern training for local planning authority . I know that there be committee member who , even after be give some training , would not know a material consideration if it hit they in the face . give that some of the decision may be controversial , our constituent need to be reassure that they can have confidence that the system be rule - base and feature procedural fairness , adequacy of reasoning and no actual or apparent bias . decision must meet this test : would a fair - minded and informed observer , have consider the fact , conclude that there be a real possibility that the decision maker have take into account relevant consideration , and have not take into account irrelevant consideration ? let I set out five important issue that apply to either a committee or a planning officer . first , if the decision be delegate to a planning officer , the officer should have undertake a site visit and it should be record . secondly , all vote in the committee should be record , which be not the case now . when we ask our constituent , " how do your councillor vote ? " , they be often unable to say . thirdly , fee be ringfence under clause 44 , but document should be available to member of the public . at present , people can not see they all unless they be online ; I have to look in three different place to find a highway report . there should still be a physical file that the public can consult . fourthly , I hope that Ministers will consider term limit for the chair of planning . finally , there be the issue of transparency , which be one of the most important element . there should be a proper procedure so that everyone , throughout the country , follow the same procedure and it be adhere to . I remember that just before the new NPPF , there be a decision involve a takeaway . the public health representative say that there be no comment and the highway authority representative say that there would be no impact and then change their mind after speak to the applicant . it be important for decision to be transparent . I welcome the strategic look at site . certain area , such as mayoral district with combined authority , may be more convenient than other . my right hon . friend be make a very thorough speech , and have raise some interesting point about the nature of the system and how to speed up decision - making . she have just mention site . do she agree that it be important for we to free up brownfield site in town and city ? there be a great deal of brownfield land in my area , and there have sometimes be lengthy delay in build it out . that have a real - life impact on young people who be try to find a house of their own . do my right hon . friend agree that the Government be right to tackle this serious problem ? I absolutely agree ; it be always " brownfield first " . I be about to say something about the green belt , but first I should make the important point that local people should not be shut out of any statutory consultation . they , and other statutory consultees , must be include in the process . green belt should be protect , although in some case infill on the edge of village and other area be acceptable . however , I must add that Walsall do not want to be join up to Birmingham . there be many thing that the right hon . Lady and I may disagree on but , when it come to not want the Walsall borough join up to Greater Birmingham , I think we both agree . I also want to raise the issue of buy to let . I hope the Deputy Prime Minister will speak to her colleague in the Treasury about the fact that buy - to - let company have become the large single type of business in the UK . there be more company set up to hold property register with Companies House than any other kind . home be for people to live in . I ask those on the Front Bench to remember Walter Segal and Moran Scott , and the Segal method house that people build for themselves in the 1970 with the Lewisham Self Build Housing Association . they be pop - up timber house . pocket of land be find and people be empower . I know you be look at I , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will conclude . the planning system should not exclude the voice of our constituent , who will have to live with the consequence of any development . development should be for the common good and for future generation , take into account the climate crisis . I know that the ministerial team be up to the task . the ability to have a home of their own have creep out of reach of a whole generation , while for other , decent emergency accommodation can not be find ; in the last five year , temporary accommodation be name as a contribute factor in the death of 58 child under one year old — baby . we urgently need to provide more home that be genuinely affordable to local people . that be why the Lib Dem council in Somerset be build hundred of new council house in part of the county for the first time in a generation : 220 new council house in north Taunton , in my constituency , and 100 additional council house elsewhere , include zero - carbon council house . Lib Dem council in Kingston , Eastleigh , York , Portsmouth , Vale of White Horse , Westmorland and Furness , and Oadby and Wigston be build thousand more new home . as a fellow Somerset MP , my hon . friend will be aware that Somerset have have 18 , 000 home stick in a plan moratorium for nearly five year . while some of those have be unlocked , many be still in limbo . the Bill be mean to fix that impasse , but do he share my concern that the measure in the Bill may actually fail to unlock that housing , unless Natural England be give the resource it need to monitor and enforce the nature restoration fund ? my hon . friend and neighbour be absolutely right , and that be why the Liberal Democrats be the only party to put in our manifesto the fund need for Natural England and the Environment Agency to address the challenge she rightly set out . Lib Dem council be also grant planning permission , thousand of they — in my county of Somerset alone , 13 , 000 home have permission but remain unbuilt . what impact do the hon . Gentleman think the 68 % cut to the affordable housing budget under the coalition Government have on the delivery of affordable housing ? there be a significant increase in empty home be bring back into use under the coalition policy promote by the Liberal Democrat Ministers . if we look at the figure for the cut the Government make between 2010 and 2024 , we see that those cut be far deep after 2015 , accord to all Departments — the record will bear that out . there be not a great cut in the affordable home budget at any point between 2010 and 2024 ; the large cut — nearly 70 % — be under the coalition Government . I be refer to the departmental cut . if we look at all Departments across Government , include Housing , Health and Education , the cut be far deep after 2015 . I hesitate to try to help the hon . gentleman with his answer , but might it be that the coalition Government be have difficulty build affordable house in that period because the former Labour Chief Secretary to the Treasury have say there be no money leave ? the hon . Gentleman be right to remind we of the letter leave by the outgoing Labour Government for the incoming coalition . we do need to tackle blockage in the system , and if those 13 , 000 home in Somerset that have permission and be not be build be be build , we would already have eliminate the 10 , 000 - plus housing waiting list in the county . my hon . friend be be very generous with his time . he be talk about plan permission be grant , but the home not be build . in Sutton in 2023 , I be a member of the planning committee that give permission for the Victoria House site , which have lie dormant ever since . permission be give for 74 home , but they be not be build . it be a frustration for I every time I cycle past to see that potential not be realise . do he agree that give council the power to take over site that have permission but be not be build would be a really important part of deliver the home that we need ? it be almost as though my hon . friend have read a further section of my speech . that be exactly what we need to do in this country to unlock some of those site . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will make a little progress , but maybe later . oh , come on — I be go to be nice to you ! we shall put that to the test later . we welcome the provision that allow compulsory acquisition — where there be a compelling case in the public interest , such as to build social housing — to go ahead on the basis of exist use value , not what the owner hope will be the value in the future , to the detriment of the public purse . that could make a big difference . it would allow council to assemble land more affordably , and to deliver more social home . however , council need to be resource to carry out such project . to that end , I be delighted that the proposal to abolish the cap on planning application fee that my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) bring forward in her Bill in 2023 be include in this Bill . would the hon . member like to take this moment to congratulate the absolute hero in his party who force it to change its policy at conference last year in favour of building home ? many of those who sit on the Benches alongside he be call out the member of his party for try to get it to do so , one of whom , a former leader , call they thatcherite . do he agree with I that build new home be not thatcherite , but be the pro - development future that this country need and that this Chamber should be support ? if the hon . Gentleman be so interested in our debate , he should please come and join our next party conference . we would be delighted to debate whether our target should be 150 , 000 social rent home per year or 300 , 000 general need home per year . of course , we need both , and that be the conclusion of our very thoughtful and timely conference debate . I congratulate the Minister for Housing and Planning and the Secretary of State — the Deputy Prime Minister — on lift that cap , on bring strategic planning into the Bill and on the change to national policy statement . I also congratulate they on the new nature restoration fund , where it provide support in relation to issue such as nutrient neutrality . as be point out by my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) , that be hold back thousand of home in Somerset , and we welcome the change . friend of the Earth have welcome the nature restoration fund , but point out that it be very unclear how the nature restoration levy will work alongside other regime . in that respect and many other , the Bill be short on the key principle . it be big on power for the Secretary of State , but short on how those power will be exercise . the Bill do not just lack detail ; it lack some really big and important principle , include how that will work with other regime . the funding of the nature restoration levy need to be up front , so that nature restoration work begin straightaway . we ask the Minister and the Government to enshrine in the Bill the principle that , on each site , development should first no do harm . that principle need to be guarantee its place at the top of the hierarchy of mitigation when it come to protect our environment . on the point about not do any harm to nature , would the hon . member ' s party support the water company become statutory consultee so that we can ensure that , with any new housing , not a litre of extra sewage go into our river ? we would support that , as we do in a Westminster Hall debate very recently . we should be hear such voice in the planning system , not shut they out of the planning system . on energy infrastructure , we welcome support for battery storage and improve access to the grid . transmission connection be a huge source of delay — one of the big bottleneck for renewable energy . but if we be to unblock that infrastructure , we need to go much far . all large - scale infrastructure project , not just electricity transmission , should give people direct community benefit . whether wind farm , solar farm , battery array or gas - fire power station , those live nearby should benefit through local investment or low bill . we also support the ambition to streamline planning for major project , with exception on take category 3 people out of compulsory purchase consultation . let we note again who the real blocker be on these really big project . they be not the people . it be nothing to do with local community or the planning profession — I declare an interest as a member of the planning profession — and it be not council . it be Ministers who leave decision lie on their desk , wreck the timescale scrupulously follow by other party in the process , so let we not blame people for politician ’ failure . there be thing to welcome in the Bill , but it hit the wrong target in many important area , and this be where I must raise some more serious concern . the detail provide in the change to national infrastructure project be good , but it be in real contrast to other area of the Bill . there be many Henry VIII clause that give sweeping power to the Secretary of State and a democratic deficit be become a serious concern . for all that we welcome the aim to deliver home , the Bill take aim at community , when we should be encouraging and empower they to deliver and create the home and place we want to see . I say again that rack up permission — we already have a staggering 1 . 5 million home without permission — will not ensure a single one get build . we need to tackle the failure to build out of permission grant by take back the land or far limit the lifetime of permission . " use it or lose it " need to be the message . unless we deal with the supply chain issue and the lack of skill , we will have even more blocker on development . how do the hon . Gentleman square his support for get more home build and help child who be live in temporary accommodation with his opposition to 250 new home in his constituency , which he announce online just this month ? I be absolutely delighted to be support thousand of new home across my constituency . the population of my constituency have go up almost 10 % over the past 10 year and I have support thousand of those new home , as have my Liberal Democrat colleague on the planning committee who vote through all those permission . if occasionally a small development in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be not right , I would expect he to oppose it , just as I would in my constituency . I believe member across the House have do so . by give more power to community , a community - lead approach could actually increase supply . it be time , for example , to give council the power to end right to buy in their area . they can not fill the bath , in term of provide council house and social home , if the plug be take out and they be force to sell they off as they have do over the precede decade . through proper planning , we also want community in control of how many holiday let be allow in their area , so that home be not swallow up that could otherwise increase the supply of affordable housing . that be not in the Bill and should be . mandate renewable energy such as solar panel on roof , as my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) articulately argue for , would put people and local community in control of the bill come from their pocket . grow our economy , sustain nature and build new home be not mutually exclusive . they can work together . there be so many example of how they can work together . for example , decent garden have more biodiversity than many rural area . community - lead decision very often bring the good result , with resident ' infrastructure need address and development shape around green space and sustainability . to unblock home , the Government need to do two key thing instead of take aim at ordinary people : first , unlock the infrastructure we need , include GPs , transport , green space , green infrastructure and water connection ; and , secondly , fund the social home that have be so sorely lacking . since social housing disappear as a meaningful proportion of housing supply and social housing target fall away , this country have never be able to keep pace with demand . our target be 150 , 000 per year . I hope the Government will provide a target of their own for social home ; so far , nothing have be say on that either . invest in those two thing , as history have teach we , and the number of home we could provide would be almost unlimited . meanwhile , in community like my own — where the 2 , 000 - home Orchard Grove development in the west of Taunton , which I support , be take shape — the reality be that while many people want to see new GP surgery , development be hold back by the fact that we often can not get GPs to staff the surgery where they be be build . we want to see a Bill about community lead in planning and development . instead , the Bill be part of a grow trend that be take power away from local community . it take a big step in that direction by allow the Secretary of State to override planning committee and enable national scheme of delegation that allow Whitehall to dictate who make decision on a local council — another Henry VIII clause , give Whitehall unlimited power to rewrite the standing order and constitution of council up and down the country . that can not possibly sit right with anybody who value our proud tradition of local government that be independent of central Government . consultation be sideline elsewhere , too . Sport England will no long have a voice to protect playing field , and people subject to compulsory purchase order will no long have the voice they have before . if the Government believe that local be the problem and that plan committee be the blocker , let we take a quick look at the actual figure . council approve more than 85 % of planning application , with some study put that figure even high — close to 90 % . councillor of all party be not block development ; they be enable 90 % of permission to go through . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the emphasis in the Bill on remove the power of planning committee will , by default , lead the public to believe that plan committee throughout the year have actually be the problem ? in reality , many plan committee have do their mandatory training and make the right decision , and those decision have be uphold by the Planning Inspectorate time and again . it should be put on the record for the public that plan committee , as a whole , be not the problem . there be a huge range of issue that we might need to deal with , but that be not one . I come back to what the LGA say : the role councillor play in the planning system be the backbone of that system . that be the way it should remain . take decision out of councillor ' hand be take decision out of the hand of local people . develop and shape town or neighbourhood without the input of the councillor who have that level of trust and local knowledge will make those neighbourhood and development poorer and even more likely to fail . frankly , remove people and their councillor from the system do not mean fast planning , but less democratic planning . it will mean that people be shut out and make they lose faith in the system even more ; it will mean more legal challenge and more people who feel shut out from the system . the Bill risk make development not only slow , but bad . there be , of course , another way . instead of a Bill that shut people out and shut they up , silence voice and fail people on the basic service and infrastructure their community need , we should look to the great community - lead development of the past , and more recently , from Letchworth and Welwyn Garden Cities and Hampstead Garden Suburb , to local authority - lead new town such as Milton Keynes , right up to the award - win scheme often build in partnership with the public and private sector up and down the country right now — development where nature , people and the economy grow together , not in opposition to each other , as we see in the good place that we all know and enjoy visit . if we build with the economy and with those who want growth , and for nature by develop with nature and for people by develop with people , we will build the home , job and service that our community want to see , that our country deserve and that our environment and our planet so desperately need . the origin of Britain ' s planning system be as deeply rooted in the legacy of the post - war Labour Government as that of the national health service and the welfare state . like those great labour institution , it have face relentless underfunding , attack and dismantle from the Conservatives , who prioritise the right of wealthy landowner over the entitlement of work people to affordable housing and quality infrastructure . I commend the Government for bring forward a Bill that offer the opportunity to at last get to grip with the appalling mess make of the planning system by the party opposite ; after all , it be they who allow more than 14 , 000 hectare of our good farmland to be lose to development since 2010 . the reality be that while we now have substantially more home per capita than 50 year ago — a surplus that have grow rapidly in recent year — house price in the UK have rise by 3 , 878 % since 1971 . whatever may be say by their lobbyist , the housing crisis be not a straightforward issue of supply , and it will not be solve by simply put more power in the hand of profiteer developer . wait for a market solution to this societal emergency would be an exercise in utterly extravagant futility . for the past 30 year , successive government have attempt to deliver affordable housing through the private sector , and they have fail . do my hon . friend agree that it be time for a publicly fund council house building programme ? I completely agree . the Government need to deliver a coherent vision for development in this country that match the clarity and boldness of labour ' s 1947 vision , put democratic control and social justice back at the heart of the planning system . first , we must contend with the fact that more than 1 . 2 million home that be grant planning permission since 2015 have not be build . rather than wait for developer to drip feed land into the system at their convenience , keep price high and profit maximise , we must introduce firm financial penalty for land banking to spur on construction and dampen price inflation . secondly , in town like Buntingford and Royston , although thousand of house have be build in recent year , local people remain stuck on sky - high waiting list , with enormous knock - on cost for those family and our wide community . we must therefore address not just the aggregate quantity of building but the type of home we be provide with a new era of council housing , especially in our small town and village . the housing crisis be also about the concentration of land ownership in the hand of the super - rich . half of England be own by less than 1 % of its population . between 1995 and 2022 , land value rise by more than 600 % to £ 7 . 2 trillion , now represent more than 60 % of the UK ' s total net worth . I welcome the Bill ' s expansion of power for local authority to prevent developer cash in on inflated land price at the cost of the taxpayer . we must maximise the public capture of land value uplift to provide the necessary funding for genuinely affordable home that be link to local income and base in well - design community that benefit from easy access to all the facility we need in our daily life . simultaneously , the Government must also grasp this opportunity to reshape how council develop local plan . empower council with well - resource planning department should be able to take an active role to assess the need of local family , identify appropriate site and proactively use compulsory purchase order for genuinely strategic land assembly to meet the need of their community . finally , give the collapse of nature in our country , we must use this legislation to recognise the very real environmental limit on growth . it be high time our planning system ensure that a presumption in favour of sustainable development cease to act as a presumption in favour of any development whatsoever . I look forward to work with Ministers to advance this legislation and secure the strong possible Bill , which restore our role as custodian of the countryside , compel the private sector to deliver and place the power to meet our housing and infrastructure need firmly back in democratic hand . South Leicestershire be a mid - sized constituency measure 15 mile by 10 mile , and it already have some of the large - scale development in any part of our country . we have the second of the new Titan prison , which be recently complete ; one of the large hole in the UK at Croft quarry ; Bruntingthorpe aerodrome , which currently house one of the large UK car auction site , with 25 , 000 car come in and out at any point ; the 4 , 000 - home development at New Lubbesthorpe ; and the prospect of a new garden village at Whetstone Pastures . we be surround by logistic park ; in fact , we be home to one of Europe ' s large logistic park — currently double in size — Magna Park . at what point can we say that we be do a reasonable fair share for our county , region and country ? there be no nimbys in South Leicestershire ; we generally support appropriate development . I generally support the objective in the Bill , but there be one or two area I would like to raise , one be the highly controversial propose development know as Lutterworth East . I know that the Secretary of State and her team can not refer to specific case and that this matter be currently the subject of a call - in , but she and her team rightly say that new housing development , particularly large one , must have appropriate number of social housing and affordable housing . the local plan approve by Harborough district council and the Planning Inspectorate make clear that 40 % of the home in large - scale housing development in my constituency must be affordable . in addition , the Lutterworth East proposal promise the people of Lutterworth that there would be no expansion of strategic warehousing as part of Lutterworth East on the basis that Magna Park — one of Europe ' s large logistic park — be currently double in size . the problem that we have be not nimbys or a lack of building . it be that the local plan for South Leicestershire and Harborough be be completely ignore by developer . in this case , the oddity be that the developer be Leicestershire county council . only last December it disgracefully apply to substantially vary the planning permission it be give in 2020 for Lutterworth East . it be grant a reduction from 40 % affordable housing in Lutterworth East to 10 % . that can not be in line with the comment the new Government have state many time about the need for social housing and affordable housing . it fly in the face of everything that the Secretary of State and her team be say , include what have be say today at the Dispatch Box . I do not expect a response from the Secretary of State today , but I put on record my request that , if she be serious about want more affordable housing in large - scale housing project , the call - in should be grant . if the call - in be grant , Lutterworth East will be restore to an appropriate housing development of just under 3 , 000 home , of which 40 % will be affordable . if the Secretary of State do not agree with the call - in , I be afraid she can not stand at that Dispatch Box and claim that the new Government want to see high level of affordable housing , because what the developer be do in this case be say no to affordable housing . I conclude by state my general support for the Secretary of State and her team ' s objective of more home . South Leicestershire be do its part , but I put on record again that if she be serious about the number of social housing and affordable home that need to be build , that call - in must be grant . I welcome the Bill . when I study for my planning diploma , I learn that since the Town and Country Planning Act 1947 , the power of national strategic policy versus the challenge of local politic in planning approval have wax and wane . it feel under the previous Government as though national power over significant development decision almost disappear , and mps of the Government party effectively pressure the then Secretary of State to refuse much - need infrastructure development that include new housing development , prison and more . there have to be a balance . the national Government have to be able to deliver on their national strategy . this be what the Bill do . I particularly welcome specific part of the Bill . it foster more certainty for critical national infrastructure such as electricity — that be so important , as we hear early in the Heathrow statement — clean energy , road , public transport , water and sewerage . I welcome the certainty of decision making for planning application , more effective land assembly through improve the compulsory purchase order process and bring back development corporation , and the return of effective spatial development strategy . the Bill will enable the Government to reform the planning system to deliver on growth , new housing , cut carbon emission and climate change resilience — all of which the UK badly need . as an MP in London where buy a home or even rent be out of reach to most young people , I welcome the Government ' s focus on deliver the 1 . 5 million new home that be need . the Bill and the excellent national planning policy framework enable new housing development to no long be design with entrenched car dependence . the Bill be an excellent opportunity to ensure that new housing and other development can be concentrate in location with good public transport , so that school , shop , health centre , park and open space be easily reachable without the need to drive . this ensure access for all , not only those who have a car . it ensure access to job , education , training and shop — all essential building block for growth across the country . my constituency neighbour be make a strong speech . I agree with she about build home in area that be accessible by public transport . do she agree that the Government should be encourage to ensure that where the public sector be sell off land and building — disuse police station , fire station or other public sector building — it should be allow to sell below market value , and should be encourage to do so to enable more affordable housing and social housing in constituency like mine and her , where there just be not the land to build on ? my constituency neighbour make a good point , but she must remember that due to 15 year of austerity , many of those sale be the only way that public sector institution could deliver the new service that be so badly need . the Mayor of London and council such as Hounslow be work with the Labour Government on several key transport link , include the west London orbital , which will unlock thousand of new home . however , the Bill alone will not unlock the housing and infrastructure project that the country so urgently need , so I ask the Secretary of State — or the Minister for Housing and Planning , who be still present — to address the other cause of delay and uncertainty that we be see in the system . the community infrastructure levy and section 106 agreement on , say , new bus route , must be adequate , timely and sustainable , so that people be not move into estate to then become dependent on have a car . provide two bus a day for a couple of year , some time after ten or even hundred of home have be occupy , be not build in sustainable transport . my second point be about new joint public - private development . the hybrid Bill process , as be use for High Speed 2 , take year and still do not deliver detailed plan for the route . it then get mire in lengthy legal process over the detail . the chairman of the National Infrastructure Commission tell our Transport Committee how France and Spain deliver new high - speed rail in a fraction of the time , without it be mire in public opposition and legal challenge . it have take far too long to deliver even half of the original hs2 project . I therefore hope that the Government will come up with a more streamlined process for such major national project . thirdly , I hope that the Secretary of State will work with the Chancellor on different public - private funding mechanism that other equivalent economy have long use to develop transport infrastructure , social and affordable housing and other public service , so that they be no long hold back due to historic Treasury orthodoxy on capital expenditure . fourthly , the Housing Minister will be aware of the additional delay face by developer of tall block of flat . they have plan permission but be be delay in gateway 2 and 3 of the Building Safety Act 2022 . the legislation itself may not be the problem , but the building safety regulator process certainly be . a development of more than 400 home in my constituency have be stick for over a year , with no certainty about if and when they will go ahead . obviously , my last three point be not within the scope of the Bill , but they be relevant to the aspiration of this Labour Government to get Britain building , which the Bill will deliver . there be no doubt that we need new home , but it be abundantly clear from my casework and from doorstep conversation in North East Hampshire — and I be sure in many other place — that the effect of a warm planet and many year of neglect infrastructure be wreak havoc on our community . in order to stop the damage , we must look after nature as we build , and ensure a well - think - out approach to our public service , to integrate new home and their local environment effectively . it be frustrating to say the least to see labour remove the space for local decision making and consent . local people know their area . in North East Hampshire , chalk stream be close to our heart but far too close to our sewage outlet . there be only around 200 chalk stream leave in the world , and two of they be in my constituency . these remarkable , irreplaceable habitat be home to iconic specie include otter , kingfisher and salmon . despite that , they have not be protect — last year alone , chalk stream endure 14 , 000 hour of sewage discharge . chalk stream be under threat not just from sewage but from irresponsible development that promise protection and abandon those promise after planning permission be grant . I strongly support what the hon . Lady be say , and any specific protection for chalk stream . do she feel that the Bill go far enough on that , or be specific legislation need to preserve these beautiful , almost unique thing that we have in this country ? the right hon . Member have anticipate my next point . to ensure that development be approach effectively and sustainably , there must be legislation to protect chalk stream . the Government should use the Bill to expand the list of irreplaceable habitat that be severely threaten and include chalk stream in it . mitigation scheme will not help these unique habitat . they need protection . unbelievably , this be the second Bill in six month that the Government could have use to protect our precious chalk stream , as the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill also fail to mention they specifically . like my hon . friend , I have two chalk stream in my constituency . do she agree that make water company statutory consultee in any future development will ensure provision of the infrastructure that be require , so that no more pollution go into our chalk stream ? I completely agree . the Government should be more ambitious in the Bill to ensure that building regulation mandate nature - friendly development to provide sustainable and healthy housing . I agree that Britain be among the most nature - deplete country in all of Europe . do the hon . member agree with Greenpeace , the Green Alliance and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds that if development be do hand in hand with nature , both can thrive , and that the Bill achieve that ? I agree that nature and building should go hand in hand , and I hope that the Bill will start to achieve that . good green and sustainable design work for everyone concern . sufficient insulation in home prevent heat loss and reduce bill and carbon emission . solar energy production and proper flood protection be other obvious example where investment up front pay dividend down the line . a great example in North East Hampshire be Hart district council office . since the installation of solar panel on the roof , a phenomenal 57 , 000 kWh of electricity have be generate each year . imagine if we put solar panel on every new house that be build . major issue such as flooding and drainage plague many area up and down the country . in my constituency , Hartley Wintney high street , Hook and the surround area be frequently flood because of block drain , as surface water can not drain away effectively after heavy rainfall . Hartley Wintney fire station even have to raise all its electrical socket high up the wall because the flooding have be so frequent . our local business be struggle to get sufficient insurance . the Bill should include a bind commitment to the land use framework , which would help to determine where more permanent land use change can occur , to find the optimum balance between food production and ecosystem service such as flood risk management , climate mitigation and biodiversity . I come again to the question of new house . we need they and we need they fast , but this be a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to ensure that our new home be properly fit for the future . they must be build in the right place , with the right infrastructure and with proper consideration for our food security , biodiversity and carbon footprint . community do not mind new home , but people also want GP appointment , nhs dentist , rural bus service and to be able to drive down road with no pothole . there be an opportunity to be ambitious here , and it be be miss . I urge the Government to be bold and to strive for planning that be as commit to the environment , to integrate infrastructure and to our local community as it be to housing . I thank the people across Government and from the Department who have work so hard to pull this Bill together quite quickly . I also thank the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) for the first shout out to Milton Keynes in the debate . hon . member may be about to hear many more . in politic we all like to talk about our own story and how they have impact we . I have sit on these Benches and hear the Education Secretary talk about how her education have help she in life , and the Health Secretary talk about how his interaction with the NHS during his cancer diagnosis drive he to fix our health service . what be important to my life — I believe this be true of most young people ' s life — be have a decent home surround by a decent community . Milton Keynes , my home town , be found the last time an Act of Parliament be pass to make this country build 300 , 000 home a year . its pioneer push hard to get the place build , which mean that my parent be able to bring up my brother and I in a spacious home with our own back garden , give we the security and stability need for the good start in life . it mean that I could play safely in green space , I have access to excellent local amenity and my family could live affordably with a good quality of life . that be the kind of opportunity that every child in Britain deserve , so it be great to see legislation that will finally begin to remove the barrier to build the new home that this country so desperately need . with the change to development corporation and cpo , we may also see the new town that this country so desperately need . the proposal for planning committee will play a key role in ensure that much - need development do not get stick in unnecessary bureaucracy and political gridlock . do my hon . friend agree that local people will still have a role in develop local plan and in many of the more complicated planning application ? some of what we have hear today around local input have be scaremongere . that be true . Certainty be incredibly important to enable the housing sector to invest in the skill , development and modern method of construction that will enable we to alleviate the country ' s housing crisis . beyond housing , we must recognise that our failure to build vital infrastructure in Britain be leave our country vulnerable . our energy security — the foundation of our national security — depend on have infrastructure to support a modern , productive economy . we have fail to build the transport link that be need to get good and people move efficiently . we have fail to build the energy infrastructure that be need to reduce our dependence on volatile foreign oil and gas , and we have not build a single reservoir in decade , mean that we lack the water security that be require in the face of climate change . Labour member keep use the suggestion that reservoir have not be build in recent time as an example of why the Government be proceed with the Bill . however , under current guideline and legislation , a reservoir be be build down the road in my constituency , so it be not a great example to use , be it ? I note the length of time that that reservoir have take to be build . it would be nice if someone on the Conservative Benches start by acknowledge their government ' s lack of ability to build the infrastructure that this country so desperately need for decade . the barrier that they constantly put in the way of build it be one reason why we be in this situation . our national security be only ever as strong as our economic security . sure , we should be invest in defence , but we can do so only if we have a strong economy . one of the big reason why we have not have a grow economy or economic security be because it have become too difficult to build in Britain . I be proud to support a Bill that will get Britain build again . I will talk briefly about the nature restoration fund , which in principle be a policy masterstroke . what be most shameful about our current nature legislation set - up , include the habitat regulation , be not just that it stop we from build the home and infrastructure that our country need and that it damage our economy in the meantime , but that it do not even work on its own term . as be mention early , Britain be one of the most nature - deplete country in the world ; I be tell that it be second only to Singapore . why be that ? because the money that we force builder to pay for nature project be not be spend in the most efficient way . take for example , as my hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) point out , the infamous bat tunnel , which cost we more than £ 120 million to protect a tiny proportion of bat , all while critical infrastructure project be delay or cancel . imagine what we could have do for nature not just with that money , but with the extra money that would have be provide to our economy by not stall that project for so long . although the nature restoration fund be a welcome step forward , we must ensure that it work . it be heavily reliant on Natural England bring forward workable delivery plan in a timely fashion . do my hon . friend agree that open green space be not always the most biodiverse , and that we need a more join - up approach to provide investment in those space ? I agree , and I hope that the nature restoration fund can be an opportunity to make those space more biodiverse . I be try to support a wetland art project in my constituency that would use such money to improve biodiversity . I hope that all the organisation that , like I , care about nature recovery will do the right thing and support these change — they will be the good thing for nature in decade — rather than try to defend an indefensible status quo . finally , as somebody who owe much of my fantastic upbringing to a development corporation , I turn to the crucial issue of how we will fund development corporation when we start build the new town . although the change introduce by the Bill be promise , at some point we will need to think about that financing . for every pound that be invest in Milton Keynes , many more be give back to the Treasury — somebody say the ratio be 14 : 1 , but I have not find a source for that . currently , any debt issue by development corporation to private capital must be add to the Government ' s balance sheet . however , a simple change to Treasury accounting , to count those corporation in the same way as the bank that fall into public ownership after the financial crash , could unlock huge sum of international private capital to fund these vital home and project . that approach be consistent with those take by many european counterpart , and we should actively explore it as a priority . I will support the Bill today , but I urge Ministers to be honest that this be not a moment for self - congratulation . we need to continue to go far and fast to build the home and the infrastructure that this country so desperately need . to pick up the comment make by the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) on reservoir , I also have a reservoir propose for my constituency . I note that the Secretary of State refuse to be draw on specific scheme , include when challenge by her own Front Bench . perhaps the Minister can tell we in wind up how much more quickly a typical reservoir will be construct as a result of this Bill and what the percentage of saving will be from that . that sort of detail be currently lack from claim such as those make by the hon . member . [ interruption . ] I note the Minister ' s wry smile . let I start by pick up what the Government say last week and what they be say this week . last week , they say that they be scrap a big quango , NHS England , because they want to ensure more democratic oversight , yet this week they be give huge new power to another quango , Natural England , so that they can seize land at below market value with little democratic oversight . indeed , the hon . Member just mention the bat tunnel . it be a strange paradox to criticise that while support give Natural England more power to make similar decision . there be not just a lack of consistency , but a lack of co - ordination across Government . the Government be currently consult on the land use framework — the consultation be open and do not close until 25 April — but Ministers seem to be ignore that . the Secretary of State talk in her opening remark about the Bill unlock land for nature and energy scheme , so we have one part of the Government consulting on the land use strategy while another part be legislate to seize land that be in the scope of that ongoing consultation to use for its scheme . it would be helpful if the Minister tell we why he be ignore the consultation that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be conduct . perhaps we will just have a slew of Government amendment . if the new power for Natural England be indeed necessary , that suggest that a significant amount of land will be take for nature restoration scheme . we know from the land use strategy that about 12 , 000 farm will be lose over a generation . either the power be need — in that case , what be the impact of clause 72 on farmland and farm security ? — or not much land will be take as a result , in which case why do we need this power now ? in the shadow Secretary of State ' s opening remark , he point to the number of Cabinet Ministers who have object to development scheme in their own constituency . that be a challenge that we all face , as Members of Parliament , when constituent raise concern . certainly , my experience of deal with Natural England — not least as Secretary of State for DEFRA — be that once thing be in primary legislation , it would often take a gold - plate interpretation . it may just be that Ministers be be bold , but it would be helpful to understand why they think that grant further power to seize land will not weaken democratic control . when the Secretary of State be challenge on that , she say that the democratic control be be maintain but streamline . I do not think that be how Natural England will interpret it . let I give the House a practical example . in the David Fursdon review of Dartmoor , there be conflict in interpretation regard site of special scientific interest between Natural England and farmer who have farm the common for many year . there be huge tension , which David Fursdon skilfully manage to resolve , but that will not happen if the power in the Bill be enact . finally , there be a paradox . the people we need on side to support nature restoration be the farmer , who be the one who care most about nature . the Bill be a miss opportunity on thing like incinerator , as it will make it easy to get planning permission to burn plastic , which be damage for the environment and damage for nature . and yet the farmer , who be the people we need on side , will have their land confiscate by an undemocratic quango that be be give more control , and there be nothing in the Bill to address that . give the shortage of time , it would be helpful if , in closing , the Minister could clarify some of those point . I declare an interest as the vice - president of the Local Government Association . I support the Bill because we must do everything we can to deliver the building of more housing in this country . as the Member for Barking , I see and hear at first hand the impact of the housing crisis . every week , I meet constituent who share their personal and desperate housing story . to fix the housing crisis , we require political will alongside national initiative and investment from the Government , but we must also change the policy foundation , because the national planning system be not fit for purpose . as a former London council leader who deliver a local plan that designate land for 30 , 000 new home , I know only too well that the exist planning framework frustrate house building and that the voice of those oppose new home — often individual who already own their own home — be prioritise . the truth be that our planning system rely too much on the political bravery of local councillor . local plan for new home be stop by a vocal minority in too many case . this create a national patchwork of house building , and the planning system be use to slow down decision making in the hope that the applicant will eventually just give up . I welcome the fact that , through the Bill , the Government will create a national scheme of delegation . this will allow planning professional to work more effectively , ensure consistency across the country . allow planning authority the flexibility to set their own fee and recover cost be an important step , but give that there be a £ 360 million deficit nationally , will the Minister reassure we all that the council will be hold responsible for ringfence that income in their planning department so that local authority can improve their performance ? transport and infrastructure form a crucial component in unlock the potential for house building , because both private and public sector development need clear business case to build . strong business case rely on land value , which be boost by infrastructure , include but not exclusively transport connectivity . the measure in the Bill to streamline the process for agree nationally important infrastructure be therefore welcome , but I would like the Government to consider whether the Bill go far enough . the HS2 bat tunnel be frequently mention in this Chamber , but there be other example , include the low Thames crossing , which have be delay for over three decade . it have become the UK ' s big ever planning application , with over 2 , 000 page and cost £ 800 million in planning cost . take application through the national significant infrastructure project process — a mouthful to say — be too costly and take far too long . a large part of the problem be the statutory pre - application consultation requirement . this mean that all the party involve operate in a hyper - risk - averse manner , focus on endless negotiation . that serve the taxpayer and our community in no way , so I encourage my hon . friend the Minister to look again specifically at reform the pre - application process to reduce delay and get essential infrastructure consent fast . the hon . Lady rightly talk about ambition and ensure that we get planning application deliver quickly . do she think that the 56 % reduction and the 1 , 694 few home that her local Labour council will have to deliver will speed up the length of time it will take for they to get through ? the hon . Gentleman give I an opportunity to highlight the fact that my local authority have be build home far fast than most local authority across the country . the general slow in the delivery of housing over the past two year be absolutely to do with the fact that the previous Government crash the economy and that interest rate and inflation go through the roof . I have yet to come across a developer or local authority that do not say that all its pipeline be impact by the economic crisis . the hon . Lady be correct to say that there be some issue with housing supply during the last economic crisis , but the number that I be ask she about relate to her Government ' s proposal under the new scheme . will she tell her constituent or her labour councillor — who she do not think should make planning decision locally — whether she support the 1 , 694 few house that her Government be require her council to deliver ? my local authority have commit to build home and it have a good record . one barrier to be able to deliver home at speed be the fact that we see infrastructure delay year after year . with the Bill ' s proposal to allow cpos and land assembly to happen far quick , we will see home build at pace in a way that we have not see in a generation in this country . I take this opportunity to thank the Ministers and their team for their work . the Bill provide a generational opportunity for we to get house building back on track in this country . it be a welcome shake - up to the planning system . it will help to deliver the home and infrastructure that be so desperately need in this country . it be the first step of many that will allow we to tackle the housing crisis that my constituent in Barking and Dagenham be so badly impact by every single day . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) in what be a critical and important debate that will affect my constituency in Mid Buckinghamshire very deeply . back Benchers on both side of the House have make some sensible suggestion in this debate . I particularly support the point make on the protection of chalk stream , which be important to my constituency as well . but I have deep concern about the tone of the Bill and some of the rhetoric underneath its defence . I would categorise it as a Bill that do thing to community , particularly rural community , as oppose to with they . the Minister can probably predict some of the thing I be about to say , as we sit on the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill Committee in the last Parliament together over very many week and with many , many housing Ministers over that period . I will not apologise , however , for represent my constituent who , time after time , be feed up to the back tooth of lose our rural identity and our rural character due to the constant flow of housing and infrastructure project that devastate our countryside and the rural identity of Buckinghamshire . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? before I give way to the hon . Gentleman , I just want to say that we in Buckinghamshire feel that we have probably already do our bit with a new town , as it be now a 250 , 000 - population city call Milton Keynes . with that , I will give way to the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) . I recently visit my 93 - year - old grandmother , who be a constituent live in rural Buckinghamshire back in the 1960 . at that time , she express many of the concern that he have just express about a city be build around her rural community , but if you ask she now , she will tell you about the fantastic opportunity that Milton Keynes give to her child and grandchild , to the point where one of they be now sit on these Benches able to make speech and intervention . sometimes we need to have change and development , and sometimes we need to support it . I understand the point that the hon . Gentleman be make . Milton Keynes be very close to I . I visit Milton Keynes all the time . I have many friend in Milton Keynes . it be a great city . however , a line in the sand have to be draw as to the amount of our countryside , our farmland and our food - produce land that we allow to be lose to development of whatever kind . my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , in his speech early , reel off a list of thing that be already happen in his constituency , where they be already play their part . in my own constituency , while we have have concern about a lot of it , there have be an enormous list of thing . the amount of house building in Buckinghamshire have be extraordinary . the village of Haddenham be unrecognisable from what it be because of the sheer volume of new house building that have go on there . there be also incinerator , and we be about to get a new prison . despite our objection , HS2 have ravage the middle of the constituency . it be not as though Buckinghamshire have not do anything . my hon . friend make an excellent point . we have give way to infrastructure , include hs2 , motorway and data centre across the entire green belt with very little community consent , and now , with this new Bill , all community consent seem to be go out the window . how can we protect the vital green space in my constituency , which provide the lung of London and which will be destroy because everyone will want a piece of the small bit of green belt we still have leave ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . the point she make be absolutely right and it apply equally to my constituency as to hers . in my constituency , the backbone of our economy be agriculture and food production . the Labour party use to say in its manifesto that " food security be national security " yet this Bill seek to build all over the very land that our farmer in Buckinghamshire and across the country use to produce the very food that give we national security . I want to focus on the infrastructure implication from the energy sector . I entirely approve of transition to clean form of energy production , but it be a point I have make in this House time and again , and I will never get bore of say it , that it take 2 , 000 acre of ground - mount solar panel to produce enough electricity for 50 , 000 home on current usage . that be before everyone have two Teslas — which be perhaps not the brand that people would choose now — on the drive . however , a small modular reactor need just two football pitch to deliver enough electricity on current usage for 1 million home . why on earth in this country be we mess around with solar , destroy thousand of acre of food - produce land , when other clean technology be out there that can clean up our energy and electricity production in a way that be kind and gentle on our national fabric and rural community ? when I hear the Secretary of State talk about , as she do in her opening address , protect high - grade agricultural land , I take that with a large pinch of salt . that be because , in my constituency in Buckinghamshire , we have catch those pay exorbitant amount of money to come and grade the land prior to a planning application deliberately test the land in the headland of the field — the bit not use to grow crop or grass or to graze animal . of course , they will always get a low land grade by test the headland . if the Government be serious about want to protect high - grade agricultural land , I would urge the Minister to look at measure he could take to ensure that the fertile part of the field be test , not the headland . do the hon . member accept that we have to keep the matter in perspective ? even under the most ambitious scenario , solar farm would occupy less than 1 % of the UK ' s agricultural land . that be why the National Farmers Union president Tom Bradshaw state in relation to the impact of solar project on food security that it be important not to be " sensationalist " . the point the Minister make be one that certainly in Buckinghamshire I would challenge . I do not think any Labour Members be there , but there be a good cross - party meeting a couple of week ago on the scale of solar project come into this country . that disproportionately affect rural community , and this Bill seem to take against they in favour of the UK ' s town and city . on top of the stat I give early on the efficiency of solar , we have have scientist — not just campaigner — come here to give clear evidence that , of all the country in the world , only one be less suitable for solar than our , and that be Iceland . the Government be not even make the case for a technology that be particularly suited to the United Kingdom , yet the Bill would just make it easy , and those who object to or challenge it on any level will just to have to go away , suck it up and take those project in their backyard . this Bill take away local control , and for I , local control will always be the most important part of the planning process . unlike those do the desktop exercise from afar , the community know the field that flood every single year , know the local factor that would impact a planning application , understand the local road that would have to take the construction traffic and that get churn up every time a development come along , and know how unsuitable they be . local control be critical , and I urge the Minister , even at this late hour , to go back and think about whether what he want to do be simply ride roughshod over local opinion . despite the many fine contribution make by member so far and no doubt many yet to come , plan be quite a dreary subject for many . indeed , I hear some senior member of this House privately describe it as such . I can well remember as a young labour member sit through constituency party meeting wonder why we be talk about plan for such a long time . surely , I think , we should want to focus on education , health and inequality . I be afraid that it take I a long time to realise — until I be one of those dreary people sit at meeting say these thing — that planning be central not only to each of those issue , but to just about every aspect of Government policy and , indeed , to our daily life . unfortunately , far too often the system and those we task with run it come under attack , include by those who should know well . planning be attack for delay , excessive red tape and perception of nimbyism . for every 10 planning application submit , nine be approve . that be hardly the sign of a system oppose to development . where the system struggle be with capacity . the time it take for a decision to be reach have increase significantly over the year , not just for the application but all the subsequent decision require for development to commence . do my hon . friend agree that that be why we need significantly more planning officer in our local authority to ensure that we can unlock a lot of that development ? my hon . friend must be read ahead . the impact on escalate cost and viability as a result of the delay be hard to overstate . the capacity issue do not stem from laziness or as a covert form of development suppression ; they stem from one issue and one issue only : the absence of sufficient number of planner in the public sector . the rate of pay at local authority be massively out of kilter with the private sector . the consequence be that an increasingly small number of extremely hard - work people be leave try to keep the system afloat principally out of their public spiritedness . yet , instead of receive the thank they deserve , all too often they have to deal with public rhetoric that regularly denigrate they and the work they do . I hope that I be not the first or the last in this Chamber to thank those public servant for their effort on behalf of our community and country . much need to be do to reverse the decline in public sector planner number . while the Bill set out many positive step forward , I remain of the belief that few area in the public sector would be well suit to , or would generate well economic return from , the introduction of AI than plan . it could use decade ' worth of computerised training datum to deal with simple application automatically , free up expert human planner to deal with the case that would genuinely benefit from a human eye . as a former council leader , I be defensive of the record of local government in planning . however , despite my initial scepticism , I find much that be good in the new national planning policy framework and in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , show that this government genuinely listen to voice across the sector . give the hon . member ' s expertise as a former council leader , would he agree that the provision in the Bill that enable council to set fee for planning could go far , particularly around the fee that could be charge for enforcement case ? he will know the amount of hour that planning officer spend tie up in their inboxe deal with the enforcement of rogue individual who seem to play cat and mouse with official . would he agree that a look at fee might be a sensible option ? I have learn over the year not to look a gift house in the mouth . this be a positive step forward . no doubt other step could be take in future , but this be significant in enable the system to be far more sustainable than it have be of late . there must always be a role for local expertise and knowledge in planning decision and democratic oversight , but that do not mean that the way we have always do thing in the past need to be the way we do it in the future . indeed , it do not mean a well or fair outcome , and a long process be not always a well one . I be sure that we all have experience of planning decision , both nationally and locally , that have take a long time to produce the decision we all know would be the final decision from day one , and that in no way meet the need of resident or our community . planner tell I that planning be a matter of balance , and in this Bill , the Government balance all the relevant consideration well . another example of deliver balance be in deal with nature . Crawley have the second bad housing crisis in the country , and during my time as leader of the council , I deliver over four time the number of unit as our centrally assess Government housing target . I point out that target be a floor not a ceiling — they in no way restrict future development . that come to an end when Natural England unilaterally impose water neutrality restriction on all development in north Sussex — an area that , accord to the figure , have a large economy than most of our core city — on the basis that it have concern about the wellbeing of the little whirlpool ramshorn snail . as a result , since that time , housing delivery in my area have grind to a halt and economic development have be hamper , and member would not believe the level of debate take place on Facebook about whether Taco Bell will ever open . all the while , we be wait for our local water company to build the water infrastructure that have be desperately need for some time . I have nothing against little snail , but the consequence of that decision be that , until Natural England feel that its need have be satisfied , almost 2 % of my community be trap in temporary housing at huge cost to the public sector — not to mention the enormous human cost to those family . the ability to improve our natural environment alongside development be a vital part of be able to avoid force a conflict between human and environmental need . the offsetting process that the Bill deliver be exactly the change that we require . I be also pleased to see in the Bill the development of spatial development strategy , which be a vital part of ensure that housing need be address beyond the limitation of any single authority . anyone who have deal with the current duty to co - operate system will recognise that it be largely a paper exercise that in no way actually deliver the housing require across sub - region . spatial development strategy overcome that in a coherent and plan - out way , and at a level far close and more democratically accountable to resident than the old regional spatial strategy — a significant improvement . this government be finally give the planning system the modernisation that it need , and I very much hope that they do not stop now . with that in mind , I will end on a topic of great concern to I : affordable housing . the NPPF be right not to set out strict affordability requirement for local plan , give the difference in local viability , in addition to set out a 15 % additional requirement for greenfield land . new town will no doubt have a significant role to play in deliver new affordable housing , as will the relatively small amount of funding allocate so far , but I believe that much more need to be do to deliver the number of affordable home that be need . although I could bore the Minister with many suggestion , I will focus on sub - regional planning through the new spatial development strategy . housing be not merely a number game . other factor matter , not least the size and cost of housing . although there be mechanism for deliver overall housing number , in area such as my own , where the duty to co - operate be facilitate , meet those number very often deliver housing that be neither affordable nor the right type and for which there be no allocation right . I very hope that the Government will correct those issue in their work . there be so many point to address in the Bill , but I will keep my remark to just a few . I have grave concern that the Government ' s agreeable aim of free up our planning system will be drag far by this Bill into the bog of planning delay and indecision . there have be a lot of talk about whether the Bill will afford special protection for peatland on site of special scientific interest , but I have look at the detail and have concern that , rather than lead to well protection for peatland area , the Bill do the opposite . I will start my contribution by explain why that be such a huge issue . take Walshaw moor , which border my constituency , just next to the Worth valley in my beautiful part of West Yorkshire . most importantly , it be an irreplaceable blanket bog peatland and carry protect status . it be a site of heavily protect bird specie and ground - nest bird . recently , it have become the propose site for what would be England ' s large onshore wind farm . I be firmly opposed to that development . the disruption that a new wind farm would cause , through the construction of 65 turbine — each tall than Blackpool tower — would be devaste to the blanket bog peatland . in fact , peat bog across the UK store many time more carbon than our forest . disturb that peatland by construct a wind farm on top of it could release many tonne of carbon back into the atmosphere , directly contradict the aim of the whole development — namely , to reduce carbon emission . it be simply nonsensical to use Walshaw moor when the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds have show that the Government could achieve their target for wind power without build on a single acre of protect peatland . let I come to the substance of the Bill as it relate to that development . the introduction of environmental development plan seem like a good idea : why shouldn ' t developer pay some form of compensation for the environmental damage that their development cause ? as be always the case , however , thing begin to unravel when we delve into the detail . what this change effectively amount to be a mercenary approach to environmental protection that give developer a much free hand to negotiate their commitment . indeed , local planning authority will be give a much free hand to take a loose approach in ensure that developer do their fair bit for any environmental mitigation measure , particularly on protect site , with the emphasis on a financial contribution . funding for restoration , either on site or indeed mitigate elsewhere , do not undo the damage cause by the development — be it to asset of scientific , natural or cultural value . in the case of a protect peatland such as Walshaw moor , that be exactly why the current propose development be completely the wrong approach . the bog themselves take millennia to reform , and sphagnum moss break down so slowly — by just 1 mm a year — to form peat . that be why the removal of the moratorium on onshore wind farm , which will allow more protect peatland to be build on , be the wrong approach from the Government . I can not stress that enough . the Bill move we from a dynamic in which we proactively protect what we value to one in which we barter what we can price up and pretend that value and price be the same . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . many aspect of the Bill will affect Scotland and make thing much more difficult for local resident to oppose certain type of application , include those in my constituency who be fight hard against a 94 km pylon route and battery storage plant . for I , democratic accountability should be at the heart of the planning process , but we seem to be move towards a planning system that China would be proud of . do he agree ? I absolutely agree . it be why the Government should be honest with the public that , far from strengthen environmental protection , the Bill create a direct avenue for developer to pay to do environmental damage and get around otherwise more stringent protection law . the hon . Gentleman be here in the last Parliament . do he remember that , in their attempt to undo the problem of nutrient neutrality , the previous Government seek to disapply the habitat regulation entirely ? be that the approach that he would prefer we take ? the Minister get to the nub of the issue in that the nutrient neutrality issue cause an absolute stagnation in housing development . indeed , the Government want to give Natural England even more power , which will lead not only to increase stagnation in development but to frustration for those who want development to take place . many member from across the House have refer to the £ 100 million bat tunnel and the development of hs2 . Natural England raise that issue , yet the Government want to give that very organisation even more power , which will lead to increase stagnation in development . the Government may bring forward a Bill to create an avenue for more development , but this Bill will not achieve that give the environmental protection measure . in the light of the Government ' s removal of the moratorium on onshore wind farm development , couple with the provision in the Bill , I fear for our protect peatland , not only in the beautiful upland of West Yorkshire but right across the county . secondly , I fear that the Bill will not create the speedy planning system that the Government hope it will . by place the design and formulation of environmental development plan in the hand of Natural England , the Government have cede much of their control over they . as a single - issue public body , Natural England operate with a very different interpretation of " reasonable mitigation " than the rest of the public when it come to preserve nature — I have already refer to the £ 100 million HS2bat tunnel . as developer , Natural England and environmental campaigner barter over the detail of environmental development plan and lodge legal challenge against they , how will the Secretary of State speed up our planning system , as she be force to sit on the sideline of those negotiation and watch Natural England take a lead ? she have create a Bill that hand more power to Natural England , not less , and remove her ability to ensure that infrastructure can be deliver at speed . the Government must be honest and up front about what they value . finally , I would like to raise another issue in the Bill which , in my view , move from naivety to the realm of malice . compulsory purchase order be highly controversial at the good of time , but in another blow to our rural community the Government have decide that landowner should not be pay the value of their land in full . I have an essay in front of I , in which it be argue that when the Government pay for new infrastructure , new road or new development in order to unlock new housing , the landowner " have only to sit still and watch complacently his property multiplying in value , sometimes manifold , without either effort or contribution on his part . " the argument be that the landowner should not get that profit with no effort . that be not from Trotsky ; that be from Winston Churchill — Order . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be not fair at all for the state , be it national Government or our local authority , to step in and not pay a landowner the market value they deserve . it be absolutely outrageous that this Government be introduce legislation , and change section 12 of the Land Compensation Act 1961 on that basis . I do not think that that will create any efficiency within the planning system , and neither — dare I say it ? — will it create any well mean of money be spend by local authority to deliver public service . we have see with HS2 an example of planning authority be take over in a way that be not the traditional compulsory purchase process . HS2 have be allow to take over property , and not pay market value or even take possession . People be still wait for compensation — their home devastate , lose everything because of hs2 ' s ability to take over . let I get to the point — I know time be short , Madam Deputy Speaker . this Government ' s approach in the Bill will not deliver planning do at speed , and it will not give the environmental protection that the Government be indicate to the wide public . it be not a good Bill . rise — with an immediate four - minute time limit , I call Mike Reader . the Bill represent the most substantial reform to our planning system in a generation , and one that be critical to my constituent back home in Northampton South . for too long our planning system have function as a brake on growth , rather than an accelerator , and when the public think about plan , they picture an antiquated , costly and labyrinthine system . while many member of the House be probably glue to their tv screen last May , when a soggy Prime Minister stand in front of no . 10 , I be at the UK ' s Real Estate Investment and Infrastructure Forum discuss this very topic . one stat stick in my head : only 17 % of people believe that the planning system work in their favour . it be clear that reform be need . the Bill introduce vital change to our planning framework , include improvement to how we deliver nationally significant infrastructure project , reform to compulsory purchase order , and measure to boost local planning . I wish to respond to the Bill through the lens of how it benefit strategic regional placemaking , and how it could massively improve the delivery of major infrastructure . the introduction of spatial development strategy , and the Bill ' s approach to strategic planning , be significant step forward . combine with the forthcoming english devolution Bill , that will put more power , not less , into the hand of local people . for too long our planning system have lack the regional co - ordination need to deliver home and infrastructure at scale . in my view , those reform will help to ensure that local authority work together effectively across boundary and across political party . some member of the House will know that I work in construction before I be elect , and for I a real frustration have be the lack of pace in deliver major programme in the UK . locally I see first hand the delay that the development consent order process face . just down the road from I , the A14 Huntingdon to Cambridge bypass be a real success story when it be finally deliver — it be deliver early and on budget — but it take three attempt to get through the DCO process . that mean year of congestion and pollution for local resident , and a direct , negative impact on the logistic and manufacturing business that I represent . more recently , my experience work with team on the low Thames crossing , the A303 Stonehenge bypass , Heathrow and new nuclear , have show I just how antiquated and cumbersome our process have become . I therefore welcome the step take in the Bill to improve consent process , speed up decision making , and reduce the risk of erroneous judicial review for major programme , as be highlight in the Banner review . however , I think the Government could go far , and I wonder whether the Minister would consider , in this Bill or in future legislation , reform the outdated requirement for pre - submission consultation in the Planning Act 2008 . I be hugely supportive of the Bill ' s direction , but we must all recognise that legislation alone can not fix this problem . to pick up on a comment from my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , we must look at the Building Safety Regulator and make sure that that do not become a new bottleneck . recent datum reveal a concern backlog , show that only two high - risk scheme have be approve out of 130 application since the new gateway process begin in October 2023 . the decision process be now take month , not the eight to 12 week that we be expect from the regulator . finally , I have concern about bottleneck , and about part 3 of the Bill and the environmental delivery plan and nature restoration fund . in principle that solution be practical and will unlock delivery , but I ask the Minister whether Natural England will be give the resource and funding it need to ensure that it do not become a new bottleneck in the planning system . overall I fully support the Bill , and look forward to its progressing through the House . the Bill be about speed up planning process , judicial review and the development of critical infrastructure . although some element of the Bill be positive , other risk undermine the long - term success of any development . the Bill give the Secretary of State power to decide the consent route for individual project , bypass local input and oversight . that be combine with the overall reduction in local democratic control by transfer significant power from local councillor to plan officer . currently , plan committee be the place where elect official can reflect local concern and represent their community in decision making . by shift more power to unelected officer , we risk alienate the public and far erode trust in local democracy . that be especially important give the shift towards create large unitary authority . we see that already in Somerset , where my constituent have see Sedgemoor district council , a small but effective planning authority , replace by a large but less effective unitary council . that may be connect with the fact that Somerset be run by the Liberal Democrats . if local decision making become more detached , how can we be sure that development will reflect the need and desire of the people who will live with they ? do the hon . Gentleman recall that when the conservative leader of the district council endorse the unitary council , a poll be take of the people of Somerset and they vote against it , but the Conservatives push it through ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , but the Liberal Democrats have be responsible since 2022 for the mess that have become Somerset . I be in favour in principle of build more house , but it must be do in a way that bring local community with we . we must ensure that new development be accompany by the right infrastructure — school , health centre , road , and a proper number of green space in between . when the Government announce their new housing target , it become immediately apparent that the bulk of the increase would be in rural area , so while Somerset as a whole have see an increase of 41 % in its housing target , the City of Bristol have see its target reduce by 11 % . why be that ? if it be relate to the high number of Labour councillor in Bristol , and the very small number of Labour councillor in Somerset , we should be tell . the Bill also propose a new nature restoration fund , which developer can pay into to offset environmental impact , rather than conduct individual environmental assessment . although I can see the logic of that move in some case , I have concern about the impact in Somerset . give the network of waterway across the Somerset level , the environmental impact of any individual site have the potential to spread to a much wide area than in much of the rest of the country . it be for such reason that local accountability be so important , and by shift the planning system to make it too top heavy , the Government risk unintended local consequence . on compulsory purchase power , the Government argue that streamline the process will allow housing and infrastructure project to progress more quickly . I be concern about the abuse of power , particularly in relation to agricultural land and green space . by simplify land acquisition and reduce protection for affected landowner , the Bill could pave the way for large - scale development that displace community , damage the environment and undermine agricultural interest . the Government have already do great damage to the farming community in Somerset with their family farm tax and the closure , without notice , of the sustainable farming incentive . the proposal seem like another Government scheme to impoverish our farmer . although the government ' s aim to address the housing crisis and accelerate infrastructure development be important , the Bill raise significant concern . it risk undermine local democracy , environmental protection and citizen ' ability to hold developer and the Government to account . if we be to build a sustainable future that be responsive to the need of our community , we must approach this Bill with caution . that be why I shall seek to improve it before we give it a Third reading . I strongly support the Bill because at its heart be a vision for get Britain build again — in the right way and for the right reason . that be critical to overcome many of the challenge we face as a country . it be central to the mission of change that the public have entrust we with , and it be a call to action that we must answer . the Bill set out a bold plan to modernise our planning system . as someone who work for decade with engineer , operational worker and planner , I can tell hon . member that it be long overdue . it seek to make the system more efficient and responsive to the demand of a 21st - century economy that be capable of support the ambition that the Government have set forth : solve the housing crisis by deliver 1 . 5 million new home ; tackle the cost of live by reduce bill and put more money back in people ' s pocket ; build a strong , grow economy ; make Britain a global leader in green energy and technology ; tackle the climate crisis , and create thousand of high - skilled , well - pay job . the housing crisis affect too many family across our country . for far too many , the dream of own or rent a home in the area where they live and work be slip far out of reach . I be ask about that at the New College husting by young adult who never think they would get a foot on the housing ladder . I be proud that we be do something about it . the Bill aim to tackle the challenge by streamline the planning process , cut delay and accelerate the delivery of new home . it introduce provision that will allow we to build where home be most need , while ensure that development be sustainable and in harmony with the environment . the Bill be about build not just new home , but affordable home . for year , waiting list for social housing have stretch beyond acceptable limit , with family wait year for a safe and affordable place to live . in my constituency , there be a mum with three child under five live in temporary accommodation because of section 21 . she have no kitchen to make food and nowhere to wash her child ' s clothe . bad of all , she have no hope leave . the Bill tackle that reality head - on and provide hope . on Friday night , I sleep out with 40 other individual at Donny Rovers to raise awareness of homelessness , and take the time to discuss the housing crisis . that same night , 3 , 350 child be homeless in Yorkshire and the Humber . that be just wrong . it be wrong in the 1990 , when I become homeless with my mum and sister , and it be absolutely unacceptable in the 2020s . the Bill will make a real difference to community across the UK . it give local council the tool they need to meet housing demand , while ensure that social housing be build in the right place and to the high standard . the Bill also recognise the need for infrastructure investment in drive growth and prosperity . from town to city , we must invest in transport , digital connectivity and energy system . the Bill lay the groundwork for large - scale infrastructure project , make it easy for local authority and developer to bring forward critical project , such as new road , renewable energy solution and expand public transport network . that be important for both rural and urban community . the Bill be about ensure that our infrastructure evolve alongside modern need , enable more efficient travel , support thrive business , and foster grow community . the legislation be a vital step forward in address some of the most pressing issue in our country . I urge all my colleague , on both side of the House , to support the Bill . let we unite in build a more prosperous , sustainable and secure future for the people we serve . no child should go to sleep tonight not know whether they will have a roof over their precious head tomorrow . we can solve that together . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s decision to introduce power to create a bill discount scheme to help household close to new electricity transmission infrastructure . however , to be clear , the scheme be nowhere near enough . it fall short as both a meaningful community benefit and a measure to address local opposition to new infrastructure project . the propose £ 250 annual discount for household within 500 metre of major transmission infrastructure equate to just 6 . 25 % off bill in rural Britain each year . it do not even match the cancellation of the £ 300 winter fuel allowance . even that modest £ 250 concession be limit to a decade . for family live beside tower pylon and substation , it be a poor trade - off for the last impact on their environment and quality of life . more fundamentally , why be rural community , which already pay the high energy price in the country , expect to accept such a meagre offer ? in our city and major town , such as Ashton - under - Lyne , household with access to main gas pay around 6p per kWh for their energy . in contrast , those in rural area , who be far more likely to be affect by these infrastructure development , pay 24p per kWh for their electricity . how be it right that the very community that live alongside renewable energy generation and face some of the high rate of fuel poverty be expect to pay four time as much as those on main gas ? renewable electricity be cheap to produce , yet rural household be still be charge four time the price of largely import carbon fuel main gas . where be the fairness in that ? if the Government be serious about ensure that community benefit from new infrastructure , they must do well than the miserable £ 250 a year . beyond energy cost , the Minister will know that transmission company , such as Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks , anticipate be require to build temporary housing for their worker . they have offer to build legacy housing , which would remain for the rural community , but the Bill do not cover that . affordable housing be one of the great challenge face rural Britain . include legacy housing in the Bill could make a real difference to affordable housing in those area . will the Minister explain why such a provision have be omit and commit to address the matter ? if the Government want community to accept new infrastructure , they must offer something meaningful in return : real , last benefit that acknowledge the burden place on those who live alongside the development . the energy bill discount scheme in its current form be a long way from that . I put on record my strong support for the Bill . I want to focus much of my contribution today on two aspect — nature recovery and electricity infrastructure . net zero and nature be two side of the same coin , and it would be a coin with no value if we have one without the other . the propose environmental delivery plan and the nature restoration fund be positive step that could transform nature ' s recovery . in Suffolk , we have see how that idea can work well . the Wildlife Trusts ' biodiversity net gain service have help to establish new nature reserve , such as Martlesham Wilds on the River Deben . however , more can be do to ensure that nature and development sit happily alongside each other . first , we must make it explicit that there be firm timeframe for the delivery of conservation measure set out in an EDP . secondly , we must have high expectation of developer . nature - rich open space , nature highway and solar panel on new build be incredibly simple thing to implement , but they will make a world of difference to our community and to nature . I turn to the electricity infrastructure aspect of the Bill and why they be so important in Suffolk Coastal , where we have four nationally significant energy infrastructure project plan with Sizewell C , National Grid , National Grid Ventures and ScottishPower Renewables . it be often say that up to 25 % of the UK ' s energy will be either make in or transport through my constituency . we be home to some of the most important biodiverse site in the UK , with 36 site of special scientific interest in the constituency , and more than 50 % of Suffolk Coastal be designate as a natural landscape . the hon . Lady be quite rightly outline how the environment should be protect , which I believe be part of the aim of the Bill . how do she defend to her constituent the fact that under Ministers ' proposal , her housing target will be uplift by 82 % ? I wonder if the hon . Gentleman roll out that line to every Member . I be actually talk about the sssi and the energy infrastructure , rather than housing . the site that I speak of — the sssi and the natural landscape — be not only recognise by but critical for this government if we be to deliver on our ambition to improve biodiversity . there have be much talk in the press of late about nimbyism , but I ask the Minister : be people nimbys if they ask why nature - rich marshland and the RSPB ' s nature reserve be pick as the good place for National Grid ' s energy infrastructure to make landfall ? be people nimbys if they question why the four project I have mention be be bring forward in isolation from each other and with no co - ordination ? be people nimbys if they fully support our country ' s push to net zero , but they ask if they can do more to protect nature ? if we listen more to some of those fair and valid question , we could do more to protect nature and progress with net zero . the previous Government totally vacate the space of leadership in our country ' s energy and biodiversity planning . that void be fill by energy developer , which be leave to take the lead and bring forward proposal that be totally unsuitable in our landscape , all because it be cheap than take project to brownfield site . we have be leave with a series of unco - ordinate , whack - a - mole project on the east coast of England . the much - welcome land use framework should be extend to create a land and sea use framework to allow for well leadership and co - ordination of energy infrastructure project . first and foremost , it be critical we ensure that energy developer that be work in the same area work with community to plan for the cumulative impact of these vast project . the community often have the answer to problem that the developer do not . for instance , farmer have tell I that it should be a requirement to bury network cable to a minimum of 1 . 8 metre on arable farming land . that be the minimum legal standard require for arable farmer to continue to use their land for farming . it seem common sense to make that a requirement . I do not have time today to go into detail on the need for community benefit to deliver for community who host infrastructure , but while I welcome the Government ' s recent announcement , which mean that community such as mine that may be set to host substation should benefit , we can be far more ambitious . we can and should expect more from private firm that profit so vastly from the great green energy revolution . I urge the Government to consider those aspect of the Bill . as a central Bedfordshire councillor , I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . there be much to welcome in this Bill , particularly its ambition to get nationally significant infrastructure build to support our country . while I disagree with the Government ' s allocation of housing target that favour building over our countryside , rather than the densification of our city , where building home would alleviate the bad of the acute housing crisis , I recognise the Government ' s mandate to build 1 . 5 million home and the need for ambitious planning reform . what be the Government do to ensure that the 1 . 6 million home with exist planning approval be build ? I see nothing in this Bill . Mid Bedfordshire have do more than its fair share in recent year to accommodate new housing , with the borough of central Bedfordshire and Bedford grow by 16 % and 18 % respectively over 10 year . we be not anti - development , but some development have change the character of our historical market town and quiet rural village forever . development be increase the flood risk in Maulden in my constituency , where compound up - slope development have exacerbate the impact of pluvial flooding . we have development that have not deliver long - promise infrastructure , such as in Wixams in my constituency — a development where shovel first go into the ground nearly two decade ago but resident be yet to see the delivery of a new gp surgery . it be because of such issue that community have become harden to the prospect of yet more building . this Government have a real opportunity , with thought and consideration , to create a planning system that people can have confidence in . instead , people have be dismiss simply as blocker . the pensioner who fear a flood every time it rain — blocker . the young parent who can not get to their gp because a surgery have not be build in their town — blocker . People with real , genuine concern whom we in this House be elect to stand up for be not blocker , and this Bill could do much more for they . my hon . friend make an excellent point about the " blocker " . these be people who live on floodplain , who have be wait year for a GP surgery and who have never have any of the key infrastructure that they ask for deliver . they can not have property build in certain place because of floodplain . that be not acknowledge in this Bill , which make no provision for those resident . absolutely . since Bedfordshire be flood in September , Ministers will know that I have be vocal about improve resilience , and the Government can do that in this Bill . new house mean nothing if resident find themselves ankle - deep in water in their living room , as they do across the country last year . I want the measure on nature recovery to be strengthen to include explicit plan to deliver nature - base solution to flooding . I want schedule 3 to the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 to be bring into force to ensure that community have the right protection from flood . I want this Bill to give internal drainage board more power to take over the maintenance of infrastructure to protect people from flooding . if it do not , local authority should have the enforcement power to ensure that sustainable drainage be maintain . I also want to see more robust measure in this Bill rule out development on floodplain , which go to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) . the Bill could make a real difference to our resilience to flooding , and I urge the Government not to miss this opportunity . despite protection in the NPPF , we still see development in functional floodplain . river be here before we ; they do not know and they do not care that we be here . as the Dutch have do successfully , we need to make room for our river . we must get out of their way , with strong protection against development in floodplain . I turn briefly to new town , which be provide for in this legislation through development corporation . it will be important to ensure that those corporation have the power to deliver real place and community , not just the cookie - cutter dormitory - on - trainline that developer might like to churn out for the high possible profit margin . new town should capture the essence and spirit of the community into which they be sow , and they need to be beautiful , as the Deputy Prime Minister reflect on in her opening remark . the Government should also address important question that they be currently dodge on how these new town will interplay with wide local development strategy . I be disappointed not to see some of that detail iron out in this Bill . new town will result in a double whammy of housing development for some community , but we do not yet know exactly how damaging that might be . the Government be also yet to confirm whether the housing provide by new town will count towards a five - year land supply , mean that our community could be force to take far more housing than they need , without the right infrastructure , unless this Bill be strengthen . this Government talk about be on the side of the builder , not the blocker , but without improvement , I be afraid that the Bill be almost guarantee to create a new generation of so - call blocker . home be need so that young people who aspire to own their own home can do so . Most of the blocker , as this Government like to call they , be not stand in the way of progress : they be stand up for their community against bad development . I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Minister for Housing and Planning , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , on bring this Bill before the House , not least because I really believe it be potentially the most important Bill to be bring forward in this Parliament . as a country , we have not be build enough home or infrastructure , and our planning system do not deliver for nature . this be about more than just home , infrastructure and nature : this be one of the root cause of our fall productivity . it have be undermine growth and job . however , this be also about the home and the roof over people ' s head : it be fundamentally about people . my parent grow up in council housing . my grandparent spend most of their life live in council housing — in fact , my nan and grandad on my dad ' s side be low - wage cleaner , with my nan work into her 70 and live in a council flat in Battersea for the good part of 50 year . that council flat offer my grandparent the foundation to be able to bring up my dad — the same be true on my mum ' s side — and , later on , to provide security and a well life for I and my sister . too many people in low - wage job , wherever they be in the country , can no long afford to buy or rent a home . that be fundamentally what this Bill be about . to say that we would not start from here be an understatement . in 2010 , the then Housing Minister boldly claim that the Conservative Government would radically improve housing affordability . in my constituency , affordability have massively decrease ; when the previous Government come to power , the median house price to earning ratio be 6 . 8 , but it be 8 . 8 by the end of that Government . George Osborne promise a major change in how we build infrastructure in this country . what he fail to mention be that the average consent time for nationally significant infrastructure project would nearly double . in my constituency , we have hundred of acre of land that be perfect for new nuclear power to be build . as a country , we have not complete a nuclear power station in over 30 year , and part of the reason for that be the state of our planning system . do my hon . friend agree that by make the change in this Bill , we will be able to unlock vital national infrastructure such as new nuclear ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention — it be no surprise that he be raise the issue of nuclear , for which he be a doughty champion in this Chamber . I very much agree with he about the need to build new nuclear , and I recognise the previous Government ' s failure to do so . fundamentally , this Bill be about build more home , build infrastructure and protect nature . my constituency of Basingstoke be a grow town — no change there . we have be a grow town for many year , since the 1960 , as a London overspill town . we have grow significantly , but I want this Bill to bring about a different approach : one that build the home that be so desperately need , but also ensure that they be more affordable , build the necessary infrastructure alongside they , and protect nature . the previous Government do none of those thing . I will mention a few measure in the Bill that I particularly welcome . first , the commitment to cut the timeline for nationally significant infrastructure project by 50 % be incredibly welcome — internationally , this country have become a laugh stock when it come to our ability to deliver significant infrastructure . the measure to overhaul connection to the grid for the electricity network be also incredibly welcome ; in a poll by Cornwall Insight , 75 % of those involve in clean power say that the grid connection issue be the big barrier to we deliver on our clean power ambition . the Bill also streamline and improve our process for transport infrastructure , as well as improve the roll - out of electric vehicle charger , a technology that Conservative Members now apparently oppose . I really welcome the change to planning fee — not just the change in this Bill , but those announce previously by the Government . one of the key reason why development have be gum up in the planning system be the lack of capacity within that system to deliver on they . the Bill should restore the role of the planner , not just as a tick - box exercise but to genuinely plan the place in which people live . as someone who be a political adviser to the Labour Opposition between 2010 and 2015 , I also highly endorse the proposal on development corporation and compulsory purchase . contrary to what have be say by Conservative Members , CPO reform be essential to deliver the housing that we need . as my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) highlight , it be back by Winston Churchill , who recognise that hope value do not belong to the landowner but be the result of Government investment in infrastructure . that be also recognise by know left winger such as Adam Smith . to go back to where I start , this Bill be fundamentally about deliver affordable home for people who badly need they , wherever they live . I want to be able to look my constituent in the eye and say that they be go to have access to an affordable home , just like my grandparent do so many year ago . first , I wholly respect the intention behind the Bill ; it be a serious attempt to solve a serious problem . I also recognise that what be happen under the Conservatives do not work , and never could have work even if we have give it 1 , 000 year . all it achieve be to fuel house price inflation , which have now create a destructive division into a nation of have and have - not . but I judge this new Planning and Infrastructure Bill through the lens of my own constituency — will it work for Horsham ? will it deliver affordable home in the right place and with the right environmental standard ? I think the answer be no . the main reason be that the Bill be base on the same mistaken premise as the previous system . the problem lie with how housing target be work out — not the national target , which get all the publicity , but local target . why be target so hard to meet ? the reason be that the Conservatives invent a catastrophically bad formula for calculate housing need , which be call the standard method . it measure the ratio of local house price to local wage , and the big the gap , the high the target go . the idea be that community just keep build house until the price come down . the only problem be that it do not work . it turn out that in Horsham — as in many place — the average price of a new house be high than the price of the exist stock , so the more we build , the bad the ratio get and the high the target go . that be the exact opposite of what the theory say should happen . unfortunately , this new Labour Bill take the same flawed Tory standard method and pour rocket fuel over it . target control planning permission , but that be not the same thing as actual house ; Horsham already have 13 , 500 unbuilt permission , include the emerge local plan . that total could double under Labour ' s new target . do that mean that we be actually go to build ten of thousand more home ? no , it do not . we could cover every inch of Horsham district in permission , but it be not the lack of permission that be hold back the market . house do not get build fast , because developer can not sell they any fast . some 80 % of what we build today be aim at the top 20 % of the market — all of this be describe very well in Sir Oliver Letwin ' s analysis back in 2017 . the housing market do not behave as one market ; it be like six parallel market , and the house we be build be largely serve the top two . I be desperate to build more affordable home in Horsham , but clog up the system with unbuildable permission be not the way to do it . the good way to build more home be to build more consent . I say that I would judge this legislation on whether it would work for Horsham , and the answer be that it will not . imagine an english village , if you still can — old house around a village green , with a little school , a pub or two , a post office , a row of shop , and an ancient church with a creak gate and some crooked headstone with fading bouquet shade by ancient oak . it may be a place where old maid hike to Holy Communion through the mist of the autumn morning . that sort of village be disappear . anyone who visit now will find the pub shut for want of drinker , the shop empty , and the vicar go — only the fading bouquet remain . there be no doctor ' s surgery and no bus route . it have isolate , elderly resident ; not a child in sight , as if the Pied Piper have be to visit , and age parent with none of their family nearby to help . like so many problem in this country , housing lie at the centre . the house in this sort of village be occupy by commuter with big car lurk in the driveway , or by retire folk whose child have long since move away . for the lowest - pay people , housing be more expensive in the countryside than in every urban area except London , with the cheap housing cost nine time the average income of the lowest - pay quartile . therefore , as the Government construct 1 . 5 million house , let we think long and hard about where we will put they . this Bill , together with the change that the Government have make to the national planning policy framework , will do much to loosen restriction on house building . the designation of land as grey belt be good for those in suburban green belt , but more can be do to earmark land for housing deep in the countryside . we ought to encourage more house building at small scale on the edge of village . for hundred of year , that be the model of expansion across all of England . it have produce our prettiest village , where progressively new building radiate outward from a historical core . that be the sort of development that preserve the character of a village . it be the most popular form of development in the countryside , and the campaign to protect Rural England have put its name to a call for small - scale affordable housing on the edge of village . we already have place set aside on the periphery of town and village across the country for deliver such community - scale housing . they be call small rural exception site . currently , they allow affordable housing to be grant for local development on small site not usually grant planning permission . although those be intend to promote the construction of affordable home , most of the plot be undeveloped . minor change to the national planning guidance be need to allow for proper development . that will help we to get a lot more use out of such site , spur reasonably sized considerate development and end the pattern of relocation that cause family tie to fragment . construction will energise a village ' s economy , give work to local firm that be well place to deliver housing quickly and efficiently . this government can regenerate rural England . this be surely our generation ' s chance , so let we grasp it . first , as I think the whole House have suggest in the speech we have hear , our country do need more home , particularly for young people . the most obvious stake that a young person can have in society be ownership of their own property that they live in with their family , but it be important that Government get their approach right . there be much to commend in the Government ' s Bill , but there be also a few point I would like the Minister to focus on . first , the rural - urban divide have become apparent . in my constituency , Bromsgrove and the village be 89 % green - belt . it be to the south of Birmingham and in the north of Worcestershire . in many way , it be a rural idyll , yet Bromsgrove be see the housing target set by Government increase by 85 % at a time when adjacent Birmingham ' s housing target be decrease by more than 20 % . my hon . friend be make an excellent point , because the same thing be true in London . we have see London housing target decline for the Mayor of London , who have not meet any of his housing target , and all those extra housing number have be force on to the outer county surround London . I be not sure that be fair or will produce the housing that people need . my hon . friend make a great point . in fact , she lead I to a point I want to stress to the Minister , which be about intensive urban densification . our country face a real opportunity if we focus on increase the number of property , particularly in large urban area , include London and Birmingham . it be also a great opportunity to regenerate some of the large town across many of our constituency . my hon . friend be make an interesting and powerful point . as a fellow west midland MP , I see that opportunity in my constituency . do he agree that if we can genuinely regenerate our high street and our town centre , that be the way to revitalise they ? it take the pressure off the peripheral area and protect we against be subsume into the city and urban area . I agree wholeheartedly with my right hon . friend . she make an important and pertinent point . if we get urban densification right , it be a catalyst for the economic and social renewal of town centre , which be desperately need . rise — I will make a little progress , and then I will give way . link to urban densification be a pertinent importance to focus on the quality and aesthetic of the development that be take place . I have long be a fervent advocate for design code and the role that locally lead placemake principle can play in determine the quality of an area and its attractiveness for future inward investment . I believe instinctively that resident across the country be not nimby , but I fear that successive government , include the previous Conservative one and the Labour one before that , have allow mediocrity to reign . there be a lack of local distinctiveness in development , which cause an entrenched perception of nimbyism run throughout the country . I implore the Government to consider reinstate the Office for Place , which be disband back in July , and to think about the importance of those aesthetically - base placemake principle and the role they can play in promote the positive impact of development . link to that , we have an acute need and opportunity to promote small , more artisanal developer , particularly those focus on develop the vocational skill need to generate the incoming pipeline of talent to support the house building industry . I will make a couple of point that relate to my constituency , but they probably apply to many other across the country . one be on the protection of the green belt . green belt be a technical designation , but to the public at large , it be often consider to be lush open field and meadow . my constituency have this large buffer between Bromsgrove and Birmingham . it be not the case that resident of Bromsgrove be nimby — I do not believe they be — but they do not want the identity of Bromsgrove to be erode and , by virtue of that , it to become some kind of extension of Birmingham . for I , and for many of my constituent , that word " identity " underpin the fundamental we should be talk about . it be about sense of place and a lifestyle that people identify with . when I think about constituent from my area , they have probably grow up in Birmingham and move into north Worcestershire . in many case , they have do that because there be an aspirational element to move into the countryside , and they want to benefit from the countryside that Worcestershire offer , while be in close proximity to Birmingham and all the service it offer . I will wrap up my comment with four quick point that I would like the Government to focus on . they should consider intensive urban densification and the positive role that can play in deliver housing where it be need and where young people live , and in regenerate town centre undergo a lot of change . it strike I that the hon . Member be speak a lot about build where young people live . one thing that concern I as a fellow rural MP be that young people be increasingly force out of our rural community . do he not recognise that we need to look at intelligent , targeted , moderate house building within those community to preserve they for the future and preserve their demographic future ? the hon . Member make a very good point , with which I do not disagree . we have to strike a well balance — that be the point I be make . that lead I to my second point , which be around infrastructure . Bromsgrove have suffer from a lot of development in recent year , and it have not have the infrastructure to go with it . if we want to strike the right balance and enable young people to stay in the community where they grow up , particularly rural one , we need to have the housing there , but we also need to recognise that rural area can not do all the heavy lifting . for 14 long year , growth in the United Kingdom stagnate with house that be not build , road that be not construct , train line promise and not deliver , energy and digital infrastructure not fit for current demand and a plod planning system that have not keep pace with the need of local community . I welcome this Bill , as we can now see a pathway to a country where every family can access affordable housing , where business thrive with top - tier digital connectivity , and where transport network support growth , rather than hinder it . the introduction of a national scheme of administration will empower local planning officer to decide application more quickly to support local community and business , but at the same time , it be critical that the democratic process remain strong and that the voice of resident and local councillor be hear , if costly delay and appeal be to be avoid . I very much welcome the reassurance give by my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister on that point early today . in Scotland , unfortunately , we have all too often have a different story , with local , democratically make planning decision routinely overturn by the Scottish Government reporter , leave community such as East Whitburn and Bathgate feel ignore , with development earmark in area rich with flora and fauna and where local road infrastructure be already creak at the seam . another long - stand issue be the shortage of planning officer , with three out of 10 planning department short - staff and a national shortage of about 2 , 200 planner . this be a problem that both the SNP and Tory government have fail to tackle ; indeed , they have exacerbate it through the hollowing out of local government . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to ensure that local authority have the skilled planning officer we need , with the right level of trust and empowerment to decide application more quickly . however , we must also consider the severe skill shortage across several sector over which both Tory and SNP Governments have preside , from plan to construction . we can not deliver physical and digital infrastructure without the people to produce it . on Friday I visit Sibbald Training in Blackridge , in my constituency , which specialise in construction and plant course . it be clear from our discussion that there be huge concern in the business community about the possibility that if the skill shortage be not address , contract will be lose , job will be lose , and opportunity for young people will go elsewhere . I be therefore delighted to hear yesterday that this Government will train up to 60 , 000 more construction worker , give industry certainty that we be commit to invest in construction and infrastructure . our community and industry have long wait for a Government who will take the challenge of energy , planning and development seriously . the Bill be ambitious in its goal , but , more than that , it be ambitious for community and business across the United Kingdom , and it will get Britain build again . my constituent and I know how lucky we be to live in such a beautiful part of the United Kingdom . we need to see growth so that our young people can stay in their local community , buy home in the area in which they have grow up , and continue to contribute to the local economy and keep Chichester thrive for generation to come ; but the reality be that the planning system in my little patch of the country be not fit for purpose . with the district council ' s footprint cover 70 % of national park and 5 % of national landscape , the ambitious total for housing allocation in our area be confine to just 25 % of the available land in a ribbon that be cause coastal squeeze . this have lead to high - density development build without adequate infrastructure , leave my resident face daily challenge navigate the horrendous congestion on the A27 , find local school place for their child , or simply obtain an appointment with a gp . the current system have leave my community frustrate , my local business unable to grow , and local council tie up in red tape , unable to plan . housing developer have a duty to create community , not just building , but the very nature of the current planning system mean that developer be put forward proposal that look only at the patch that they be try to develop rather than the wide picture surround it , and the councillor who be elect to represent their area be fight with their hand tie behind their back . in both Chichester and Arun district council , an application may be refuse by the plan committee — perhaps owe to flood risk , loss of grade 1 agricultural land or inadequate infrastructure in the area — only for that to be overturn at appeal , which be a costly , time - consume process , take planner out of the department where they be try to plan . the previous administration in Chichester district council allow the local plan to expire , which leave developer ride roughshod over area on the Manhood peninsula , a low - lie coastal plain that be susceptible to extreme flooding which seem to be get bad and bad . the new administration in 2023 focus on produce a robust local plan , which have now be through inspection — to the relief of community across Chichester — and protect area such as the Manhood peninsula while prioritise brownfield development , which all of we , on both side of the House , agree should be the priority for planning . however , the Government ' s ambitious new housing target could force the council back to square one and put all the power back into the hand of developer , because we be be ask to increase our housing target by nearly 100 % . we do not have a planning crisis ; we have a building crisis . developer be land - banking consent rather than get on with deliver the home that we need , because demand drive up price . since 2007 , more than 1 . 4 million home give fully consent permission have not be build . the Bill do not tackle the workforce issue or the supply chain issue , and it also do not acknowledge that water company , which be responsible for vital infrastructure to ensure that that their reliance on storm overflow can reduce over time , be not consult over individual planning application because they be not statutory consultee . as the Minister know , I have call for such consultation in other debate . finally , there be no target for social home in the Bill . register provider in Chichester be currently refuse to take on the social home on small mixed - use site , favour the large development and prioritise upgrade their exist housing stock , which be put the viability of social home in my area at serious risk — and they be home that we be desperately cry out for . I spend the last seven year of my career work in the social housing sector , so I should like to think that I have some understanding of the scale of the housing challenge , the mistake make by previous administration , and why now be the time to be bold . we need this plan Bill to be bold , because at present we be witness a housing crisis in three act . first , accord to the late available figure , private renter across the country spend nearly a third of their household income on housing cost . private renter in all income quintile — compare with people live in home of any other tenure — spend the high proportion of their household income on rent , and we know that the problem be especially acute in our city and in the south of England . the affordability challenge be not just a problem for the individual , but a problem for society . money that would otherwise be spend in the everyday economy be go to private landlord . that be link with the second point . the vast majority of private renter aspire to home ownership , but as private rent increase and house price stay stubbornly high , the dream of home ownership look ever more distant for those who be not lucky enough to rely on the bank of mum and dad . in my constituency the median house price of £ 435 , 000 be nearly 11 time the median income of £ 40 , 000 . thirdly , there be the crisis in social housing . since the right to buy take effect in 1981 , we have see a net loss of social home in almost every year . that bring I to an early exchange between my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) and the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) . this problem be at its bad at the time of the coalition Government . as my hon . Friend say , there be a dramatic cut in the grant for social and affordable housing under that Government , and there be a double whammy because during the same Parliament , the conservative Prime Minister increase the discount for help to buy . let I say to the Liberal Democrats that their former leader make a video apologise for university fee , and they may want to consider one apologise for their record on social housing . to meet this crisis , we need to use all the lever at our disposal to build the home and community that the country need . in the time that I have leave , I want to focus briefly on two point . the first concern clause 46 — which have attract some interest during the debate — and the provision to streamline planning decision on small site . it be vital that local accountability remain in the planning system , and that be protect through the need to have local plan in every community , all of which will require democratic consent . however , it be equally important that we speed thing up so that we do not lose month or year endlessly discuss small site that have already be debate and allocate in a local plan . aspiring homeowner , hard - up renter and those in urgent need of social housing do not have time for that . I be very invest in clause 91 , which introduce long - overdue change to the compulsory purchase order process and the removal of hope value . for far too long the loser in our system have be the prospective homeowner , the private renter and the social housing resident , while the winner have be the landowner . as it stand , many local authority have to pay unrealistic premium for land base on an estimate of its potential value , or hope value , which have too often make it unviable for council to build much - need social housing and infrastructure . that have to change , and the Bill will ensure that it do . as we have hear in the House today , there be member who want to find new and creative way to argue against the need for new housing , but that have fail . the status quo have fail we . if we be serious about tackle the housing crisis , we need serious reform . the Bill will deliver it , and can be the catalyst for change . I refer hon . member to my entry in the register of interest . at his first Prime Minister ' s Question Time in July last year , I ask the Prime Minister to reassure my constituent that they would have a meaningful say over the new development in the green belt in their area . he say that the Government " will work with community " — but this Bill could not be far from that promise . we be see housing target go through the roof in rural area , as green - belt protection be remove . in my local council of East Herts and Broxbourne , the target be go up by more than 20 % and within Broxbourne district specifically they be almost double . the loss of protection for unrestricted sprawl around the village I represent be extremely worrying for my constituent who live in those village of Brickendon , Hertford Heath , Great Amwell , Stanstead Abbotts and St Margarets , as their unique character and historical charm could be lose forever . at the same time , target be go down in London , where there be the infrastructure to cope . the plan do not add up . there be something in this Bill on which I can agree with the government : the explanatory note state that limited infrastructure delivery be a real cost on the life of work people . I completely agree . it be far too common for new housing to be build without the increase in public service capacity to match . my hon . friend make an excellent point on key infrastructure . not only be we wait for GP surgery in my constituency , but we need a sewerage upgrade across my patch . we can not even have new home put in , because they can not be attach to the sewerage system in its exist state . his point be valid : until infrastructure be put in place we can not put home in these new area . my hon . friend make an excellent point , and she be right that infrastructure must come first . I will come on later in my speech to the fact that there be nothing in this Bill to make developer put that infrastructure in first . in Broxbourne , we have already have more than our fair share of development . thousand of new home have be build in the past few year , but new or expanded infrastructure to take the strain off our already overstretch service be nowhere to be see , and it be have a serious impact on my constituent . a Health Minister have admit to I that patient try to see their local gp in my constituency be more likely than the national average to wait two week . driver be force to sit in traffic as road clog up , and I hear time and again that parent be unable to get their child into the local school that they want . the Bill before we seek to make it easy to build major infrastructure . of course I support building road , airport and runway more quickly , but what the Government define as major infrastructure be way too narrow . major infrastructure , to my constituent , be whether they can get a GP appointment or a school place . I see no mention of that in this Bill . there be nothing about provide new power for local council to ensure that that kind of infrastructure be in place before new housing be build . I have to fight extremely hard to get the nhs round the table to say that we desperately need a new surgery to meet the demand from exist resident , but it would not listen to I — and now the Government be force we to build even more house . in December , the Housing Minister say he be " consider what more we can do to ensure that we get infrastructure for development up front " . — [ Official Report , 12 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 1068 . ] but where be that within the Bill ? that be how to get exist resident on side and get people behind the new development that we desperately need in the right location . local councillor be in fact have more of their power over and responsibility for planning take away , which dilute local accountability and remove the voice of resident in decide what be build in the local area . that be an attack on local democracy . the Minister should be take on developer , not local community and council . I have sit on a planning committee , and the reason the process be sometimes so long and — developer would argue — so onerous on the developer be that they try to build utter rubbish . some of the stuff they put forward be utterly disgraceful . I would not want to live on some of the development that they bring forward and try to get councillor to approve . of course we must have a robust process , because we need to focus more on urban design . simply make it easy for developer to get through the planning system be put way too much trust in developer to build appropriate community , with all the infrastructure that our resident need . do my hon . friend agree that with regard to good - quality design , not only society but particularly the Government in their relationship with developer have to shift their mindset away from see design as a cost to instead see it as an investment that will reap benefit in the form of well - quality placemake and well quality of life for resident ? I know my hon . friend be a passionate advocate for urban design , and he make an important point . of course we must invest in urban design , because it be the council — and mps through our casework — that pick up the piece . if a development be not plan correctly , with the right number of car space , for example , there be issue when people try to park their car . our inboxe get clog up with all of those issue and the council be put under extra pressure with antisocial behaviour and so on . we really have to think about plan the community , rather than just say , " oh , we will give in to the developer — they say it take too long , so we ' ll make it quick and just rely on they to create place that people want to live . " as I say , I have sit on a planning committee , and I have see development come forward that be utter rubbish . we need to change the mindset of developer , and we must ensure that we have good design . the Government be not seek to change that ; they be embrace it by commit to a target that can only be achieve by rush the construction of low - quality home with no plan for those who will live there . the Government need to focus more on the community that we be try to build within this country , rather than specific target and house building across the country . this Bill reveal that the Labour Government have their priority wrong . local people should have the large influence over where new housing development go and when it happen in their community , not Ministers in Whitehall . I be surprised to hear the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) trash hard - work local builder in his constituency and call the home that his constituent live in dreadful trashy house . before I come to this place — rise — I be not go to give way ; you have have your time . before I come to this place — [ interruption . ] order . I call Rachel Taylor . before I come to this place — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to seek your advice . I have just be cite as say something in my speech that I do not say . I be merely talk about developer and my time on the planning committee , when developer would come forward and propose utter rubbish . I do not say the house my resident live in be rubbish . the hon . Member have make his point . it be a matter of debate , but his point be now on the record . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — [ hon . member : " withdraw ! " ] Order . I have make my ruling clear . before I come to this place , I be a property solicitor , and I can not say how many time I have developer in my office , swear and curse at yet another of their project have be put on hold because of an arcane planning system . Bat tunnel be only the half of it . I will never forget the day a developer tell I that Warwickshire county council have ask he to build a pavement outside his new development but have then refuse to let he put up traffic light to enable the work because there be a vaccination centre a mile up the road . after month of legal wrangling , which delay the home buyer move in , the county council eventually give in , but not before waste everyone ' s time and resource . there be already half a million few young homeowner since 2010 , and million be stick in expensive , poor - quality and insecure rent housing . despite that , planning permission drop to their low number on record under the last government , because the planning system be outdate and no long fit for purpose . I want my constituency to be a place where young people feel they can put down root , whether in our town or our village , and I want to ensure that there be the necessary infrastructure for they and their young family to create a life in our town and village . I welcome this Bill to fix our broken planning system and get Britain build again . as a solicitor , on many occasion I see unacceptable delay in determine planning application , which cost developer money . there be insufficient resource to deal with complex legal agreement or to consult in a meaningful way about necessary infrastructure . all too often , developer then bypass the correct process , only to end up with whole estate be build without key approval , which have sit empty for more than 12 month because access on to the road have not yet be sort . this Bill will properly fund planning department , and I hope that that will extend to the associated legal work . it be rare that developer even go down the route of get new road adopt , because for they the delay that that cause be financial risk they can not take , but that lead to more and more resident pay freehold management charge , which new homeowner can ill afford . I be glad that the National Infrastructure Commission have welcome the provision in this Bill , call they a " bold and broad - range package of measure " . after year of the conservative party let the planning system crumble , a bold approach be exactly what be need . just last week , I meet those from National Grid in my constituency . they welcome the Bill and say that this sort of sensible approach could not come soon enough . of course , it be crucial for we to get the balance right . Most people I have speak to understand that if they want their kid to be able to afford a home and live nearby , we need to build more house . I agree with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors , which have say that the Bill " provide a necessary balance between the need to boost building development , whilst protect the natural world through a nature restoration fund , drive green initiative . " it be vital we get this balance right . every person should have access to an affordable home , and green and natural space they can use and enjoy . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I appreciate be able to make this point of order . I would like to seek your guidance on the speech from the hon . member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , in which she defend developer and also solicitor . do she have to declare her interest as a practise solicitor , for which privilege she be pay £ 7 , 500 this quarter ? far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I no long have a practise certificate as a solicitor , and I give up practise as soon as I come into this House . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order , and I thank the hon . Lady for put her clarification on the record . I speak as a former unitary authority councillor for over 17 year . in that time , I speak many time on behalf of the local community at planning committee meeting , so I understand the importance of include community in decision . shut they out of the process breed resentment about new development , and this be the chance to take advantage of local knowledge to make sure those development be of good quality . I be proud that the council administration I lead reverse the previous conservative change that give one councillor the power to block application hear by the planning committee , give local people back their voice . I be therefore dismay that this Government want to give the Secretary of State sweep power to enable planning decision to bypass planning committee , and I urge they to look elsewhere to speed up delivery . it be vital that infrastructure be provide ahead of development , and I would like to highlight a potentially more fruitful avenue for a Government who say that they want to tackle " blocker " . not only can organisation such as National Highways be slow to respond to planning consultation , on both individual application and strategic plan , but when they do respond , the answer can be a simple no . instead , we need all such body to see their role as one of work with local planning authority to overcome the barrier and be enabler of growth . Junctions 16 and 17 of the m5 in my constituency be good example of where joint working could deliver the infrastructure improvement we desperately need , for which resident in village such as Easter Compton be cry out . that could also unlock growth . on the subject of infrastructure , my constituency have great potential for national energy infrastructure , whether that be new small modular reactor at Oldbury or tidal lagoon . my hon . friend the Member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) refer to the community benefit available from propose transmission infrastructure , albeit he refer to its derisory level . however , I would like to see this benefit extend to other energy infrastructure . as a former council leader , I understand the pressure on budget . I know that , under the current fee regime , council tax payer be pay significant amount of money towards the planning determination process , rather than the cost fall on the applicant . I therefore welcome the provision in the Bill to allow local planning authority to set their own planning fee . however , I would highlight the fact that there be room to help local authority reduce cost . for example , local newspaper , with their dwindle circulation , be costly and ineffective route for publicising application , yet clause 84 only tweak what need to be publish in those newspaper . I urge the Government to consider other way to raise awareness , such as council consult local group . the hon . Member have mention local newspaper . that money be a lifeline to local paper , and many people cherish their local paper as a way of find out what be go on . I hear what she be say , but let we not play too fast and loose with the money use to keep that lifeline go in many community . if the hon . member would like his government to support the future of local newspaper in that way , I hope they will look again at how they be support council to fund local planning department . to conclude , I urge the Government to think again , tackle the real barrier to delivery and put local community at the heart of the planning process . like so much of the midland , Erewash as we know and understand it today be bear of the industrial revolution . Ilkeston be transform from a historic market town to a place of hard , serious industry , and Long Eaton be scarcely a village before the coming of the canal and the railway . while the economy have change , this Erewash of good job , thrive town centre and proper community be still very much in live memory . at the heart of the east midland — halfway between Derby and Nottingham — Erewash be now a place of immense potential . with this Bill , I believe we can unlock that potential , unleash prosperity , spur economic growth and help to deliver national renewal , create the job and build the new home that my constituent and this country need . in Ilkeston , the old Stanton ironwork be a british industrial giant , employ nearly 10 , 000 people . now , 20 year on from its closure , on the large brownfield site in Derbyshire , New Stanton Park rise from the rubble . every time I drive past , new work have be do on the park , and new job be already be create , but this restoration have take too long . the planning process , with the immense cost , time and insecurity involve , have a serious , direct and negative impact on business ' ability to grow . Erewash have not meet its housing target since they be introduce in 2011 — not once in the last 15 year . this problem be part of a decade - long national failure to build enough new home , which have result in a housing crisis name by some as the bad in the developed world . as a result , the cost of buy a home have rise exponentially , rent be ever increase and the average age of first - time buyer be rise consistently . from the peak , where homeowner represent more than 70 % of the population just over 20 year ago , home ownership have fall by nearly 10 % . most disturbingly for I , Erewash borough council have a social housing waiting list of more than 5 , 000 people , or about 2 , 400 household . this be a staggering failure of the state . recently , I have the pleasure of show my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury around 50 new social home build on a brownfield site in Long Eaton . while this site represent excellent work by my council colleague , it be not enough . fifty new social home be a droplet in the ocean when we have 2 , 000 family wait to move in . for too long , politician locally and nationally have clung to stopgap measure , try to treat the symptom but fall short of a cure . nobody be deny that people may not like it and that this be really difficult , but the solution be simple : we have to build more new home . for the young family want to settle down , the renter tired of have so much of their hard - earn income pay their landlord ' s mortgage , and the 1 . 3 million household — not people , but household — on social waiting list in England alone , we have a moral duty to build new home . this Bill be at the very heart of this Government ' s decade of national renewal . if we be go to make Britain a green energy superpower , we need to build the vital infrastructure that be require . if we want to take back our street , break down the barrier to opportunity and build a national health service fit for the future , we need to unlock economic growth , so the Government have the money to properly invest in and restore public service . if we be go to put money back in people ' s pocket , we need to make it cheap to buy a home , and if we be go to create the good job that people want and need , Britain need to be a more attractive place to invest , grow and do business . to do all of that , we need to make it cheap , fast and easy to build a well Britain . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will know that I always like to start by emphasise where there be common ground and agreement , so that we can start off on a positive foot . I do agree that there be a housing crisis . I do agree that we need to build more home . we need to tackle the outrageous inequality in the housing market and the fact that there be nearly 1 million empty home , as well as 1 . 5 million for which there be plan permission but that be , as yet , unbuilt . we need to build more home — the right home in the right place at the right price , though — and I be not sure the Bill go far enough to address those concern . there be more area of agreement . I agree we need to reform planning . I agree we need a strategic approach . I agree we need to tackle the issue of hope value , community benefit from energy infrastructure , and planning fee — so many area of agreement . [ interruption . ] I can see the Minister be smile . [ interruption . ] no , I be not go to stop there ; sorry ! however , there be a number of area of miss opportunity , as well as fairly deep concern . currently , the Bill have no content on a range of important planning aspect . it do not contain any measure to secure affordable , healthy home , or to ensure that the planning system be fully join up with our climate and nature obligation . there be not even a statement of a positive visionary purpose for the planning system , and it be so important to provide the framework for what we be do here . we need clarification that development should be sustainable , benefit future generation as well as meet today ' s need . we need join - up policy : a new climate and nature duty on all planning authority to ensure that all policy tackle our Climate Change Act 2008 and Environment Act 2021 obligation . planning be crucial for tackle the climate crisis and reduce the environmental impact of new development . we need solar panel on roof and high level of insulation . there be nothing here on zero - carbon heating or embody carbon . there be also nothing on climate adaptation . I find it quite extraordinary that in 160 page there be not a single mention of the word flood or flooding , yet they be crucial to planning and infrastructure . we need to ensure that the Bill plan for active and public transport . let we see a " no net new traffic growth " test apply to all development , so we incentivise the shift to active and public transport . the Bill should include a nature duty . it provide a great opportunity to specify wildlife - friendly design , swift brick — I have talk about they previously — hedgehog highway and green roof . let we have a new chapter of the building regulation specifically on biodiversity . I recognise that environmental delivery plan could be useful in some case , but I worry that they may be a bit too much of a blanket approach . what be suitable for newts be not necessarily suitable for all aspect of wildlife and landscape . I have a little concern that we be effectively outsource the environmental obligation of developer to Natural England , without require sufficient attention to be pay to those issue . for example , the removal of site - specific survey requirement mean we will effectively be shoot in the dark when we specify what remedy need to be take . we need to legally guarantee that nature benefit will significantly outweigh any harm . we need to follow the mitigation hierarchy , strengthen protection for irreplaceable habitat such as the ancient woodland and chalk stream that have be mention , and remove the viability test for the nature restoration levy . otherwise , there be a real risk that developer will altogether escape pay for the nature restoration that they should do . we need to ensure accessibility standard and affordability standard — order . I call Joe Powell . nothing symbolise the drift and decline of the past 14 year more than the appalling state of planning and infrastructure in Britain : a housing crisis that have force child to live in overcrowded and unsafe home ; an energy crisis that have leave we dangerously expose to shock in the global energy market ; and a litany of infrastructure failure . it be not just the reservoir or the £ 120 million spend on the tory bat tunnel for HS2 , but the promise 40 new hospital by 2030 — a claim now expose as fiction with fund not allocate , many scheme not new hospital , and a tiny fraction due to complete on time . I can see in my constituency the direct impact that that failure , especially on housing , have on my resident . I admire the commitment of the shadow Minister , who have just leave his place , to the spreadsheet that he have be quote from throughout the debate . he seem to have miss the line in the spreadsheet that state the number of time the previous Government hit their housing target — precisely zero . there be nearly 3 , 000 people on the waiting list for social housing in the Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , and more than 2 , 000 in temporary accommodation . behind those number be story of daily struggle , like Sansha and her five child who live next to Grenfell Tower . her son be in a wheelchair and await open - heart surgery for his life - limit condition . they live on the top floor , and the lift frequently break . there be no heating , no reliable hot water and just one work bathroom . they have be wait more than three year for a move to a suitable property . then there be Lacey , whose six - year - old daughter have autism — and have try to jump out of a window twice . despite repeat safeguarding warning , the family remain in overcrowded and unsafe housing . then there be another resident I meet recently who spend more than 15 year out of the borough with her child before move back . there be more than 164 , 000 child live in temporary accommodation in England , the high number on record . instead of tackle the root cause , as the Bill seek to do , we pour money into manage the problem . the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point about temporary accommodation and the lack of housing availability . but why have the housing target for London , which have some of the high level of unmet social housing accommodation need , not be raise to deal with overcrowding ? I thank the hon . Lady for that point . the housing target for London be 88 , 000 . she will know well that the previous target be never remotely close to be hit under the previous Government . with target not be hit , we be interested in net new dwelling : affordable and social housing for the people I be most concerned about in my constituency . that be what the Bill will help to achieve . I be delighted that we finally have a Government who have the ambition to tackle the problem . on energy , I be pleased that the Bill will deliver fast and more certain planning consent for critical infrastructure , include upgrade our electricity network and maximise new clean energy source . the Bill will move we on decisively from the era of the onshore wind ban , plummet investment , and reliance on Putin and his fossil fuel oligarch . if we be serious about speed up delivery , however , we must address the capacity crisis in planning department , so it be welcome that the Government have commit to 300 new planner . what assessment have be make of the total need for planner across the country to get to the level of approval we need to meet our housing target ? can the planning fee reform in the Bill support that recruitment through full cost recovery ? we know that planning reform must be match by the people and resource need to make it work . I thank my hon . friend for his speech and for highlight the gap that exist in local government . I be sure he will recognise that , as the Local Government Association and the National Housing Federation have say , only 80 % of local authority have the capacity at the moment — in fact , it could be far less . [ Official Report , 2 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) do he agree that that be a real concern ? I could not agree more . that be why the devolution of fee setting be so important . it should enable an improvement in the capacity of planning department and the training for councillor on plan committee to make those decision effectively . I also thank all the resident association in my constituency who put time and effort into engage in the planning system and who be passionate about make it work for our community . their role will continue in the local plan and in application that rise to the planning committee , contrary to some of the scaremongering we have hear in the debate . the Bill sit alongside other crucial housing measure that the Government be take , include the big investment in social and affordable housing in a generation , leasehold reform , strong protection for renter , a new decent home standard and the implementation of Awaab ' s law . if we be serious about tackle the housing crisis , this ambition must also be reflect in the comprehensive spending review — this be not just day - to - day spending , but long - term public investment . that be exactly why the Chancellor take the bold decision in the Budget to increase the capital available for investment and reverse more than a decade of under - investment and short - termism . I would therefore welcome any clarification from the Minister on the total investment in the CSR need to meet our housing target , in particular on the affordable and social component . advance the Bill alongside new investment in the CSR could be transformative . we owe it to the constituent I mention early — to Sansha , Lacey and the thousand of child trap in unsuitable and unsafe housing — to get this right . it will be a landmark legacy of this Labour Government to finally get Britain build again . I be go to try to get everybody in . if intervention be take , some people be go to lose out on be call to speak . please keep that in mind . the aspect of the Bill I would like to focus on be the nationally significant infrastructure project reform . this Labour Government claim that their reform will make " targeted and impactful intervention to the consent system , " but that will come as scant consolation to the local resident on the receive end of the project be foist upon they . have fight for my constituent against a solar NSIP , I know how difficult it will be to navigate for the average person , and the Government appear determined to make it even hard the Government be move the goalpost to reach their ideological aim , and it be my constituent who be pay the price without be hear . they be receive nothing in the way of direct compensation as a result — no firm commitment to cheap energy bill , with the Government only assess zonal pricing , and no firm commitment to ensure that community benefit fund appropriately compensate local community . this Labour Government have already force through six solar NSIPs since July , compare with just three under the previous Government . the large of the three approve by the Conservatives be 1 , 200 acre ; the small solar farm approve by this Government be 1 , 300 acre , while the large , so far , be 2 , 800 acre . the current threshold for solar development to qualify as an NSIP be only 50 MW , which have be the case since 2008 . while the Government have legislate to raise the exist solar threshold from 50 MW to 100 MW , it be still a laughably low bar . point 2 . 10 . 17 of national policy statement EN - 3 clearly state that " a solar farm require between 2 to 4 acre for each MW of output . " such a low threshold will potentially allow hundred of acre of good - quality farmland to be bring into scope . Cambridgeshire be see as a target - rich environment by the Government . we have already see the Sunnica energy farm approve in the east of the county , and now East Park solar farm have be propose in my constituency on an excessive scale — it be big than Gatwick airport , at 1 , 900 acre and span six mile . nearly 75 % of the site be grade as good and most versatile land . in answer to a write question about how many consent nationally significant infrastructure project use great than 50 % good and most versatile land . I be tell by the Energy Minister , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who be in his place , that " no nationally significant infrastructure project have be consent which will use great than 50 % good and most versatile agricultural land . " last week , when I challenge the Secretary of State on the same point , quote point 5 . 11 . 34 of the national policy statement — that he should " ensure that applicant do not site their scheme on the good and most versatile agricultural land without justification " — he suggest that " the decision maker will be look closely at the issue " — [ Official Report , 18 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 164 . ] but will they ? the Government have pledge to achieve a target . they have move the goalpost to make that target easy to achieve and stack the deck in their favour at the expense of local resident , suggest that achieve the goal " be go to require our NSIP system to be fire on all cylinder . " the Government will remove the requirement to consult category 3 people , who would be able to make a claim under the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 , while maintain the requirement for notification at the acceptance stage . the first that resident will know about land be take from they be after an application have already be accept . the illusion of statutory consultation appear to be nothing more than lip service . for all the question I have ask — write question , oral question — I have not once hear a response from the Government that the view of local people will be take into account nor explain how the highest - grade land will be protect from development . I note that in her opening speech , the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government say that the Government would be protect agricultural land , but give no detail on that . I would be interested to hear what the Government be go to do . it be particularly tell that the forthcoming solar road map will not break cover until after the Bill have progress . yet again , it appear that this Government will do anything to achieve their plan for change without any thought to the consequence of say change . the Bill require the national policy statement to be update every five year , but those provide policy guidance on energy infrastructure be last publish in January 2024 . although that should mean they will not be update again until 2029 , the Bill propose that Parliament can make change to the NPSs outside the rhythm of those update . give the clear desire of the Government to force through NSIPs wherever possible , my concern be that they be be give a window of opportunity to implement rolling tweak in order to manipulate the NSIP process to well suit their own agenda . I rise to speak about how the Bill will allow we to invest in our community , benefit every part of the country and not just London . I have spend my entire adult life in a no - growth economy where cost rise because we do not build enough . the rent we pay , our rail fare and our energy bill have all soar because we could not build the home , rail or wind farm we need — high cost cause by a planning system whose default answer be no . the Bill change that answer to yes . the Bill target constraint that have stop we from grow . price be information . where price be high , we can see that we desperately need more supply . rent as a share of income be up by 20 % since 2020 . our transport cost be 26 % high than in peer nation . when Putin invade Ukraine , we have the high electricity bill in the G7 . what do these price tell we ? not enough home , not enough rail , and not enough clean energy . infrastructure be be hold back by our broken planning system . our infrastructure project be among the most expensive and slow to build of high - income nation . the Bill lift the constraint and help get we building , but it can go far . the NIC state that the large increase to planning timetable be at pre - application stage , add over two year on average . it be delay critical infrastructure . I hope that the Minister will address this in his remark . we must also ensure that the benefit of the Bill be feel across our nation . my constituency be in the east midland , where transport spending be the low in the country , private rent be rise fast than anywhere else , and productivity be the low in England . that be why it be hard to get a good job . for too long , investment have flow to London and the south - east . that be because the benefit - cost ratio in the Green Book have a hardwired London bias . wage be high in London , so the estimate benefit of spending be also large in the capital . with more project build here in London , the logic become self - fulfilling . that London bias be why the gap between London and the rest of the UK be large than the gap between west and east Germany . the Treasury , to its credit , do understand the problem , but the tyranny of the benefit - cost ratio be sadly still with we . we must end this bias and build prosperity in the place that need it most . the opposition speak about level up but do nothing to deliver it . the Leeds tram , upgrade the line from Cardiff to Swansea , electrify the midland main line — all be reject by the last Government , who put London first and everywhere else last . they speak of level up , but as my dad like to say , talk be cheap . now be the time to stop talk and start build . that mean fix the planning system so that we can build the home , wind farm and , yes , pylon that we need . if we change our approach to infrastructure project , we can also build the road and rail we need outside of London , make it easy to transport good and for my constituent in Loughborough , Shepshed and the village to get around . I be pleased that the great majority of the Bill will not affect I or my constituent , but I will speak briefly to the area that do , begin with clause 9 to 13 on electricity network connection reform . I acknowledge that the first come , first serve debacle have serve the development and drawdown of these scheme very poorly , but I simply ask the Minister : when will the regime materially change such that properly consent , properly finance project , which be behind project that be not either of those thing , can get their connection approve ? in clause 14 on consent for generating station and overhead line , the amendment to the Electricity Act 1989 make it clear that consent to electricity infrastructure in Scotland be carry out by Scottish Ministers , not the Secretary of State . that be all well and good , but under clause 16 appeal would need to be make within six week of a decision be publish , with challenge make to the inner house of the Court of Session in Edinburgh — that be all fine — but with a route to appeal to the Supreme Court in the United Kingdom . can the Minister confirm that the final arbiter of any dispute over consent for generating station and overhead line will be here in London ? clause 21 address the cap and floor mechanism , which I have mention to the Energy Minister , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who I be touch to see have come in for my contribution . the cap and floor mechanism for long - duration electricity storage be vital for Drax ' s plan for Cruachan and SSE ' s plan for Coire Glas in Scotland . that they be track 2 and track 3 project give I some concern . can we have some reassurance that the 2030 deliverable project will be facilitate without delay by the ambition of those clause ? clause 22 on benefit for home near electricity transmission project be border on insult . if the utility and value of someone ' s home and area have be significantly impinge by the erection of a pylon nearby , £ 20 . 83 a month off their electricity bill will not ameliorate that . it be refer to as a financial support scheme — the implication be that people need financial support . they do not need it . minister should call it what it be : compensation for the imposition of electrical infrastructure . in all reality , a community have very little say over whether that happen at all . that £ 20 . 83 a month off their electricity bill will be precious little compensation for people who have be mire in the planning process of a pylon or any other generate infrastructure , who have not be able to sell their property for the last two year and will not be able to sell it for the come two year either . I be not say that this infrastructure should not be build , but the Government should not insult people ' s intelligence with vastly less money than they take off they when they end the winter fuel payment . the hon . Member be make an excellent point — it be a rare moment of unity between he and I . I agree that the compensation be not enough . do he agree that part of the problem be that the developer — in our case , Scottish Power Energy Networks , which be build the pylon across my constituency — assume that it will get consent and approval , so it push ahead and the compensation do not really matter ? I agree that the compensation be risible . many people in the hon . member ' s constituency and mine who be subject to these installation be pretty much resign , because no matter what they do or say , it will happen . will the Minister confirm that where constituent be subject to multiple development , that £ 250 a year will be cumulative per imposition on their property ? why be it limit to 10 year ? will the developer come and take the pylon away in 10 year ? in the ambition that be represent by clause 22 , people will see the very minimum that the Government can do while acknowledge that this infrastructure be an imposition . it be not reasonable that people should have a 10 - year miserly compensation for a lifetime ' s imposition on their home . with that , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will grant you 30 second for somebody else . I welcome the Bill , which reflect the priority of a responsible Government commit to tackle the housing crisis and drive regeneration , job , apprenticeship and investment while protect our precious green space and green belt . the Bill will usher in a new era of house building — a long - stand issue that successive government fail to address , but that this Labour Government will tackle head - on with exciting project in my constituency . constituent in Wolverhampton North East know the importance of build more home . it be the no . 1 emergency in my inbox . nearly 8 , 000 resident be on Wolverhampton council ' s housing waiting list , with only 260 property become available each month . nearly 20 % of 25 to 34 - year - old in the UK be live with their parent , make it hard for young people to find the right time to start their own family . every day I hear from family who be struggle to find a place to call home , renter stick in poor condition and young people wonder if they will ever have the chance to own their own home . the status quo be fail , and it be clear that we need change , but let I be equally clear that my constituent know that these must be the right home in the right place . that mean genuinely affordable housing alongside the infrastructure to support it . new home must also mean new GP surgery , school place and transport infrastructure . community can not and should not be leave to cope without the service they rely on . in Wolverhampton North East , we be see great example of just that . Canalside South be set to regenerate 17 . 5 acre of former industrial wasteland near Wolverhampton city centre . have lain derelict for over 15 year , this brownfield site will be transform into 530 energy - efficient home . the new Park Village redevelopment be replace 205 outdate , poor - quality maisonette with modern two , three and four - bedroom home , transform the project for our community . the Bill be a bold and necessary step towards address the housing crisis , support economic growth and investing in our community . it strike the right balance , deliver affordable , high - quality home where they be need most while protect our green space and ensure that infrastructure keep pace with development . this be the action of a responsible government deliver on their promise for the people we serve . I support the Bill , know that it will provide security and hope to countless family in my constituency and across the country . housing and home matter , but so too do democracy , accountability and , really importantly , local community and the local environment , yet the Bill scale back the ability of every planning committee in the country and reduce council involvement in decision making in its local authority and ward . it create a major democratic deficit , with councillor unable to have a voice or a say when decide on a development . this be classic top - down socialism from a Secretary of State who have herself protest to local councillor in her constituency to oppose development . from the outset , the Bill aim to expedite development , but we must not allow that to come at the expense of our green belt and the wildlife that it protect , because , once lose , those space will be go forever . there be grow discussion and concern about the so - call grey belt — the piecemeal erosion of our green belt — which risk set a dangerous precedent . surely the focus should be on a genuine brownfield - first strategy , unlock underutilise urban land before reach for our green space . I urge the Government to strengthen the Bill by put green belt protection and nature at the heart of planning and ensure that the pursuit of growth never come at the cost of our environment and community . the top - down approach to housing target , which have be embody by the Government , be a disgrace , and it place additional pressure on borough like Walsall , which be be ask to do the heavy lifting for area such as Birmingham . the Government have insist that housing target for Walsall rise by an eye - water additional 27 % , while housing target in Birmingham be reduce by nearly half . I could say that that may be because of the trash currently in Labour - lead Birmingham and mention the squeaky blinder , but I will avoid do so today . the Bill do little to prioritise the regeneration of our town centre and our high street . there be no clear strategy to unlock urban brownfield site at scale . there be pub site cry out for development . nor be there the necessary investment to make high street renewal a reality . let we be clear : a brownfield - first strategy require more than warm word ; it need real funding and a clear plan . the Bill lack both . Brownfield site often require remediation , yet there be no meaningful financial support to bring they back into use . we have see it work in the west midland at the Caparo site in Walsall under the work of our previous mayor , Andy Street . another area that the Bill fail to address be the 1 million planning consent for new home in this country . not one of those propose new build property will ever get build if the Bill simply make it easy for developer to drive a coach and horse through our green belt . placemake must go hand in hand with infrastructure — do my right hon . friend not realise that , in addition to placemake , this be about make sure that infrastructure be at the heart of any new development , so that those who move into new place have GP practice , doctor surgery and other facility available to they ? my hon . friend be absolutely spot on . placemake have to go hand in hand with infrastructure to make sure that there be additional school place and doctor surgery to support the new home . employment and transport also matter . otherwise , all we be do be clog up our transport system and road , and frustrate our local community . what be the Bill actually do to address the need to create and foster new community ? that be what it should be do , but I think it be really miss an opportunity . few in this House would say that we do not need home . home need to be part of community , but in its current format , I fear that the Bill be a developer ' s dream . it be also a neighbourhood nightmare , because it do nothing to create resilient and sustainable community where individual where family can grow up and thrive . that be what we should be seek to address through big piece of legislation like this . in short , there be some good thing in the Bill , but it be a miss opportunity . rise — order . the speak limit be now three minute . I call Amanda Martin . on behalf of so many of my constituent , builder and construction company in Portsmouth North who be desperately wait for the chance to have a home and build those home , I rise today to express my wholehearte support for this Planning and Infrastructure Bill . it be both timely and essential for provide the affordable housing so desperately need in Portsmouth . the Bill represent a decisive step forward , unlock our planning system and propel Britain into a new era of construction and development alongside nature recovery . the housing crisis have be a persistent challenge , with many family struggle to find affordable home in my city for far too long . the Bill aim to facilitate the construction of 1 . 5 million new home by 2030 , streamline decision - make process and ensure that development move swiftly . under the last government , we lose far too much time and waste far too much money . by grant council and Mayors great authority to seize land for affordable home , we be remove the bureaucratic burden that have long impede progress and stop the building of much - need home . while I commend the Government ' s commitment to infrastructure development , it be imperative that we scrutinise the project that receive national significant infrastructure project status . a case in point be the propose Aquind interconnector project , which would , if approve , run through my constituency of Portsmouth North . the project face huge opposition for several reason , include environmental concern and year of mass disruption , but this be not nimbyism . the project also face opposition because of the national security risk identify by the Ministry of Defence due to the interconnector ' s location near the Portsmouth naval base . another reason that this project ' s proposal be difficult be the murky financial behind Aquind and the manner in which the national significant infrastructure project status be obtain . aquind be own by a former russian oil boss who have face allegation and accusation of corruption and misconduct , and the co - owner have also make many substantial donation to the Conservative party , raise question around the impartiality of the approval process in 2018 under the last government . as I have say , the Planning and Infrastructure Bill be a welcome and monumental stride towards resolve our housing crisis , but this government must remain vigilant to ensure that the process govern infrastructure project be transparent , equitable and free from undue influence . our planning system be critical and should protect against inappropriate development , include on the green belt and flood plain . it need to protect and enhance biodiversity , and it need local democratic and community input . rather than dictate to community , the Government should work with they . we need not only house but home , and that mean infrastructure , road , school , health service and sewer . whether through " infrastructure first " or make they all statutory consultees , it have to work . planning enforcement must also work , but it be an ongoing issue in my patch despite recent change and improvement . on the change propose to the NSIP system and development consent order , I will speak about the experience in my constituency because we have have DCO complete , have one ongoing and hope to have one in the future . I will start with the one that have finish , which be the Esso pipeline project . it end up block access to home and rip up green space , with poor communication and no compensation to the resident affect . when I ask for compensation , the answer be , " well , it ' s not in the DCO . " reform must ensure great protection for community affect by a DCO project . the M25 / a3 DCO , which many member will know about because of the M25 closure , one of which over the weekend , be a fantastic project that will improve local connectivity , but it have wreak havoc through diversion route and problem at the Painshill roundabout , which National Highways admit be deprioritise in favour of the work . it have cause problem with kid get to school and to their exam . when I try to raise this to get enforcement , include through , among other , the Office of Rail and Road , no formal investigation be even open , and it have be pretty much impossible to find a meaningful way to get enforcement when thing go wrong . we hope to have — we must have — a DCO in the future with the River Thames scheme , which will massively reduce my constituent ' flood risk and make it far less likely that we see a repeat of the impact of the 2014 flood . we have have countless round of consultation . I be concerned that , because of the current system , perfect have become the enemy of the good , and I be worried about the problem with local council reform and the impact they will have . will the Minister in his wind - up explain and give advice to people put together a DCO as to what they should do give the Bill ' s impact when it get Royal Assent ? it be a pleasure to speak in support of this much - need Bill to get Britain building infrastructure again . Dartford — the constituency I have the privilege to represent in this place — can serve as a poster child for the need for this Bill in its struggle to see the hugely need low Thames crossing build . our community be regularly gridlocke by traffic because of the over - capacity Dartford crossing , create near daily misery for resident . the unreliability at Dartford also act as a significant blocker on UK growth , with huge cost through delay calculate at £ 200 million each and every year . the commentator Tom Whipple recently highlight in the Times : " some 36 year ago — or to put it another way , 22 transport secretary ago — the word ' low Thames Crossing ' first appear in the parliamentary record . " it have be eight year since the former Transport Secretary , who be now in the other place , confirm the route . since April 2017 , National Highways have run eight separate consultation , consult for more than 400 day . the planning application eventually balloon to 400 , 000 page . many year on , we look forward to a positive decision from the Department for Transport in May — a Labour Government finally deliver on a much - need infrastructure project for the people of Dartford . we can not continue to face crucial national infrastructure take this long to reach a decision . it be essential that we can deliver new infrastructure if we be to modernise our country , deliver service and unlock growth . we need a clear system that have a degree of predictability for all participant , and that can move at pace while provide the right opportunity for local people to influence plan for the neighbourhood in which they live . part of the reason that so many consultation be need for the propose low Thames crossing be the number of opportunity for judicial review . I warmly welcome the measure in the Bill to reduce such opportunity , which will ensure that case totally without merit do not proceed . before I end my remark , let I welcome the measure on nationally significant infrastructure project . big - ticket item be delay again and again , leave our constituent pay the price in high energy bill , and in the case of the low Thames crossing , leave my constituent pay the price in congested road . I encourage Ministers to think about — and perhaps to address in the wind - up — whether the Bill can be strengthen even far to speed up and streamline the process of get critical infrastructure project build fast , for all our sake . I have reservation about whether the Bill will achieve its aim . somerset face a significant need for more home , particularly social and affordable housing , especially in rural area . it be crucial that local community such as those in Glastonbury and Somerton have a strong voice and a real stake in the process of shape the place where they live , so I share my Liberal Democrat colleague ' concern that the Government ' s overly centralised , developer - lead approach will not mandate the nature - friendly planning consideration need to protect our environment or deliver sustainable development , infrastructure and housing in a way that meet the need of local community . it will exclude they from decision that they should be involve in . the Bill look to introduce the nature restoration levy require developer to meet environmental obligation relate to protect site and specie , but I fear that Natural England , which be mandate with oversee that , might lack the resource , expertise and budget to properly monitor and enforce the nature recovery fund . in addition , those new measure must not place additional unfunded burden on council . local authority must be fully involve in their implementation to ensure that they deliver meaningful outcome for community and for the environment . we must ensure that home do not come at the expense of nature . I be worried that the legislation fail to do enough to protect rare specie such as the great crest newt , which can be find in Glastonbury and Somerton at Lytes Cary Manor and at the aptly name " the Newt " in Castle Cary . the Government ' s manifesto pledge to make change to the planning system to create place that increase climate resilience and promote nature recovery , but the Bill lack the detail need to really protect and support nature . instead , requirement be supplant by undefined improvement assessment . planning should support integration between nature , new home , agriculture and environment , include by achieve nature recovery and biodiversity by design . the Bill also lack a bind commitment to the land use framework to determine the balance between food production and infrastructure creation . that be a miss opportunity to ensure that farmer can improve food security and biodiversity , and climate change mitigation be protect . the family farm tax and the decision to close the sustainable farming incentive without notice will threaten the viability of farm in Glastonbury and Somerton and up and down the country . farmer will play a key role in achieve many of the Bill ' s ambition , and it could have support the long - term sustainability of their business to allow they to optimise their land for multiple purpose and to improve profitability , but sadly that be not the case . every week in my constituency surgery , family turn up with shocking story of live in overcrowded rent home . they show I photo of mould cover the wall , of four bunk bed cram into one tiny room for the whole family , of the space on the kitchen floor where the parent sleep so the kid can have the sofa . in Southall and West Ealing , I see people sleep rough in all weather . that be the human cost of 14 year of the Conservative Government ' s ideological decision to halt labour ' s affordable home programme and to push people into the more expensive and largely unregulated private rent sector . the Conservatives leave over 100 , 000 family in temporary accommodation — the high figure since record begin . the previous Government have a lot to answer for — I will not go through it all now — but we need to start work on solution . the solution to the housing crisis be simple : we need to build more home and the energy , transport and public service infrastructure to support they . this Bill will put an end to the previous Government ' s dither and delay , and will start to get shovel in the ground and child in Ealing Southall off the living room floor . labour - run Ealing council already have one of the most ambitious affordable housing programme in the country , but with more than 5 , 000 family on the waiting list for a home , it need more help to make scheme add up financially . I hope that the Minister will consider the specific barrier to build affordable home in London , and how council can be support in that . there be much that can be learn from London , where 98 % of planning decision be already delegate to expert officer . eale have one of the good planning team in the country , which be award platinum by Planning magazine . it be the top London borough for on - time decision on major application , and have the low percentage overturn at appeal , show that it be get decision right . eale also have a local plan , base on comprehensive local consultation , which be use to guide good quality planning application . the Bill will help to spread good practice from place such as Ealing , and ensure that council across the country can take a more consistent streamlined approach to planning application and bring back strategic planning as there be in London . I welcome mandatory training for member of the planning committee . we will have to look at that in London , so that it be regionally tailor for the London plan . ensure that council can charge the full cost of planning decision be welcome — let we have developer pay that , not council tax payer . finally , the new nature restoration levy will allow for big and more effective environmental improvement , such as Ealing ' s new regional park . the conservative party do not believe in affordable home , but this Bill will back the builder , not the blocker , and again allow we to start build the home and local service that people need . I appreciate the Government ' s intention to speed up the planning and development process to build the clean infrastructure that we need , but we should not be rush through such a huge Bill , give its impact on our community . currently , under the Planning Act 2008 , application for development consent order on nationally significant infrastructure project must include a consultation report that set out requirement to ensure that that have be carry out robustly . however , clause 4 weaken those requirement , and under the change , the report will need only to summarise relevant response and outline any change make as a result . summarising be a dangerous game , and I do not believe that summary have any place in decision of national significance . I be particularly concerned about the impact that that measure could have on Welsh language consideration , environmental concern and the voice of local people . when it come to the Welsh language , there be already a lack of consistency in assess the impact of development . the Bill may exacerbate that problem and weaken protection for the language . concern raise by community about environmental impact could be reduce to a handful of bullet point in a summary . I welcome the Government ' s recognition that household live near new transmission development be affect negatively , but that should go much far than the current proposal . why be that principle not extend to large - scale energy development ? for example , the propose Maen Hir project on Ynys M ô n will cover over 3 , 000 acre of the island ' s land . large solar farm be build on agricultural land and frequently sell to community with the promise of economic benefit . however , replace agricultural industry with huge solar farm will negatively impact the local economy . I recognise the need to improve our energy security , and to do that the Government should be focus on innovative solution to roll out new infrastructure such as undergrounding cable , and promote rooftop solar . in conclusion , I urge the Government not to rush the Bill , because it must give confidence to business and local community , and it must also lay the ground for a more coherent and strategic approach to ensure that development be fit for future generation . I thank the Minister for recognise the urgent need for the delivery of new home and critical infrastructure , and I welcome the plan for 1 . 5 million new safe and decent home by the end of this Parliament . my constituency be in desperate need of affordable home to rent , and of one day people be able to own their own home . planning should be a powerful lever to tackle nature loss and climate change , as well as meet housing and low - carbon infrastructure need . for the Government to meet their nature and climate target , the planning system need to integrate nature recovery alongside development . a new nature and climate duty on all planning authority should require plan policy decision to contribute to meet our climate and nature target . we can not let developer avoid responsibility for biodiversity net gain simply by pay into the nature restoration fund , banking money that may never be spend on nature . we can not let they see it as just the cost of do business . the fund offer no guarantee that the population of protect specie will be replace . accord to an analysis by NatureSpace , protect specie have limit impact on development . more importantly , exist scheme , such as district licensing , already accelerate development by shaving month from planning application . we need to promote exist scheme well . we should acknowledge that the nature restoration fund and environment delivery plan will take year to set up . it be within the Bill ' s scope to give the Forestry Commission a nature duty . with a nature remit , the Forestry Commission could give great weight to habitat recovery in the woodland it manage . the Bill offer a prime legislative opportunity to introduce promise reform to national park and landscape . it should introduce a nature recovery purpose for protect landscape and institute the promise governance reform . in my constituency in Leeds , we be do our fair share . leed city centre be plan to grow by 50 , 000 home in the next decade . however , we be at crisis point with 27 , 000 on the council and housing association waiting list , and 7 , 000 in the high priority banding . they be now wait for three year to get a home . as it stand , fund for local authority be not fluid enough and settlement be not long enough . council need to be self - sufficient if rent be to cover maintenance and replenishment of stock . a big part of the solution be to re - implement grant funding target at property additionality , with a long - term approach to funding to unlock additional opportunity . housing investment should be reclassify as infrastructure to support not only the efficient and effective use of funding , but in recognition of a decent home be the foundation of life and productivity for an individual and the wide economy . I be ask we to marry the understanding that , when listen to community and ecological expert , environmental law need not be a blocker of development , but an enabler of nature restoration , sustainable development and everyone ' s access to green space , with the understanding that housing and social housing be infrastructure for our local authority to build and structure our community for the future . will the Minister meet I to discuss that , as he kindly do about the Renters ( Reform ) Bill ? House building be essential to provide the home that people need , but there be significant problem with our current approach to planning , and it be therefore welcome that the Government be give time and attention to those topic . my constituency and the area surround it have see 35 % population growth in 20 year , yet the housing that have be build meet only some need . South Oxfordshire housing association analysis highlight a serious shortage of social and affordable housing , particularly for one or two - person people household . I have personally experience the challenge of find suitable and / or affordable housing , with very little to rent that be furnish . I appreciate that very few small violin will be play , but even as an MP on my salary , the place I have recently buy be wildly expensive , at nearly £ 300 , 000 for a small , two - bedroome terrace house . in my case , build new housing have free up an old house for I to buy , but the current market be not deliver for people on low income . between 2012 and 2021 , the Vale of White Horse local authority have the third high net increase in dwelling as a proportion of their starting stock . I be proud that Liberal Democrat - lead Vale and South Oxfordshire district council have be proactive in develop a joint local plan , which have successfully combine meeting housing target and five - year land supply requirement with gain significant stakeholder support , for example from the campaign to protect Rural England . the council ' innovative and inclusive approach to consultation with the public mean that they be shortlist for three national award . they run three stage of consultation to encourage as much engagement as possible . More than 5 , 000 response be receive from resident , parish council and local business . a key concern for my constituency be how any further increase in housing can be accommodate , give the dominance of lack of investment in infrastructure in recent year , lead to local concern about further housing . we need target and measure for infrastructure , as well as housing , particularly give that local authority do not have the power or funding to deliver health and major transport scheme . the Bill do not remedy that . my hon . Friend mention the capex cost of the infrastructure . be it not also important that local council and NHS integrate care board be give increase budget to maintain staffing for those facility ? there be no point in build a gp surgery if it can not be staff . my hon . friend be right . building need to be staff , otherwise we will end up like the episode of " Yes Minister " with an empty building . key infrastructure need and ask for my constituency include the Didcot - Culham relief road , with well walking and cycling provision than in the current plan . it be a controversial scheme , but I have give it my backing . they also include walk and cycle investment in new and exist area of the town ; a new railway station at Grove ; Didcot to Oxford line electrification ; and health capacity to keep up with our grow population , particularly a gp surgery at Great Western Park in Didcot . that be why it be so critical that we link housing target to target and measure for wide infrastructure . community need housing , but they also need all the accompany public and private amenity and service that be essential for happy and well - function community . many colleague in the House will know that I love talk about education , but this Bill give I the opportunity to talk about something even close to my heart than that . no , it be not " Neighbours " ; it be my home of Harlow . Harlow be a post - war new town . it may not have be the first or the most successful — certainly not at football — but I argue that it be the one with the most heart . the principle that underpin Harlow be about community and a collective identity . despite its challenge , I believe that that sense of community shine through today . I welcome the Bill ' s recognition of the importance of development corporation , and I urge the Minister to look at the not - so - new town of Stevenage and Harlow — the one I have the honour to call my home and to represent in this place . if we speak to some resident of Harlow — the more experienced resident , let we say — they will talk with great fondness about the Harlow development corporation . I will take a moment to recognise those new - town pioneer : they be people who make sure that they get thing do . I also pay tribute to one of my predecessor in this place , Leah Manning , for her vision of what Harlow could be . we still have the Leah Manning centre , which care for some of those more experienced resident . I welcome the commitment to strengthen the link between the development corporation and local transport authority , as that connectivity be vital . however , I also draw the Minister ' s attention to Harlow ' s neighbourhood centre , such as Bush Fair and the Stow . before the idea of the 15 - minute city be moot — and , I believe , misunderstood by some people — Sir Frederick Gibberd recognise the need for every neighbourhood to have a sense of identity , a shopping centre , a central point to meet , a work of art or two , a park and our infamous green wedge , which mean that people can get from one end of Harlow to the other without ever need to go on a road . no one will know well about the issue of land banking than the people of Harlow . huge swathe of our town centre be no - go zone , leave in a state of decay . abandoned building have be leave to rot or to become a refuge for those outside the law . that need to change , and I believe that this legislation will help with that . contrary to mislead report , this Bill be not about target landowner . nothing in the Bill change the core principle of compulsory purchase , but it must be use only when negotiation have not succeed and where there be a compelling case in the public interest . I welcome the Government ' s ongoing commitment to build the home we need . as someone who have work in the charity sector for a homelessness charity , I know as much as anyone how much they be need . for every resident who complain about a new housing development , I speak to five other resident who live in overcrowded and unsuitable accommodation or face the risk of homelessness . I be delighted that the Deputy Prime Minister have arrive in time to hear my speech . I do not question her sincerity and intention , or that of the Planning Minister , regard the legislation or the planning change introduce in the revise national planning policy framework . my concern be whether they will actually deliver the 1 . 5 million target , and I sincerely doubt that they will . as with previous government — this be not unique to the present Government — the methodology of the housing target be base on a delusion that private developer will collude with the Government to drive down the price of their finished product . the constituency I represent be in Cornwall , and I work in this sector during my nine - year sabbatical from this place . in place such as Cornwall , we have meet target — indeed , we have exceed they . we have more than treble the housing supply , yet local people ' s housing problem have get significantly bad . there have be an increase in the number of second home . the previous Government have hand out £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money to holiday homeowner in the last 10 year , when only half that amount have be put into first home for local people . we need target that be base on deliver what community need . the problem be that our target be a means to an end , and building home do not necessarily mean that we meet the need . if those target be the end , rather than the mean — in other word , if we be set target that be about reduce need , rather than simply fill developer ' pocket — those of we in Cornwall , and no doubt in the rest of the country , would be in a far well place . I hope that Ministers will look at this issue again and allow area that have struggle in the past to set target that address need , rather than developer ’ greed . these be not nimby territory ; they want to meet that need . the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) mention the rural exception policy , which be a very good policy that could be develop far . rather than be the exception , it should be a planning norm in many rural area in order to deliver their need . compensation for nature loss , which be deal with in clause 55 , need to be strengthen — a lot of nature charity be very worried about that . finally , part 5 of the Bill , which deal with compulsory purchase , need to be build up to stand behind this . I would like the Government to develop that part of the Bill far . Britain find itself in a chokehold , with bottleneck leave it unable to update its infrastructure to a modern standard . part of the story behind that be the last government ' s inertia and infighting , which come at the expense of the national interest . [ interruption . ] I hear that I have some musical accompaniment . the time that it take to secure planning permission for major infrastructure have almost double over the past decade . that have real - world consequence , include high bill , long commute , increase water shortage and flooding — I could go on . it be essential that we recapture the victorian and post - war sense of purpose that symbolise progress and possibility , and ultimately deliver improvement to people ' s everyday life . it be that kind of get up and go that make the Derwent valley the home of the industrial revolution , use the power of river to drive the mill in place such as Belper and Milford — cheap renewable energy , almost two century before it be fashionable . if we want this country to continue to punch above its weight , we must resolve the delay and frustration I have refer to . failure to do so will literally mean that we can not keep the light on . bear that in mind , in the short time that I have , I will focus my contribution on the bit of the Bill that relate to energy . measure in the Bill will bring a much - welcome boost to ev charge infrastructure . driver of electric vehicle know all too well the frustration of be unable to undertake long journey , give the lack of adequate charger in many area — particularly the east midland , which have one of the low proportion of electric charger per 100 , 000 people anywhere in the UK . that investment will be welcome news to company such as Trentbarton , a bus operator serve my constituency . it want to transition to a green fleet of electric bus , but it have be hamper by insufficient public infrastructure , include the high cost of connect to the grid and a lack of availability of adequate charge facility locally . this legislation must be a springboard for embrace not only the infrastructure we need today , but the infrastructure we will need tomorrow . in that light , I want to see work do on hydrogen infrastructure . I also want to speak about people who feel anxious about change . this be nothing new ; it be as old as time itself . People in my constituency have some concern about National Grid ' s propose pylon upgrade between Chesterfield and Willington . I ask the Government to please ensure that National Grid listen to people in Morley , Stanley , Ockbrook and Borrowash and make change where it be right to do so , so that it can deliver project with respect for community . community ' concern can not be dismiss , and while we must upgrade our electricity infrastructure to help we transition to net zero , deliver cheap bill and achieve energy independence , my role in this place be to speak up for people in Mid Derbyshire and ensure they be hear and respect . however , although oppose all new infrastructure without collaborate to improve it might feel like a victory in the short term , the cost of fail to step up will be bear by all of we , especially the next generation . I call the final speaker . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . as a Glasgow MP , I emphasise how important this Bill be for Scotland and Scotland ' s economy . we have huge opportunity in the form of offshore wind and float wind , but those opportunity depend on the development of transmission infrastructure in England . this Bill will help to reduce bill in Scotland by get we away from expensive gas and on to cheap fix - price wind . delay in England cost my poor constituent a lot of money . the Bill do much more than that . it modernise the regime for connection to the electricity transmission and distribution system , speed up the connection of vital energy project for energy security . the UK Government have work closely with the Scottish Government — deliver on their promise to put country first and Scotland first , and party second — to modernise the regime for consent overhead power line and generate station in Scotland . the Bill also make provision for long - duration energy storage . the House may wonder what that be . there be all sort of exciting new technology in this area , but I commend to everyone a visit to Cruachan power station to see the hollow mountain in the glen of Scotland . they will see how important it be and what great opportunity it provide for british engineering , and for the child in our school to pursue career in engineering . there be also other reform that be important to the electricity sector in Scotland . this may be a historic moment of some agreement between the SNP and the Labour party in this Chamber , but I would not want to be too gentle on the SNP Scottish Government , which take far too long to consent project in Scotland . far too many project sit on Ministers ' desk for far too long , and that be hold back investment . the same apply with the SNP council in Glasgow . we need to get go on some of these consent , and the SNP in Glasgow and Edinburgh need to get a move on with consent project that will create job and assist my constituent . this be a great bill . it look to the future . it will create opportunity for Britain . it be a bill of aspiration and ambition for our country . for too long , we have keep on say no to great development that create job and create wealth . this Bill say , " let ' s go for it . let ' s create job . let ' s create investment . " I support it fully . we now come to the Front Benchers for the wind - up . there have be many eloquent and thoughtful contribution to the debate today , and I would like to build on and respond to some of the comment that have be make . great speech have be make by hon . friend and Members from all part of the House . in particular , may I mention my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) ? like I , he have some concern about the Bill , despite know the Government ' s genuine intention . it come with some serious question , particularly about give power to Natural England — a quango — while remove and cut other quango ; and about the future resourcing of Natural England , with those extra responsibility . I hope the Minister for Housing and Planning will be able to answer some of those concern in his wind - up . the Deputy Prime Minister have maintain that democracy will still be there for local people who want to have their say over planning application , but the simple fact be that the Bill will cut the right of planning committee and local authority to make decision for their local area . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) mention that house building be up in rural area versus urban area , and I will come on to that point later . he be absolutely right to outline the challenge he have in Mid Buckinghamshire and in the wide county . he be also right to focus on the infrastructure and how it be wrong just to focus on renewable . thousand of acre will be use up for solar power across the country , and the Conservatives believe that we should be look at alternative option for energy . the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) say that he be a planning bore , and that he become one during his time listen to various member of the Labour party . when we be both in oppose student political party at the University of Southampton in 2000 — not so long ago , I will say — he be not a bore then , and I do not expect that he will be in the speech he make during his career in the House . my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) be a strong advocate for his constituency . he be right to say that the introduction of edp be a good idea , but as case show — I will develop some of the thinking behind this later on — there be a mercenary approach that do not provide local habitat protection , and just try to move the issue somewhere else . my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) mention local planning and remove power . he say that the use of the compulsory purchase order be anti - democratic when it come to agricultural land , and he be absolutely correct . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) recognise , as we do , the Government ' s mandate to try to build the 1 . 5 million home require under their legislation . however , I have to say to the House that nobody believe they will be able to achieve it , include the Minister for Housing and Planning — [ interruption . ] it be on the record . my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) mention the " rural versus urban " competition that the Government have create , and the 80 % uplift in his constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) say that target have double in his constituency while they be down in London . I fail to persuade a single Labour Member to admit that the Mayor of London be not capable of deliver the number , although the Government have reduce they by a record amount . my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) say that there be no detail of community improvement fund , and that the threshold for solar development be still too low and need to be raise . we look forward to discuss that in Committee . my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) mention the green belt and nature be at the heart of planning , and the top - down application in the Bill . I completely agree with she . last but by no mean least , my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) say that development consent order should be accountable and well suit for local people , and we entirely agree . we on this side of the House have always have concern about the Government ' s centralise zeal when it come to planning . when they first introduce the Bill to the House , it cement many of our fear about the traditional centralise mission that Ministers in this Administration have show a taste for in various area of government since take office . let we face it : that be the Labour party ' s way . while we all recognise that there be a need for tangible change to deliver suitable and relevant infrastructure , they should not be to the detriment of the right and responsibility of locally elect representative and plan committee or those who now face have their land take away by this Government ' s unfair compulsory purchase order change ; but that be what the Bill do . the Deputy Prime Minister say that she want to streamline decision making , but we all know that the Bill take those local power away . I once say during a Westminster Hall debate that it be fundamentally not good practice or good governance to deliver substantial change to the national planning policy framework before legislate for an overarching change in plan infrastructure policy . it lead to confusion on the ground and delay in good planning , and rush enforce devolution and local government reorganisation will far delay and complicate the intended consequence of the Bill . let we also not forget that the Government have now introduce new housing target that will reclassify land from grey belt , and will see area green - light for development over the objection of local people and local authority . this Bill will do that on a strategic scale that we have never see before . instead of deliver an algorithm that would fairly distribute building target , the Government have introduce a politically motivated , unfair housing target regime that have opposition council in its crosshair , triple the building burden in some case , while reward labour council for their failure to deliver in their own authority . this reek of political gerrymandering , and the Government must think again . the Deputy Prime Minister say that she want the home that she will be deliver to be affordable . may I remind Labour Members that it be her Government , when she come in , who scrap help to buy , scrap shared ownership , and scrap mechanism that allow the people in this country to get on to the housing ladder ? there be three area of concern in the Bill . first , it threaten to remove local councillor ' ability to have their say by set up a national scheme of delegation that will specify which type of application will be determine by council officer and which should go to planning committee — rule all make from the desk of Ministers in Whitehall — but not plan application that can be decide in the committee room of town hall across the United Kingdom . the Local Government Association agree , and have comment : " there remain concern around how it will ensure that council — who know their area well and what they need — remain at the heart of the planning process . the democratic role of councillor in decision - making be the backbone of the English " — and british — " planning system , and this should not be diminish . " we agree ; the Government do not . these change will require rural county area to develop 56 % more housing than the last Government ' s standard method . that be more than any other local authority type and equate to over 180 , 000 home need to be deliver in county per year , compare with just over 115 , 000 under the previous method . on average , that be a rural uplift of 115 % , while urban area with major conurbation — mostly labour authority — be only up by 17 % . the hon . Gentleman and I both represent rural constituency , and we both know there be a demographic crisis in those area . do he agree that young people in rural area need home to live in and home to work from ? what do he and his party have against young people in rural area ? I do not have anything against young people in rural area at all , but surely the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will not see it as fair that his Government have reduce target on their own authority in urban centre , where there be already the infrastructure , where generally housing supply be well and where it be easy to get that infrastructure through , but be punish rural area across the country . it be not a sensible or feasible solution to a very clear problem ; it will drastically increase pressure on exist rural infrastructure and override the democratically elect local leader who have a stake in , and should have a say in , the development of their local area . it also raise the question of how this legislation be deliverable when local government reorganisation will change the spatial development strategy of local authority . it be far concern that the chief executive of Homes England have cast doubt on whether the Government can realistically meet their goal of 1 . 5 million home , and so do the Housing Minister , in a Select Committee hearing last year . council leader , developer and even the Government ' s own expert be warn that these target be unachievable . on that point , do my hon . friend agree that one way of help to deliver home would be to ensure that those that have planning permission be build out first , thus save the green belt and some of our suburban area and rural area , soon rather than later ? [ interruption . ] Labour member shout from a sedentary position to ask why we never do it . this be one of the large planning Bills to come before the House in a number of year , and nowhere have the Government mention that they would force developer to build house that have already be give planning permission . we have a Government who have reduce housing target in urban area , where it be easy to build due to exist infrastructure , population density and the availability of brownfield site . instead , Labour ' s reform to the NPPF and their proposal in this Bill have result in top - down target that will silence local voice . the Government have choose to prioritise building in rural area and on the green belt rather than focus where the demand for housing be great , in our city and urban centre . by only allow councillor to debate and discuss the proposal that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Government define as large development , local people ' s voice within the planning system will be erode , take away the discretion that plan committee can use to resolve small application that come down to very nuanced decision . the principle of environmental delivery plan be certainly welcome , and we know they have be look on favourably by proponent of sustainable development . it be vital that nature recovery be incorporate into building plan . it be concern , however , as the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) say , that Natural England will have its workload dramatically increase , amid uncertainty about whether it have the budget and authority and whether it can bear the burden of those additional responsibility . can the Minister outline any assessment his Department have do on the budgetary increase that would be require for Natural England to take on the additional responsibility envisage in the Bill ? furthermore , and most concern , the Government seek to overhaul the compulsory purchase process , allow land to be acquire for project deem to be in the public interest , and will change the process to allow fast land acquisition . farmer may be force to sell the land for its current value , rather than its potential worth if develop , but farmer deserve a fair price if they choose to sell their land , rather than below market price . they be already be hammer over inheritance tax and the suspension of the sustainable farming incentive ; the propose change to cpo will introduce a further power imbalance that threaten to override their legitimate right to a fair deal . the Countryside Alliance warn that " give council more power to reduce the value of land be a step too far , especially in the context of such a challenging outlook for farmer and the inheritance tax fiasco . this be not about people block development , it ' s about the state pay the market price for land . we need more house and more economic development , but not at the cost of basic principle . " although it be true that tenant farmer will get an increase on any CPO purchase , landowne farmer who already face unsustainable pressure will once again be short - change by this Government ' s plan . while the Government say that they want to deliver more home , increase affordability , streamline the system and deliver the home we need , nobody accept that they can do it . they give with one hand , but have overwhelmingly take away with the other , through destroy this country ' s economy , the ability of developer and people to build the housing we need . as we have outline , their plan , as with any rush piece of work , threaten to overwhelm the system , in some case threaten to erode the safeguard in place to encourage sustainable and vital development , and remove local voice from local people . I look forward to Labour mps explain to the labour leader of their council why their Labour Deputy Prime Minister take away their local right as councillor to represent their local community . we will always stand up against excessive Government centralisation , and in favour of local representative who know their community well . we have a duty to do so . we have a duty to defend farmer who , as steward of the land , must have their land right respect ; to defend local democracy and the role of local council , which disagree with their power be take away ; and to defend the people out there who want new housing , but want local choice for local people . it be clear that the Government can not deliver on that challenge . we will amend and improve the Bill to ensure that it deliver for local councillor and local people ; the Government simply have not do so . it be a real pleasure to close this second reading debate for the Government , and I thank all hon . and right hon . member who have participate in it . not unexpectedly , it have be a debate of contrast . on the one hand , we have have the privilege of listen to a large number of well - inform and thoughtful contribution from hon . member who agree with the main principle of the Bill . in a crowded field , I commend in particular the excellent speech make by my hon . friend the Members for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) , for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) , for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) , for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) , for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) and for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) . Set against those , we be subject to a series of contribution from hon . and right hon . member who , while profess support in principle for the intention of the Bill , nevertheless alight on a range of flawed and in some case spurious reason why they oppose it . I be sadden to say that among the most glaring example of that approach be the speech make by the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , whose party ' s reason amendment be not select . while I appreciate fully his need to manage the discordant voice on his own Benches when it come to housing and major infrastructure , the argument he make be both confused and disingenuous . this government wholly reject his claim that the Bill will not result in the ambitious delivery of the infrastructure and housing the country need . I say gently to the hon . Gentleman that a party that declare in its manifesto only last year that it be commit to " increase building of new home to 380 , 000 a year " should be get behind this legislation , not seek to block it . I sincerely hope that , even at this late stage , the liberal Democrats will reconsider their position . do the Minister accept that it would be easy to support this Bill if it do not include clause that provide the Secretary of State with the power not just to take some decision away from plan committee , but to take all decision away from plan committee , because that provision be completely unlimited in its scope ? that be not the case , and there have be a huge amount of scaremongere when it come to the provision in the Bill that relate to plan committee . I will deal with that particular point in due course . among hon . member who do support the main principle of the Bill , there be of course understandable difference of opinion . some express their unequivocal support for each and every one of its provision , other convey their broad support while argue for specific change to be make or further measure to be add , but all be in agreement that this legislation must progress if we be to streamline the delivery of new home and critical infrastructure , as the House as a whole ostensibly assert that we must . therein lie the crux of the issue and the reason , I must say candidly , for the ca not at the heart of some of the speech that we have hear . we can all profess in principle our support for the end — do so be , after all , risk free — but what matter be whether we be prepare in practice to also will the mean . when it come to housing and infrastructure , the previous Government be not willing to do so , hence the dissonance in their final year between their state commitment to build more home and their decision in practice to recklessly abolish mandatory housing target and thereby torpedo housing supply in a forlorn attempt to appease a disgruntled group of their anti - housing back Benchers . thankfully , this Labour Government be prepared to do what it take to deliver the home and the infrastructure our country need . the Bill be transformative . it will fundamentally change how we build thing in this country . in so do , it will help we to tackle the housing crisis , raise living standard in every part of the country and deliver on our plan for change . during the five hour we have debate the Bill , an extremely wide range of issue have be raise . I have hear all of they and I will seek to respond to as many in the time available to I , but I will not be able to cover all of they . I will therefore deal with the main theme and issue that have be raise in the course of the debate . I will begin , if I may , with the various point make in relation to nationally significant infrastructure . member make a variety of point cover issue such as national policy statement and judicial review , but most of the contribution focus in on the change the Bill will make to consultation requirement for nationally significant infrastructure project . as the House will be aware , the NSIP planning regime be establish through the Planning Act 2008 to provide more certainty on the need for nationally significant project . in its early year , the system work well . however , its performance have sharply deteriorate in recent year , at a time when the need for it have increase dramatically . in 2021 , it take , on average , 4 . 2 year for a project to secure development consent , compare with 2 . 6 year in 2012 . the documentation , as have be refer to by a number of hon . member , underpin consent have be get long and in too many instance now run to ten of thousand of page . alongside an increase in legal challenge , uncertainty about meet statutory requirement have lead to great risk aversion and gold plate throughout the whole process . the cost of delay obviously increase the cost of project , and those cost be ultimately pass on to taxpayer for public infrastructure and bill payer or customer for private infrastructure . the measure in the Bill will provide for a fast and more certain consenting process , strip away unnecessary consultation requirement that do nothing to improve application or meaningfully engage community . they will , to use the phrase use by the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , ensure that the NSIP regime be fire on all cylinder . I want to make it clear that the measure in the Bill be not the limit of our ambition on streamline the NSIP regime . in particular , I note the call from several hon . member to consider address the significant elongation of pre - application period result from the way in which statutory procedure be now be apply . this be an issue to which the Deputy Prime Minister and I have already give a significant amount of thought , and I commit to give further consideration to the case for use the Bill to address statutory requirement that would appear to be no long drive good outcome . I can assure those hon . member that the Government will not hesitate to act boldly if there be a compelling case for reform in this area . many hon . member touch on the nature restoration fund . we be fully commit to make sure development contribute to nature ' s recovery , deliver a win - win for nature and the economy . we will be take three step to deliver on our new approach . first , responsibility for identify action to address environmental impact will be move away from multiple project - specific assessment in an area to a single strategic assessment and delivery plan . secondly , more responsibility for plan and implement strategic action will be move on to the state , deliver through organisation with the right expertise and the necessary flexibility to take action that most effectively deliver positive outcome for nature . thirdly , we will allow impact to be deal with strategically in exchange for a financial payment , so development can proceed more quickly . project - level assessment be then limit only to those harm not deal with strategically . to those hon . member who raise concern that the provision will have the effect of reduce the level of environmental protection of exist environmental law , I assure they that that be not the case , something attest to by the section 20 statement on the face of the Bill in the name of the Deputy Prime Minister . our reform be build around deliver overall positive outcome for protect site and specie , and be the result of significant engagement across the development sector , environmental group and nature service provider . that be why , at the Bill ' s introduction , we see a range of voice welcome the new approach it bring to unlock a win - win for development and nature . the shadow Secretary of State raise concern about how quickly we will be able to implement environmental delivery plan . we be confident we can get edp in place fast . that be why we have be clear that we want to see the first edp prepare alongside the Bill and operational for developer to use shortly after Royal Assent . we be also look for opportunity to provide up - front funding so that we can kick off action in advance of need , with cost recover as development come forward , which will allow we to get shovel in the ground and unlock home and infrastructure more quickly . lastly , the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) raise concern about the CPO power give to Natural England . if we be go to be successful in deliver a win - win for nature and the economy through the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , it be vital that Natural England have sufficient power to deliver the conservation measure require . compulsory purchase be just one tool , and we would expect Natural England to consider use such power as a last resort , subject to appropriate scrutiny and oversight , include ultimate authorisation by the Secretary of State . more broadly , the nature restoration fund will provide opportunity for landowner to work with Natural England to drive nature recovery , improve our green space for generation to come . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that this be not a radical change . many public body with statutory power have compulsory purchase power , include local authority and — as he of all people should be aware — health service body , as well as some executive agency , such as Homes England . I want to touch on plan committee before conclude . several hon . member raise concern over our plan to modernise they ; indeed , some suggest that our reform be tantamount to remove democratic control from local people . that be simply not the case . the shadow Secretary of State assert that resident would lose the opportunity to object to a planning application , which be incorrect . People will still be able to object to individual application in the way they can now . how be what the Minister be say consistent with what he say on the Floor of the House on 9 December , when he say : " the change be design to … focus the time of elect councillor on the most significant or controversial application " — [ Official Report , 9 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 673 . ] — which he be go to dictate ? will he , at the very least , publish his draft regulation on what he intend through clause 46 alongside the passage of the Bill ? I will address that specific point in due course . the proposal be entirely consistent ; we do want to make change to where planning committee can determine decision , but local resident will be able to object to application in every instance , as they can now . planning be principally a local activity , and this Government have make clear at every available opportunity that the plan - lead approach be and must remain the cornerstone of the planning system . local plan be the good way for community to shape decision about how to deliver the housing and wide development their area need . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress , if the hon . Gentleman do not mind . we want more people involve in the development of local plan . the measure on planning decision will simply ensure that the process of determine application at a local level be more streamlined and efficient . I have be a local councillor , and I have sit on plan committee , as I know many hon . member have . we all know that there be significant room for improvement in how such committee operate . it be , therefore , disappointing to hear hon . member portray what be sensible proposal for modernise the local planning system as a fundamental attack on local democracy when they be anything but . decision about what to build and where should be shape by local community and reflect the view of local resident . local democratic oversight of planning decision be essential , but it be also vital that plan committee operate as effectively as possible . planning committee need to be focus on key application for large development , not small - scale project or niche technical detail . the Bill will ensure they can play a proper role in scrutinise development without obstruct it , while maximise the use of experienced professional planner . rise — I will happily give way for the final time . I would like to seek some clarity from the Minister on that : he say that local councillor will be able to scrutinise , but not actually stop — this be the point I want to probe — a large - scale planning application . no ; the right hon . Lady have misunderstood I . planning committee will be able to scrutinise and make decision on a series of application . on a point raise by the shadow Secretary of State , the House should also be aware that we intend to formally consult on these measure in the come week . hon . member will therefore be able to engage with the detail and precisely the type of question that the right hon . Lady raise , rightly , alongside consideration of the Bill . will the Minister give way ? I be not go to give way ; I be go to make some progress . I will briefly address CPO power before I conclude , as a number of hon . member raise concern about our change to the process . let I be clear : these reform be not about target farmer or any specific type of land or landowner . we want to reform the compulsory purchase process and land compensation rule to speed up and lower the cost of the delivery of housing and infrastructure in the public interest . we have already take action , fully implement direction power that provide for the removal of hope value from the assessment of compensation for certain type of cpo , such as those facilitate affordable housing — provision , I might say , introduce by the previous Government in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 . we have publish update and more detailed guidance on the process to help local authority . this Bill will now go far , ensure that the process for acquire land with a direction be more efficient and that administrative cost be reduce , and we be expand the power to remove hope value by direction to parish and town council . we want to see these power use and will work closely with local authority to ensure that they have the support to take advantage of the reform . to conclude , I thank all hon . and right hon . member who contribute to the debate . I look forward to engage with hon . member across the House as the Bill progress . a wide range of view have be express over the course of the debate , but there be clearly a broad consensus that when it come to deliver new home and critical infrastructure — [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister say no , so perhaps he do not agree , but the status quo be fail the country and more importantly those who last year send we to this place to do well . the process of secure consent for nationally significant infrastructure project be demonstrably too slow and uncertain and be constrain economic growth and undermine our energy security . the current approach to development and the environment too often see both sustainable house building and nature recovery stall . in exercise essential local democratic oversight , plan committee clearly do not operate as effectively as they could , and local planning authority do not have adequate funding to deliver their service . the compulsory purchase order process be patently too slow and cumbersome , and development corporation be not equip to operate in the way we will need they to in the year ahead . it be abundantly clear that the lack of effective mechanism for cross - boundary strategic planning mean that we can not address development and infrastructure need across sub - region as well as we otherwise might . we can and must do thing differently . that mean be prepared to will the mean as well as the end . fourteen year of failure have leave the country with a belief that nothing work , that nothing get build , and that Britain can no long do big thing . this government refuse to accept the stagnation and decline we be bequeath . we be elect on the promise of change , and we be determined to deliver it . through the measure introduce by this landmark Bill , we will get Britain build again , unleash economic growth and deliver on the promise of national renewal . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Polly Billington Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Martin McCluskey Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann Davies Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew James McMurdock Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Bobby Dean Charlie Maynard the House divide : Ayes 330 , Noes 74 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . planning and Infrastructure Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 22 May 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . planning and Infrastructure Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , a Government Department or another public authority ; and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . planning and Infrastructure Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of fee or levy under or by virtue of the Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Constitutional Law that the draft Disclosure ( Scotland ) Act 2020 ( Consequential Provisions and Modifications ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 11 February , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electronic Communications that the draft Electronic Communications ( Networks and Services ) ( Designated Vendor Directions ) ( penalty ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 11 February , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Standards order , that Melanie Onn be discharge from the Committee on Standards and Gill Furniss be add . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) Privileges order , that Melanie Onn be discharge from the Committee of Privileges and Gill Furniss be add . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) International Development Ordered , that Laura Kyrke - Smith be discharge from the International Development Committee and Tracy Gilbert be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Newcastle United Carabao Cup Win I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests regard hospitality ticket receive from Newcastle United last year . I rise to present this petition on Newcastle United ' s Carabao cup win . on 16 March , Newcastle United , under the leadership of Eddie Howe , overturn seven decade of disappointment to win the club ' s first major trophy since 1955 . the club be so important to the Toon ' s culture , economy , reputation and , indeed , mood , and this win will be enjoy by fan far into the future , but there be no formal way for fan to mark their appreciation of Newcastle United . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West , declare that Newcastle United Football Club be to be warmly congratulate on its recent Carabao Cup win ; note that this be the club ' s first major trophy win since 1955 ; and far declare the petitioner ' ongoing support for Newcastle United and its fan . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to congratulate Newcastle United Football Club on its achievement , and to establish a national award to recognise major group sporting achievement . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003053 ] Male Suicide in Rotherham Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) in Rotherham , male suicide be a silent tragedy on the rise . as the local MP , I receive too many call or message early in the morning or late at night , tell I about another husband , father , brother or friend who have die in these tragic circumstance . each call haunt we and our community , but it be nothing compare to the unimaginable sense of grief and agony suffer by family and friend . the grow phenomenon of male suicide be part of a wide storm we face : of worsen mental health and mental health provision for man ; of splinter community and support network ; and of a society that too often make some man feel that they be unable to open up or reach out for help , or indeed that they be themselves part of the problem . tonight I want to make the argument for further Government action , and also offer a call to arm to we all . we can all do more to check in on our neighbour , friend and colleague , and to build safe space for man to talk , to feel value and to know that it be okay not to feel okay and that there be help . we should never forget the tragedy of woman take their own life , too , and the particular circumstance that only woman face that might lead they towards do so . that matter be worthy of its own debate , though much of what we discuss will of course be relevant . the number for man be startling and worth state bluntly : suicide be the big killer of man age under 50 . man account for three out of four suicide in England and Wales . a hundred man end their life each week across the country . in Rotherham , man account for 79 % of suicide . in Doncaster last year , 80 % of those who die from suicide be man , and we of course have one of the large number of veteran in the whole of Yorkshire and the Humber . Doncaster council have the armed force covenant . will my hon . friend join I in promote its work , particularly around the veteran - friendly suicide prevention training that make a huge difference to all the people who take part in it ? my hon . friend make a good point . just on Friday , I have the Defence Secretary , who be with we today , and the Veterans Minister in Dinnington to speak with veteran group and organisation . mental health provision be right at the top of the agenda , as it should be . beyond each individual tragedy be a wide story . there be a specific challenge for policymaker in grapple with male suicide . I commend the hon . Gentleman , who I speak to beforehand . this be his first Adjournment debate , and it be on a subject that every one of we understand only too well . I be sadden to hear the vast number of reason contribute to male suicide in his constituency . there be certainly more to be do to support man across the UK . Suicide happen everywhere and especially in man — 70 % of the suicide in Northern Ireland be man . the majority of they occur in deprive area . do he agree that we need great accessibility to mental health service in deprive area to ensure that man be not leave behind ? I agree with the hon . member , who make a characteristically pithy point . John Leaver , who do incredible work with man in tough time in Kiveton Park and Wales in my constituency , be in many way the inspiration for the debate and the campaign I intend to run in Rotherham . John work with man and woman , but have extensive experience of the particular issue that man face in his area . he have often be the person tell I of another suicide , and not infrequently it be somebody he know well , play football with , go to school with or be an old family friend . he speak to I about the effect of the decline of post - industrial town and village , such as Kiveton Park , Dinnington , Maltby and Thurcroft in my constituency , on man and notion of masculinity . those place be build on the back of coalmining — a proud tradition of honest hard work , offer a sense of purpose and meaning for generation of young man . we should not simply look back with rose - tint spectacle , but after the closure of the pit , we have too often struggle to replace that social fabric for man . these remain brilliant community with a long - stand sense of solidarity and camaraderie , but too many within they still feel lost . even bad , too many man feel victimised or attack . I be recently strike by the word of musician Sam Fender in a newspaper interview . speak about the town in the north - east of England that he grow up in , he say lad be " be shame all the time and make to feel like they ' re a problem . it ' s this narrative be tell to white boy from nowhere town . " I fear there be some truth to that — that man from town build in a bygone era feel they be a problem in modern time . I want to play my part as the local MP in change that , and I be not alone . brilliant organisation in my constituency already do fantastic work . Andy ' s Man Club in Maltby and Kiveton Park meet every Monday evening . well today , run by John Leaver , be incredible at support man in time of real difficulty . there be many fantastic sport club and association , from box in Dinnington to Swallownest FC and Maltby Main FC . there be the regular coffee morning , the walking and rambling club , and the monthly man ' s breakfast in Anston . they all play a vital role in support man in difficult circumstance . veteran have already be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . would my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to Veterans in need together ? he talk about organisation that support man . that organisation support man every Wednesday at Morley fire station without fail and offer support to those who need it . that service in my hon . friend ' s constituency sound vital — just like those in my constituency . the focus on veteran in particular be critical . suicide do not simply affect the person take their own life . family lose love one and town and village be scar by the traumatic loss of people with great promise and talent . the number of man who kill themselves every year be eclipse by the number of people affect by their loss . I will use my role as the local MP to press the Government to take action . there be specific policy issue that I want to raise . I be very aware of specific issue to do with gambling and male suicide . I have meet two local mother who be fight for justice after their son , both of whom be hard - work , talented and honourable man , take their own life far too young as a result of spiral online gambling addiction . social medium and technology have allow vulnerable user easy access to gambling . a report find two year ago that there have be a 43 % annual rise in demand for NHS gambling clinic , and that one in three of those patient have already attempt to take their own life . it be estimate that every year there be more than 400 gambling - relate suicide in England — and those be the one we know of . I have before urge the Government to consider way in which we can empower coroner court , and indeed place responsibility on coroner , to look at these issue in a robust and rigorous manner . at the moment , the causative link between gambling addiction and suicide be not give appropriate recognition . there be broad issue . although the issue of man ' s mental health be complex , there be specific policy area that the Government must confront . first , the rate of man take their own life be high in the most deprived community . the suicide rate in the most deprive 10 % of area in England in the two year from 2017 to 2019 be 14 . 1 % — almost double the rate in the least deprive area . indeed , rate of man take their own life in the region of England be almost double what they be in London . tackle poverty and insecure work across our country be a labour mission , and it be one that will save life . I thank the hon . member for give way and for speak so eloquently about this difficult and sensitive subject . on that point , it be know that those live in poverty be three time more likely to take their own life or have mental health issue than people on the average wage . link into that , 85 % of homeless people be man , and their homelessness be often relate to mental health issue . I appreciate all the work that he be do to highlight poverty . there be a direct link and we should not shy away from acknowledge , confront and talk about it . when we talk about tackle poverty , we be talk about save life , too . secondly , we must save our NHS . this Government inherit a dilapidated health service and a particularly severely under - resource mental health service . fourteen year of under - investment and chaotic reform have hinder effort to grasp this crisis . long delay for treatment and diagnosis mean that so many man can not get the support that they need and face worsen mental health in the meantime . thirdly , in my view we must be bold in acknowledge the role that technology and social medium have play in this crisis . new technology and social medium can help effort to combat man in difficult time : the internet can allow fast access to mental health provision and can provide a network . however , it have be clear for more than a decade now that technology and social medium can be deeply damaging to mental health , erode confidence , often siloe rather than enhance our community , and expose people to potentially harmful material . I know that many colleague in the House have be move by the Netflix drama " Adolescence " , which shine a light on the way the internet can remould idea of masculinity and purpose — completely unbeknown to those close to the 13 - year - old boy in that drama . man , especially our young man , be spend less time outside and less time meet people and communicate in person — all thing that make we far happy and healthy . they be often sit alone for hour be bombard with algorithm show unrealistic representation of life , or communicate through anonymous group chat . research show that self - harm content have sometimes be allow to flourish on social medium by company fail to remove explicit image and encourage those engage with such content to befriend one another . the arrival of smartphone have take place in parallel with sharp rise in depression and anxiety in our young people . of particular concern be the impact that mobile phone have on our young people . the average 12 - year - old now spend 29 hour a week on their phone — equivalent to do a part - time job . I commend my hon . friend for secure the debate and for speak so powerfully . do he agree that we must also consider the employment - relate , sectoral issue in tackle male suicide ? absolutely , and my hon . friend have do so much admirable work in this area , long before my time in the House , so I can only learn from she . one point about suicide and male suicide be that an array of policy issue feed into it . this should not be a policy concern for the Government in silo ; it should be part of every policy area , and every Department should have those concern about mental health and suicide protection at its heart . I be talk about mobile phone and the effect they have have . since 2010 , the average time that teen spend with friend each day have fall by 65 % . I applaud recent Government announcement about review those policy area , but I urge they to grasp the nettle when it come to technology , phone , young people and mental health . in a decade ' s time I believe we will wonder why we do not do so far soon . I thank the hon . member for secure this debate . I be work closely with he on the Mental Health Bill . do he agree that one issue for family who be worried about their loved one be that when they be over the age of 18 , there can be barrier in law in term of the presumption of capacity and the Mental Capacity Act 2005 when it come to raise the alarm with public authority ? I be grateful to the hon . member , who have a remarkable ability to bring that important issue into any debate or intervention he make . he be the most vociferous campaigner on that cause . I support he in that , and I know the Minister will also be listen . I want to finish with the action I will take as the local MP . first , I pledge to continue to support the brilliant service we already have . I remember attend my first Andy ' s Man Club in Maltby during the general election campaign . I must admit I be slightly cynical . I have see the marketing , but question how effective or useful that informal meeting would be . I be blow away . over the course of a few hour , a group of bloke speak about their week , and their problem , over a cup of tea . some of the chat be mundane : they be find their work more boring , or they have have a good weekend with the family . other be deal with the most impossible trauma that put all else — in particular my election campaign — into stark perspective . afterwards , everyone walk away ready to face the week , however big the challenge ahead . I have since meet so many man who use that service . one of the first thing I do once elect be to bring Andy ' s Man Club to Parliament . I promise to continue to champion its work , and the work of many other . I also regularly meet local health practitioner in Rotherham to hear their strategy to bring down the rate of man end their own life locally . the work of Rotherham health and wellbeing board , and the South Yorkshire integrate care system be hugely commendable , not least the emphasis on improve datum and evidence to ensure effective and timely intervention , and provide tailor , targeted support to priority group and effective bereavement support to those affect by man take their own life . those plan sit within strategy to tackle loneliness , health inequality and domestic abuse . I have commit to hold regular meeting with all GP practice in my constituency , and other support group , to help tackle male suicide . we will hear from the Minister shortly about the Government ' s national effort , and from conversation with he I have no doubt that he grasp the severity of this crisis and the urgency with which this Government must confront it . rest assure , I will be challenge the Government every step of the way to be ambitious in this agenda , and to ensure that policy will work for every town and village in Rotherham . locally , I will be set up my Rotherham taskforce to hold authority to account , work with man and woman who be on the front line confront this issue . we will lead the ongoing awareness campaign and ensure that professional , and local and national Government , treat this issue with the seriousness it deserve . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak about this important issue , and I hope that by do so we begin more conversation across our borough . together , we can bring about meaningful change , and save life . rise — I believe the hon . Lady have permission from the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) to make a brief contribution . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . we have hear that male mental health be an issue that deserve our full attention . in my constituency of Portsmouth , suicide be the lead cause of death among male age between 20 to 49 . each year 24 people in Portsmouth take their own life , and 78 % of they be man . compare with the national average , Portsmouth have high rate of divorce , homelessness and alcohol - relate admission , which be all contribute factor to poor mental health and suicide . despite those heartbreaking statistic , we lack enough dedicated local charity . national charity such as the Samaritans and Andy ' s Man Club provide critical support but lack local initiative . however , group such as SPEAK and Man Mind , and fabulous individual , help man to have space to talk and mental health walk . however , those alone be not enough and we need more funding . my constituency be home to many veteran , a group in dire need of improved mental health support . yet in report on suicide prevention action from 2022 to 2025 , veteran be not even list as a high - risk group . that be unacceptable . Portsmouth have a proud military history and we must do what we can . the construction industry be the backbone of our nation , and suicide rate in that group be four time high than the national average . one of the big barrier to male mental health support be stigma and the culture of silence . as the mum of three lad , or should I say young man , it be heartbreaking for I to know that they have have first - hand experience in their friendship group of male suicide . fortunately , not all those attempt be successful , but some be . that have have a lasting impact on the young man ' s outlook and their friendship , and have be devastating for those around they . it be time for the Government to take bold step to tackle the crisis . we need target funding for male mental health service , in combination with strong support for at - risk group , whether they be veteran , construction worker or young man . we must create safe space for man to open up , and we must ensure that no man feel that suicide be his only option , because it be not . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) for secure this debate and for raise the extremely serious issue of male suicide . I also congratulate he on obtain his first Adjournment debate . I be sure that it will not be the last . he be a doughty campaigner for his constituent . I thank other member for their valuable contribution , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , who make a powerful speech . I offer my deep condolence to those who have be tragically bereave by suicide . man tend to seek help for their mental health less than woman . as my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley say , man be also more likely to die by suicide , account for three out of four suicide . rate in Rother Valley sadly reflect that statistic . today , mental ill health be on the rise , and the shocking fact be that suicide be the big killer for man under 50 . just as we be determined to end the injustice that woman face in healthcare , we will not shy away from the need to focus on man ' s health too . that be why the Government will publish a man ' s health strategy to tackle those problem head - on . in November , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care bring together lead campaigner , expert and the Premier League to gather idea and inform our strategy and our 10 - year health plan . we take suicide prevention extremely seriously , because every suicide be a tragedy that have a devastating and enduring impact on family , friend and community . with that in mind , I would like to express my gratitude for the hard work and dedication of local frontline service , include the voluntary sector , which play such a vital role in support people who experience suicidal thought or contemplate take their own life . such organisation include Andy ' s Man Club , Rotherham Samaritans and James ' Place , to name just a few . the cross - sector suicide prevention strategy for England , which be publish in 2023 , have make some progress , and we be work closely with local authority , health system and our partner in the voluntary community to see that progress through . the strategy identify middle - aged man as a priority group for targeted support at a national level . it rightly focus on key driver that we know can affect man ' s life , such as gambling , financial difficulty and substance misuse . Rotherham council have develop a three - year plan for suicide prevention and self - harm , which I understand be currently out for consultation with local partner . I commend the council and all local partner involve in the development of the plan . I hope that it will provide a strong foundation for a new partnership between local government and national Government , because people in my hon . friend ' s constituency deserve backing at every level . my hon . friend raise the shocking issue of young man take their own life as a result of problem gambling . the NHS have expand support for those who need help to overcome gambling addiction . individual can self - refer to specialist gambling clinic in England , where they can be support by psychiatrist . our suicide prevention strategy for England identify gambling as a common risk factor and list action to reduce suicide as a result of gambling . we will explore opportunity to go far to support people with gambling addiction . it can be hard for a young man in today ' s society , particularly for boy in the most deprived area of England , who be expect to live almost 10 year less than those in the wealthy area . we be committed to improve the nation ' s mental health service to ensure that individual can get the support they need when they need it . we be recruit 8 , 500 new mental health worker , who will be train to support people at risk of suicide . we be also committed to improve the support available to those experience a mental health crisis . this year , the Government be provide £ 26 million in capital investment to open new mental health crisis centre , reduce pressure on busy A & E service and ensure that people have the support they need when and where they need it . these new centre will include crisis house , provide overnight accommodation , sanctuary and safe haven , calm environment for people to visit during the day and mental health - specific space in or adjacent to A & E department . I be also grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley for raise the important issue of technology , which can have a profoundly damaging effect . we should all be concern about the widespread availability of harmful content online that promote suicide and self - harm and can be easily access by people who may be vulnerable . the suicide prevention strategy for England identify online safety as a priority area for action across Government . we be work closely with our colleague at the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology in this area , include to deliver the commitment in the strategy and to look at what else can be do to address online harm , include harmful content share on pro - suicide website and forum . there be still uncertainty about the relationship between screen time , social medium use and child development . however , I look forward to see the result of DSIT ' s research into the impact of smartphone on child , which be due to be publish in May this year . our current focus be on keep young people safe while also benefit from the late technology . by the summer , robust new protection for child will be in force through the Online Safety Act 2023 to protect they from harmful content and ensure that they have an age - appropriate experience online . alongside get those law in place , we be commit to build the evidence base to inform future action to protect young people online . it be not only the danger of technology that be a concern for young people . young people present unique challenge , and early intervention be vital if we want to stop child and young people from reach crisis point today or develop mental health issue in the long term . school and college play an important role in that early support , which be why we be provide access to a mental health professional for every school . we know that mental health support team , such as the with I in Mind team base in Doncaster and Rotherham , help to meet the mental health need of child and young people in education setting . we be also committed to roll out open access Young Futures hub in community . this national network be expect to bring local service together and deliver support for young people face mental health challenge . the Department for Education be also review the relationship , sex and health education statutory guidance , and the Secretary of State for Education be clear that child ' s wellbee should be at the heart of it . the DFE will look carefully at the consultation response , consider relevant evidence and talk to partner , include on mental wellbeing and suicide prevention , before set out next step and engage with wide expert . as part of this process , the DFE will explore whether additional content be require , include on suicide and self - harm . mental health be , and remain , a priority for the NHS . it be back by the mental health investment standard , which continue in 2025 - 26 to ensure that mental health funding be ringfence to support delivery of our commitment , include those outline in the NHS planning guidance . the Government have a statutory requirement to publish an annual statement set out expectation for NHS mental health spending before the next financial year begin . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will publish that statement in due course . I will end with a call to action . suicide be everyone ' s business ; when we improve man ' s health , the benefit can ripple through family , community , society and the economy . when we strive to improve man ' s health , it will not just transform the life of boy and man , but those of their wife , mother , sister , partner , mate , neighbour , child , teacher and doctor . that be why I strongly encourage all the man listen to this debate to go to the Change NHS online portal , to give their view on how to build an nhs that be fit for the future through our 10 - year health plan . together , we will transform healthcare for man in the Rother valley , in the north of England , and across our country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .