Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — unemployment Trends what assessment she have make of trend in the level of unemployment . the unemployment rate be 4 . 7 % — well below the historic high of 11 . 9 % in 1984 — but no one should ever be complacent about unemployment , especially consider the significant jump in economic inactivity under the Tories . that be why I be pleased to tell the House that employment be up by 725 , 000 , to 75 . 3 % , since July 2024 and inactivity be down by more than the rise in unemployment — a reduction of 400 , 000 . on the House of Commons dashboard , the datum for my constituency show that universal credit claim increase dramatically by 20 % in just one month . claimant increase by over 2 , 000 — from 10 , 344 to 12 , 415 — from May to June this year . give this recent increase in economic inactivity , what evidence do the Minister have that the Government ' s employment support programme be successfully move people from out - of - work benefit into sustained employment ? the Conservative Government unify in - work and out - of - work benefit , so universal credit be also an in - work benefit . as I mention some moment ago , the legacy of the Tories on economic inactivity be now see a welcome reversal , with economic inactivity down by 400 , 000 . poverty Reduction what step she be take to reduce the number of child in poverty in Congleton constituency . as my hon . friend know well , improved employment be at the heart of our approach to child poverty , and that be why reduction in economic inactivity and improvement in employment will be part of our child poverty strategy that be to be publish very soon . do the Minister accept that the Government ' s increase in national insurance contribution have have a negative impact on employment in community such as ours ? Cumbria Tourism assess that 37 % of its business have cut staff as a consequence and 33 % be freeze recruitment . be it possible that the Government will get less from this tax rise than they expect , and that in do this they be do grave harm to the cumbrian tourism economy and many other part of our economy ? I speak to many business , and since come into office , the Secretary of State and I have totally change our approach with employer . that new approach include a partnership with UK Hospitality , provide specific employment support to get into hospitality , and a hospitality passport so that people can evidence their qualification , which we and UK Hospitality believe can help those people who really need a chance in life to get a good start in the hospitality sector . after visit business in Newport East this summer , I know that there be a high demand for company — include Thames Valley Construction , which I visit — to train more construction worker locally , and I be pleased to see the Government make the announcement in the summer on training 40 , 000 more people . can minister tell I what conversation they be have with the Welsh Government on work together to do this ? we will not build the much - need 1 . 5 million home without bring people into the construction sector . that be why , as part of our new approach for employer , we have partner with the construction sector and set up specific scheme with they . we be also talk directly across Whitehall with other Government Departments and with the sector about move people into great job in construction . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . it be good to see you back after the summer recess . the hon . Lady can fling around the stat all she like , but the fact be clear and bleak . under her watch , youth unemployment have go up ; nearly a million young people , and rise , be not in work or education , include over 40 , 000 more young woman . a generation of brilliant young people be go on to benefit , rather than into work . the Government ' s job tax and their unemployment right Bill be guarantee to reduce opportunity for young people . we have have the winter fuel u - turn and the welfare u - turn ; why not a u - turn to help young people ? the damage be do to the come generation under the Tories . we fail the pandemic generation , who put a shift in — they stay at home and give up their social life to save old love one . I could talk at length about our youth guarantee , our trailblazer and the work we be do to expand youth hub , but actually , it stick in my craw to hear the Conservatives , who fail this generation , harp on about it from that Dispatch Box . support Young People into training : Hexham what step she be take to support young people into training in Hexham constituency . this Labour Government believe that every young person should be able to fulfil their potential . unlike Conservative Members , we will not stand by while almost 1 million young people be not in education , employment or training . our get Britain work trailblazer in the north - east be already help young and neurodivergent people with support work and training placement , include in Hexham . the local jobcentre be also work with Newcastle United Foundation to help young people build their confidence and develop their skill so that they and our country can look forward to a bright future . for too long , previous government do not take into account the reality of life in community across my constituency , which be incredibly sparsely populated and quite rural . the youth guarantee can and will make a considerable difference in community all across it , from the Tyne Valley all the way out to the north Tyne and into Callerton and Throckley , too . will the Secretary of State work with I to ensure that we continue to support young people in all those different , disparate community to access the skill and opportunity they deserve ? my hon . friend be right that people have different need in different part of the country . we need to tailor employment support to the need of individual , so alongside measure like our youth guarantee , we be overhaul our jobcentre to provide that more personalised support and introduce measure such as mobile jobcentre to provide well help in rural area . neet : Barrow and Furness what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Barrow and Furness constituency . give the significant investment , the DWP have partner with BAE and the nuclear sector to promote a variety of career pathway , include role across its supply chain . we be also work within BAE ' s new " the Bridge " hub in Barrow — a collaborative space offer employment advice and support from BAE Systems and a range of local employer and organisation to connect talent with locally base job . far , in Barrow , our youth hub be run in partnership with Brathay Trust and Project John , support young people holistically to meet employer and develop their talent . I have be impress by the work be do in Drop Zone in my constituency . it run a variety of project for young people , include specialised education for those with additional need , mental health support , and support for the transition back into education , employment and training . but young people in Barrow and Furness still face difficult challenge from a long legacy of underfunding . the youth trailblazer scheme be already make a difference in some constituency after just a few month . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can tailor the scheme to specifically target young people in Barrow and Furness ? Barrow have unique circumstance , challenge and opportunity , and it be important that all part of the Government address those unique opportunity and challenge in Barrow . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to far discuss what we be already do and what more we can go on to do to ensure that young people in Barrow have the good possible chance in life . Health and Disability benefit : Spending Estimate what estimate she have make of the level of spending on health and disability benefit by 2030 . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast in March that incapacity and disability benefit spending would be £ 90 . 7 billion in 2029 - 30 . that figure will be update at the Budget . well employment support and remove perverse work incentive in universal credit be the key to get more people into work . just two month ago , the Secretary of State be leave humiliate after be force to significantly water down her botched welfare Bill . if the Government have press ahead with the Bill as originally draft , how much less would taxpayer be spend on benefit by 2030 ? as I have say , the OBR will update its forecast at the time of the Budget . we inherit a terrible situation , with record number of economically inactive people . economic inactivity be down since the election , and employment be up . those development have be encouraging , but our reform will go much far . the £ 3 . 8 billion that we be invest in employment support for people out of work on health and disability ground — the big package ever — will be key . do the Minister agree that we must invest in community mental health service if we be to reduce spending on mental health disability ? I very much welcome the NHS 10 - year plan publish by our right hon . friend the Health Secretary , which give a new priority and commitment to mental health support . I agree with my hon . friend that that be an important part of tackle the problem that we need to resolve . I call the shadow Minister . it be good to see the Minister back after the break , but I be sorry to hear that there be still no plan to reduce spending on personal independence payment . he have say that he be collaborate with people who would not be work with he on his review if there be to be any reduction in the level of benefit or eligibility . give that veto on cut to PIP , I implore he again to consider the benefit to which PIP be a gateway , such as Motability , disability premium , council tax discount and blue badge . will he promise at least that those entitlement could come down ? we have make it clear that we will co - produce our review of the PIP assessment with disabled people and representative of disability organisation . the review will cover the assessment for the mobility component , which lead on to the Motability scheme , and other entitlement to which PIP be a gateway . but with no possibility of any of those entitlement come down or any of the spending be reduce ? we have 1 . 25 million foreign national claim universal credit , most of whom be not in employment . I hope that the Minister do not plan to co - produce his plan with foreign national — although , know labour lawyer , I expect they will say that the european convention on human right demand that they do just that . do he think that subsidise more and more foreign national be what the british social security system be for ? if not , will he restrict sickness benefit to british national only , as we have argue for ? it be crucial that we have a fair system . we be review universal credit at the moment , consider problem such as the five - week wait that be insert when universal credit be introduce and change to ensure that universal credit effectively tackle poverty and do the job that we need it to do . Fairness will be at the heart of the system . neet : Croydon East what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Croydon East constituency . in Croydon East , young people age 18 to 21 will be help by the youth guarantee trailblazer be deliver by the Greater London Authority . it will strengthen early identification and outreach to engage young londoner who be not , or risk not be , in employment , education or training , by link they to enhanced support , employment and education opportunity and the essential service that they need . I be glad that the DWP will continue to support community in Croydon East by host an information stall at my hon . friend ' s upcoming advice fair in New Addington . Croydon be London ' s young borough . give that 6 . 6 % of people age 16 to 24 in my Croydon East constituency claim out - of - work benefit , support young people into work , and break down barrier to opportunity , be vital . will the Minister give a little more detail about the additional funding for the London youth guarantee trailblazer , and will she outline how that will help Croydon ' s young people into work ? I look forward to have the DWP with we in New Addington . I will pass on my hon . friend ' s comment to my colleague in Croydon , who be keen to work with she and the other mps there . in the summer , the Secretary of State announce further funding of £ 45 million for our eight youth guarantee trailblazer . that will ensure that in London , as in the rest of the country , our young people get the choice and chance that they deserve . Welfare Fraud what step she be take to help tackle fraud in the welfare system . the Government have commit to significant measure to counter welfare fraud , error and debt . this be the big package of such measure in recent history , and the Office for Budget Responsibility have estimate that it will deliver an additional £ 9 . 6 billion of saving over the next five year . the package be underpin by our Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill , which contain a range of new power to enable we to keep pace with offender who exploit the social security system . I think we can all agree that fraud strike at the heart of the system , kick away its underpinning . I hope that the Government will undertake a zero - tolerance approach , unlike in Scotland , where we recently hear that £ 36 million of benefit money pay out in error be now not to be recover . do the Minister agree that that be deeply unfair to taxpayer ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I to encroach on what be legitimately policy question for the Scottish Government . the policy of this Government be clear and set out in the Bill , but I be grateful to the Cabinet Secretary for Social Justice for continue to work with I constructively to make the Bill as workable as possible , with alignment where possible , such that if we end up diverge we be still able to ensure that this Parliament do everything it can , and the Scottish Government do everything they choose to do , to bear down on fraud and error . do the Minister share my surprise that a Member of the party responsible for more than a decade of rise poverty , record benefit delay , and billion lose to fraud and error be now suddenly concerned about tackle that ? across the House , while we recognise the need to tackle fraud in our welfare system , we should also recognise the huge issue with tax avoidance and evasion — as recently highlight by the Public Accounts Committee — which require significant attention . I very much agree with my hon . friend . this Government be determined to bear down on tax evasion with 5 , 000 additional investigator . wherever we see people rip off the public purse , whether that be defraud the Department for Work and Pensions or abuse the tax system , we be determined to bear down on they , and that be what we will do . PIP Application Process what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the personal independence payment application process . the PIP application process be outdate and can be very difficult to navigate . the health transformation programme will deliver radical improvement and much well efficiency . in my constituency , I be contact by a woman who have suffer two stroke , result in permanent right - side paralysis and ongoing mobility difficulty . despite her condition be permanent , she have have to undergo reassessment for PIP and have appeal for it to be reinstate . I welcome the Government change the reassessment requirement for people with long - term health condition . will the Minister clarify what step the Government be take to reduce the stress and difficulty of the PIP application process for people with those serious health condition ? the health transformation programme that I mention will allow the introduction of a modern digital service , which be certainly not how the exist arrangement could be characterise . it be a big job — the programme will run until 2029 — but the outcome from it will be a process that be simple and easy to understand , which I hope will reduce the stress to which the hon . Member have rightly draw attention , with short decision time . over the summer , I have be do a deep dive into child with special educational need and disability , not least the transition point between education and work . as part of the timms review — the Minister ' s own review — will he ensure that that interface be look at , so that there be a smooth transition for young people , as oppose to the cliff edge that many of they face when make the transition into work ? the review will look specifically at the PIP assessment , but one proposal in our Green Paper publish early this year be increase the age of transition from DLA to PIP from 16 to 18 . I think that that change could assist with the concern express by my hon . friend . we be look at the consultation response that we have receive . Poverty Reduction what discussion she have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on reduce poverty . we be determined to drive down child poverty in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and right across Scotland and the rest of the UK . our child poverty strategy will look at every lever at our disposal to drive up family income , to drive down family cost and to give every child the good start in life . I discuss such issue regularly with the Chancellor and Ministers across Government , because we will leave no stone unturned to ensure that every child can fulfil their potential — they deserve it and our country need it . two million pensioner in the UK be in poverty , and the british state pension be among the bad in north - west Europe . during the independence referendum , Better Together claim that our pension be more affordable when Scotland be part of the UK . eleven year on , will the Minister tell I exactly what the Union be do for scottish pensioner , other than impoverish they ? invest an additional £ 31 billion in the triple lock over this Parliament be deliver huge benefit to pensioner in Scotland , as be our measure to drive up the uptake of pension credit in order to help the very poor pensioner ; our measure to stabilise the economy ; and our investment in the NHS , on which many pensioner rely . I be proud of the action that we be take . give that this Government have agree and be give Scotland its big ever funding settlement , the hon . Gentleman should ask some challenging question of his government , to ensure that they deliver for Scotland ' s pensioner , too . last year , a staggering one in four kid in Derby live in poverty . our local charity , such as the Derby Food 4 Thought Alliance , do amazing work ; last year , they hand out 20 , 000 food parcel . will the Secretary of State ensure that the upcoming child poverty strategy address the root cause of child food poverty , so that parent be not leave struggle to put tea on the table ? I understand very well the issue that my hon . friend raise . as a former chair of Feeding Leicester , the programme to end hunger in my city , I see only too clearly the link between poverty and dependence on emergency food parcel . I be very proud that we have already slash deduction in universal credit and extend the crisis and resilience fund , provide it with its first three - year funding settlement . there be much more to do . we want to make sure that child have hungry mind , not hungry belly , and we be determined to deliver that . the good way to reduce poverty be for people to be in work , but as a result of this Government ' s damage economic policy , we have see youth unemployment rise by 6 % since the general election . what representation will the Secretary of State make to the Chancellor ahead of the Budget to ensure that more damage be not do ? the Labour party believe that everybody who can work must work . the hon . Gentleman should look at his own party ' s record : progress on the disability employment gap and the lone parent employment rate stall under its watch , and economic inactivity rise . we be the only country in the G7 whose employment rate have not get back to pre - pandemic level . we be overhaul our employment system to help more people into work , and to get on in work . I be proud of our record ; maybe he should look at his own . tackle poverty should be a key priority of any Government who wish to see their people thrive . the Equality Act 2010 include a socioeconomic duty on all public body to address inequality " when make strategic decision " . when will that duty be enact in England ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . throughout its work , the DWP be already look at how to narrow the gap between different part of the country and different group of people . we have set our jobcentre and employment system new target for reduce those gap , and we be take cross - Government action to tackle child poverty . we have achieve a lot . there be a lot more to do , but this Government , unlike Opposition Members , have make tackle poverty an absolute priority . our child poverty strategy be come out in the autumn , so I ask hon . member to watch this space . Universal Credit : 16 to 24 - year - old what estimate she have make of the number of 16 to 24 - year - old receive universal credit . the late provisional statistic , take from Stat - Xplore , show that in July 2025 , there be 768 , 000 people age 16 to 24 on universal credit . about a quarter of those young people — around 180 , 000 — be on universal credit and in work . accord to the Library , in my constituency , the claimant count among those age 16 to 24 have rise by 46 % ; that be one of the large percentage increase in the country . conservative Members know that the Government have a moral duty not to let our young people learn that a life of benefit be the life for they , so how do the Minister explain that increase ? what will she do ? I must remind Conservative Members again that it be their party that introduce universal credit , remove the distinction between out - of - work benefit and in - work benefit . for three quarter of young people who be out of work and on universal credit , our guarantee for young people will make sure that they get a second chance in life , after they be utterly fail during the pandemic by the conservative party . datum sharing : Local Authorities what step she be take to improve data sharing between her Department and local authority . the Department continue to provide a broad range of datum to local authority to enable fast , accurate assessment for service , include blue badge and free school meal . look ahead , the Department be commit to expand real - time datum sharing in critical area , such as housing benefit and care home , while also test innovative model such as the WorkWell scheme , which bring together local and central service to deliver more join - up support for citizen . in Warrington South , too many child entitle to free school meal be miss out because of avoidable administrative barrier . no child should have to sit in a classroom hungry ; every child deserve a full stomach and a fair chance . a simple change would make a big difference and ensure that every eligible child get the support that they be entitle to . it would ease pressure on family , help to reduce child poverty , and give school confidence that pupil be ready to learn . will the Minister commit to strengthen datum share with not only local authority , but the Department for Education , so that automatic enrolment for free school meal can be introduce ? my hon . friend be entirely right to raise this issue . we will look at that , work closely with the Department for Education , as part of the child poverty strategy . we of course share her ambition to ensure that family can claim the support that they need . our expansion of free school meal to all child in household claim universal credit will make it much easy for parent to know if they be eligible , as well as lift some 100 , 000 child out of poverty . I thank the Minister for his reply ; as always , he be very positive in his response . he refer to the anti - poverty strategy . what discussion have he have about the anti - poverty strategy for we in Northern Ireland ? level of poverty and mental health issue have rise dramatically , and young people in particular be under great pressure . the Minister be always compassionate and understanding ; what be he do in relation to the Northern Ireland Assembly to make thing well for we as well ? the hon . Gentleman will understand that we want this strategy to be for England , Wales , Scotland and , of course , Northern Ireland . he will be reassure to learn that those lead on the child poverty strategy have hold a number of meeting with Ministers in Northern Ireland to ensure that its specific need be take into consideration . neet : young People what step be she take to support young people into employment , education or training in Bristol North East constituency . one in eight young people be not in education , employment or training . that be bad for they , bad for business and bad for our country as a whole . our west of England youth guarantee trailblazer , which cover my hon . friend ' s constituency , be help to remove barrier to work for young people , include by provide free bus travel for participant and connect young people with skill support . last month , I announce an additional £ 45 million to extend our youth guarantee trailblazer , so that we can guarantee that all young people be earn or learn . that be fantastic to hear . will the Secretary of State set out the practical impact of the west of England youth guarantee trailblazer so far ? assume that it be positive , will she confirm plan to back it up with more investment , in order to support our young people in the Bristol area ? I be really proud of the work be lead in the west of England — include by our fantastic Mayor , Helen Godwin — to help more young people . the trailblazer be engage much more deeply with employer — it have engage over 135 of they . it be help to enrol young people on employability course and give they more work placement , give they the skill and experience they need . as my hon . friend know , young people say that they need a job to gain experience , but in order to get the job , they need that experience . we be try to turn that around . we have announce additional funding of up to another £ 5 million for that west of England youth guarantee trailblazer . a lot have be do , but there be a lot more to do . Pension Credit Uptake what step she be take to increase the uptake of pension credit . the Government be commit to ensure that all pensioner receive the support to which they be entitle . that be why we have be run the big ever pension credit take - up campaign . we plan to continue promotional activity from September through to the end of this financial year , with the focus not just on eligible pensioner but on their friend and family too . early this year , a constituent of mine in Edinburgh West contact I about the delay she have face in get the pension credit she be entitle to . she apply in September last year and be tell that she would receive it in November , but it be March before she get her pension credit award . the delay mean that she go without extra support just when she lose her winter fuel allowance , so what step will the Minister take to cut those delay and stop more vulnerable pensioner from be leave cold this winter ? I hope the hon . Member will write to I with the detail of the case she raise . on the more general picture , I can reassure she that we now have a low backlog of pension credit case to be process than we inherit from the last government , despite the record number of claim that have come through . boot have be a significant employer in my constituency since 1927 , and many of my constituent have be proud to work for it . however , those close to claim their pension have be advise that they will be unable to withdraw their pension at an unreduced rate at the age of 60 , contrary to what they be lead to believe . do the Minister recognise the frustration that many of the Boots pensioner feel , and do he agree that the Pensions Ombudsman should progress swiftly with its process ? my hon . friend have raise this matter with I before , and the one thing I can confirm be that she be a powerful advocate for her constituent on this very important issue for they . as she know , I can not comment on individual case — particularly as the matter be now with the Pensions Ombudsman — but more generally , it be important that promise make to pensioner about their pension be live up to . make sure that happen be exactly why the Pensions Ombudsman exist . I call the shadow Minister . thank to our conservative winter fuel payment campaign , thousand of pensioner have sign up to pension credit , and million more pensioner will receive winter fuel allowance , now that the Labour party have admit that its policy on winter fuel payment be wrong . however , the Social Security Advisory Committee recently conclude that the Government ' s winter fuel plan fall short of deliver their objective of fairness , administrative simplicity and target support . it seem that the Government have prioritise civil service bureaucracy over help frozen pensioner . do the Minister agree with the Social Security Advisory Committee ' s conclusion about their policy ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and I congratulate member on all side of this House who have run campaign to drive up pension credit uptake . that be very important , and it be why we have see 60 , 000 extra award over the course of the year to July 2025 compare with the previous year . that work , which be very welcome , have be do by not just member but civil society organisation and local authority . on the point that the hon . Member raise about the process for winter fuel payment this winter and go forward , I do not agree with the characterisation he choose to present . particularly on the tax side , the process will be automatic . nobody will be bring into tax or self - assessment purely because of that change ; the vast majority of people will have their winter fuel payment automatically recoup through the pay - as - you - earn system ; and anyone who want to can opt out . I remind member that the deadline for that be 15 September . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . around a year ago , the Labour Government inherit from the previous Conservative Government around 3 million pensioner in poverty . sadly , last winter ' s cut to the winter fuel payment see many pensioner push into hardship . in the light of winter fuel price hike , will the Minister reconsider the Government ' s proposal and ensure that money be pay to pensioner who miss out on the winter fuel payment last winter ? I thank the hon . member for his question , but would gently say that every time he oppose every single tax rise or any difficult choice in this House , he be say that the Liberal Democrats be not a party that could deliver on commitment , for example , to the triple lock , which will increase in cost , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State mention early , by £ 31 billion by the end of this Parliament . there be thing call " choice " , which be necessary if we be to provide for our top priority — and for Labour Members , the top priority , when it come to pensioner , be make sure that we can increase the state pension , the bedrock of most pensioner ' living standard , and save the NHS , and that be exactly what we will continue to do . Remote PIP Assessments if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of increase the number of remote personal independence payment assessment on claimant in West Dorset constituency . we will increase the number of face - to - face , rather than remote , PIP assessment , and will increase the number of health professional in assessment centre in order to deliver that . I think the hon . Gentleman will agree , however , that it be important to keep telephone or video alternative for those who need they . many West Dorset constituent have write to I with deep anxiety about the assessment for personal independence payment , and especially the use of remote assessment . one constituent , despite previously be award enhance PIP , have endure month of repeat phone assessment , which have trigger severe panic attack and high blood pressure , and cause lasting psychological harm . the Secretary of State have give I a commitment to move away from phone - base assessment , so what additional resource will be make available to support the roll - out of more face - to - face assessment in West Dorset ? there be a switch to remote assessment in the pandemic , for obvious reason , but my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have make the point repeatedly that , as be say in the " pathway to work " Green Paper , we want to move sharply back to face - to - face , while keep alternative for those who need they . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will have speak to people for whom the prospect of go to an assessment centre provoke the kind of anxiety that his constituent experience as a result of a telephone call . we be speak to the assessment provider , and we have already increase the proportion of face - to - face assessment . that work will continue . neet : young People what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Southend East and Rochford constituency . what step she be take to support young people into employment , education or training in Southend West and Leigh constituency . with permission , I will answer these question together , as they be both about the great city of Southend . colleague in Southend jobcentre be work very hard with Southend young people to help they gain skill , experience and confidence . the team have launch a bespoke employability workshop design for young people , and recently deliver a regional work experience pilot for college student . they also work with our great partner , such as the King ' s Trust and FirstPoint Training , to provide placement and opportunity , and there be also the employer - lead Movement to work programme . young people across the UK who be not in education , employment or training be more than twice as likely to come from disadvantaged background . what step be the Minister take to ensure that support reach those who need it most ? the Secretary of State mention some moment ago that in everything we do in the Department for Work and Pensions , we be try to close the gap between those who have suffer disadvantage and those who have not . young people , especially those who have experience poverty , be vulnerable to mental ill health , and the pandemic generation deserve more support to get chance that they have miss . that be why we have a joint work and health unit with the Department of Health and Social Care . we also have many agreement across Whitehall relate to our net zero mission , as well as our investment in defence , to help employer recruit the next generation , whatever their background . in Southend West and Leigh , I will soon host a youth day , feature local star of " the Apprentice " Chisola Chitambala , who be now an apprenticeship coach , among other thing . do the Minister agree that early intervention , like this youth day , be really important to prevent young people from become another neet statistic ? I agree with my hon . friend , and congratulate he on his youth day and the work he be do on this kind of early intervention . the datum clearly show that if people get qualification , some work experience , and support for their health and support with other factor in life , that be very protective against be without work , education or training . we have to give a second chance to those who need one , and take step to prevent people from be in that situation in the first place . child in Poverty what step she be take to reduce the number of child in poverty in Leigh and Atherton constituency . it be a shameful legacy from the Conservatives that more than a third of child in my hon . friend ' s constituency be live in poverty accord to the Child Poverty Action Group , and we be determined to tackle that . we will be lift more than 100 , 000 child out of poverty by provide free school meal to all child whose family be on universal credit , benefit more than 7 , 300 child in Leigh and Atherton . we will also be help to feed they during the summer holiday by extend the holiday activity and food programme , alongside our fair repayment rate in universal credit and our crisis and resilience fund . we be help struggle family . there be much more we will do in our child poverty strategy this autumn , but we can and we be make a difference . I thank the Secretary of State wholeheartedly for that response , and I agree with she . because of the lack of action from the last government , 26 . 6 % of child in Leigh and Atherton be live in poverty . I welcome the measure that this Government be take , include the extension of free school meal , but more need to be do . can she reassure we that she be work hard on the child poverty strategy to ensure that it address the need of all child in poverty , include those with disability and special educational need , so that every child can reach their full potential ? we will absolutely do that . the child poverty taskforce , which include Ministers from across Government , have a specific session on child with disability and special educational need , include with family and the charity that fight so hard to deliver improvement . I be not a patient person , but I ask my hon . friend to wait until the child poverty strategy be publish in the autumn , because we believe that every child — no matter where they be bear or their ability or what their parent do — must be give an equal start in life . employment : Trailblazer Programme what step she be take to increase level of employment through the trailblazer programme to tackle economic activity . this Government be determined to get Britain work again . that be why we be invest £ 80 million in our trailblazer programme to drive down economic inactivity . we be overhaul our job centre to provide well , more personalise employment support . we be deliver a youth guarantee , so that every young person be earn or learn , and we be provide a record £ 3 . 8 billion to help sick and disabled people who can work to get into work . there be much furth to go , but we be already make a difference . I thank the Secretary of State for that response . a lot of disabled people in Swindon with long - term health condition tell I that they want to get to work , but be just simply not give the opportunity . what be this Government do to support those people to get dignified work ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , because he raise an important point that I do not want to let go , which be how many people with a long - term health condition or a disability be desperate to work . our own survey of people on sickness and disability benefit find that 200 , 000 people would work right now if they be give an opportunity . we need to give people help to tackle their underlie health condition , which we be do through our investment in the NHS . we need to encourage employer to do more to give opportunity to disabled people to work . above all , this Government be determined to meet our responsibility , with £ 3 . 8 billion invest into employment support for sick and disabled people — the big amount in a generation . I look forward to work with he and organisation in Swindon to make sure we get that support right locally . do the Secretary of State accept that the reason that unemployment be high today than the day she take office be the job tax , which increase employer ' cost by £ 25 billion ? what hope do her trailblazer programme have when the Chancellor be work against she ? I fundamentally disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s premise . economic inactivity be down by 400 , 000 because we be move more people from be out of work and not look for work to start to have to look for work . employment be up by 725 , 000 . we have create 380 , 000 job . I know there be more we need to do . we be work very closely with employer . we be overhaul what we be do . one of the thing that employer say to we be , " we do not want to tell our story to thousand of different job centre . " we be put in a single account manager and we be overhaul our support for employer . I would be happy to meet he and employer in his constituency to see what more we can do to support they , because we want to get Britain work and earn again . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . let I start by congratulate all the pupil who have receive their exam result over the last few week . have good qualification be essential in today ' s economy , and it be brilliant to see so many young people do so well . however , the number of young people not in education , employment or training be one of the big challenge face the country , and young people be much more likely to be neet if they lack basic skill . that be why I be so proud of the action that the Government be take to increase the number of youth apprenticeship , overhaul foundation apprenticeship and , above all , introduce a youth guarantee so that every young person be earn or learn . I hope you have a lovely recess , Mr Speaker . Harlow be full of fantastic school , and I see the potential of young people there every single day , but that potential be often overlook because of economic circumstance . will the Secretary of State explain how the new crisis and resilience fund will support the poor child in Harlow ? in the spending review we announce this first ever multi - year settlement for local support , replace the household support fund . the crisis and resilience fund will provide £ 1 billion every single year , and will give family emergency help if , for example , their white good break down or they need food urgently . however , we want to start shift it increasingly towards tackle the root cause of poverty , help people to become more financially resilient through the provision of debt advice . we recently hold a meeting with more than 600 stakeholder to discuss how we could achieve that shift , because we want to prevent people from fall into poverty and to give they the tool that they need to emerge from poverty themselves . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the right hon . Lady back after the summer . she say recently that it have be " a bumpy … few month " — an understatement , in my view . last time we stand here , she have just complete a rather humiliating climbdown on her welfare saving plan . she set out to save money , but end up spend it . you couldn ' t make it up , Mr Speaker , but here we be : the number of benefit claimant have hit a record high ; the sickness benefit bill be head up and up ; and still the right hon . Lady have Back Benchers and Cabinet colleague call for even more spending on welfare . the Chancellor be busy do her sum in advance of the Budget , so can the right hon . Lady tell we how much lift the two - child benefit cap will cost ? I be not often call understate , but I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . welfare reform be always difficult because it involve real people and real life , and it be a complicated and personal issue . however , we be invest £ 3 . 8 billion in employment support to help sick and disabled people into work , we be introduce the first ever right to try work , and we be deal fundamentally with the perverse incentive leave by the conservative party which encourage people to define themselves as incapable of work . we be address that by raise the standard allowance of universal credit and halve the health top - up for new claim . there be much more that we need to do , and we will be publish our strategy to deal with child poverty in the autumn , but I be proud to say that the last Labour Government lift 600 , 000 child out of poverty , while the hon . Lady ' s party plunge 900 , 000 child into poverty . we will take action , and , as I say early , the hon . Lady should watch this space . I ask the right hon . Lady a simple question , but I fear that she do not know the answer ; she certainly do not reply to it . what be clear be that Labour want to spend more on welfare . so do the Liberal Democrats , and so do Reform . only one party here be tell the truth about the welfare bill : the country can not afford it . may I urge the right hon . Lady to take up my proposal ? will she stop give people benefit for common mental health problem such as anxiety and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , and give they help instead ? will she stop give personal independence payment to foreign citizen who have not pay into our system and free car to people who do not need they ? will she stop people scamme the benefit system over the phone and on the internet ? will she keep the two - child benefit cap , and get the benefit bill under control ? order . can I just say that we be on topical ? it be your own member who be not go to get in . the conservative party fail on welfare because it fail on work . the reason why we inherit such a dire situation with sickness and disability benefit be that the Conservatives fail to get people into work . we be turn that around , and it be about time the hon . Lady and Opposition Members put forward a proper plan of action that actually get people into work . we believe in work ; it be a pity the conservative party do not . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . the number of young NEET people be often a reflection of a range of different factor : poverty , poor mental health service , lack of access to support service , and inadequate transport , SEND and care service , especially in remote coastal area such as Camborne , Redruth and Hayle . can the Minister reassure the House and these young people that join - up , cross - departmental work group have be set up to tackle this issue head - on ? yes , that be exactly how we be work , and I thank my hon . friend for his question . our " get Britain Working " plan identify Cornwall as a rural industrial legacy employment area , and we specifically point out the lack of connectivity . that be why , when it come to our new jobcentre service , we be also trialle jobcentre on wheel : bus that can take support to where people be and which be design for rural area . they recently feature on " the One Show " . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Government be right to want to see more people with disability and long - term sickness get into work . sadly , this be use to justify the savage cut to benefit that be propose early this year . my colleague and I be hear report of cut to current award through Access to work , and to new payment , be do by the back door . can the Minister cast any light on whether guidance have be give to civil servant on such cut ? there have be no change at all to policy on access to work . as the hon . member know , we do consult , in the Green Paper early in the year , on reform to access to Work . there have be a big increase in demand for it , and reform be need . we be look at the consultation response at the moment . there may have be instance in the past where the publish guidance be not always properly apply . it be be apply now , and that may give rise to some of the issue that have be draw to his attention , but there have be no change at all in the policy . I warmly commend the locally lead £ 100 million Connect to work programme , which support those face complex barrier to employment to get into work and to stay in work . a constituent of mine , Charlie , have explain to I some of the barrier to work that he experience live with autism spectrum disorder and ADHD , but he be a dedicated and focused young man who be to be commend for want to be a useful member of society . what support will connect to Work , and other scheme like it , offer Charlie and other constituent of mine in Dartford ? we want to give people like Charlie the chance and choice in life that he deserve . our connect to work programme will do everything from help people access health treatment to provide work placement and build their confidence through training , skill — whatever meet their individual need . that be the key to this : an end to a one - size - fit - all tick - box approach , and tailor support for he . we be also work closely with employer so that they remove the barrier to work and can employ people with all the skill and talent that people like Charlie have . one of the main benefit of save into a private pension be the tax relief that people get from the Government , which be one of the smart way to save for later life . any move by this Government to cut pension tax relief will devastate savings rate and the adequacy of pension provision . I would hope that the Secretary of State know that , so can she assure I that she have make it clear that when the Chancellor be look to fill the fiscal black hole of her own making , she must not target pension ? the hon . Lady only have to wait till next week ' s Treasury question , when she could have ask her question , but she have the same answer . what we should do be look at the record of party and what they have do . when I look back over the last 14 year of Tory Budgets , I see a party — [ interruption . ] and the Lib Dems ; thank you for point that out . I have see party chop and change pension tax relief leave , right and centre , because they have no plan . those be the same Budgets that drive child poverty up and wage down . it be great to be back after take paternity leave , and thank you for your support , Mr Speaker . I welcome the Government ' s parental leave review , but currently partner only get unpaid time off work for two antenatal appointment . do my hon . friend agree that this be a gap , and can he confirm that the review be look at how we can well support parent at that crucial time ? I congratulate my hon . friend on the recent addition to his family . I hope he have a restful summer , although I doubt he do consider the likely lack of sleep . he be right to raise this issue . it be now past the date for the call for evidence , but if he want to write to I directly about that issue , I will ensure it be feed in . cruel cut to the winter fuel allowance by both this Labour Government and the SNP Government in Edinburgh leave thousand of pensioner cold in their home last winter . when will the Secretary of State apologise for the misery her Government have cause for vulnerable pensioner in the Scottish Borders and across the United Kingdom ? I thank the hon . member for his question . we discuss this issue at some length in the statement before the recess . he know that the priority for the Labour party have be to raise the state pension by commit to the triple lock throughout this Parliament at a cost of £ 31 billion a year . for the new state pension , that will mean an increase of £ 1 , 900 a year by the end of this Parliament . on winter fuel payment specifically — and I think this be the conservative party ' s position — most people think that we should not be pay hundred of pound to the very rich pensioner . we have listen to concern and raise the threshold , but it be important to maintain that principle . if the Conservatives ' position be now that they want a return to universal winter fuel payment , they need to have a word with the Leader of the Opposition , who have not support universal winter fuel payment or , indeed , a universal state pension . I be visit the jobcentre in Rugby next week , and I be look forward to hear more about its work with local business , and also with people with disability and special educational need , to get people back into work . will the Minister set out what further step we be take on that very important job for a Labour Government ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be glad he be visit Rugby jobcentre , and I encourage all member across the House to go to their local jobcentre , because their work coach have the most experience and knowledge about what we need to do to get people into work . we be create " jobcentre in your pocket " , so that everyone can have access to help 24 hour a day . let technology take the strain will mean that our work coach can do more of what they do good , which be give people — person to person — the confidence to take up life ' s chance . last week , Policy Exchange publish a very insightful report , " out of Control " , look at the pathway to benefit entitlement . it make this point : " fifty year ago , just one in 2 , 500 people be say to have autism ; today that have rise to one in 36 child " . will the ministerial team undertake to look at the implication for the Department of that definitional creep and the specific implication for benefit entitlement ? we have set up a panel of expert to advise we on how good to improve employment prospect for people with autism and neurodivergence . as the right hon . member know , we will be undertake a review of the PIP assessment , co - produce it with disabled people , so that we have a clear way forward for who should and who should not be entitle to the personal independence payment . can my hon . friend set out how this government be reform pension long term to help people in Bracknell Forest and across the country to save for their future ? I thank my hon . friend for his crucial question . that be exactly why we have revive the landmark pensions commission . we have to confront the reality that we be on track for tomorrow ' s pensioner to be poor than today ' s . auto - enrolment have be a huge success , with 88 % of eligible employee now save , but 45 % of working - age adult , include 3 million self - employ and one in four low earner , be currently save nothing . the commission will ensure that we build a pension system that be strong , fair and sustainable . the carer ' s allowance overpayment review be due to report in early summer . it be now 1 September . in recent week , I have become aware of a case where the DWP have inform somebody that they now owe it £ 18 , 000 . that be a scandal . when will the review report back ? we have receive the report from Liz Sayce , and I want to thank she very much for her review of earning - relate overpayment of carer ' s allowance . we be currently consider the finding . we be , as the hon . Lady know , make a number of change . we have increase the earning threshold for carer ' s allowance in a way that I think will help avoid these problem in the future . we be look at the possibility of a taper on carer ' s allowance . we will come forward , before very long at all , with both the report and the Government ' s response to it . as someone who proudly serve the trade union movement for two decade before enter this place , I warmly welcome the Government ' s improvement to worker ' right . will the Minister set out what step be be take to ensure that no one be leave behind in the vital reform to statutory sick pay ? I know that so many of my hon . friend will , like she , welcome the change we be make to statutory sick pay , which will improve eligibility for 1 . 3 million of the lowest - pay employee and remove the wait period . many of those who will benefit be low - pay woman . the removal of the wait period will mean that all employee receive at least £ 60 more at the start of their sickness absence compare to the current system , but we will continue to evaluate the measure as they be implement . Scotland be the only part of these island where child poverty be fall , as a result of the scottish child payment and the mitigation of the bedroom cap . when will the Labour Government move from empty word to actual action to take child out of poverty ? we be already extend free school meal to all family on universal credit . we have extend the holiday activity and food programme , so that we feed poor kid not just during school but in the holiday , too . we have introduce a new fair repayment rate in universal credit . we have make the first ever multi - year settlement for the crisis and resilience fund to help struggle family . we be introduce and roll out breakfast club . our child poverty strategy will be publish in the autumn . we be already take action to tackle poverty and we will do more . I say to the hon . Lady that the Scottish Government need to look at how they be spend the big ever funding settlement , give in the spending review , include on employment support , because help parent into good quality job be the long - term key to tackle poverty and inequality . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I be delighted to see the establishment of the disability advisory panel a week or so ago . [ interruption . ] I be so sorry , Mr Speaker ; I have a cold . how will the advisory panel link with the co - production in the timms review ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . we have announce that Zara Todd will be the chair of the Department ' s disability advisory panel . the panel be announce in the " get Britain work " White Paper last year . separately , we will set up a group to work with I on the review of the PIP assessment . I will , of course , talk to the disability advisory panel about the arrangement , but they will be separate structure . despite his new role in ride to the rescue of the Treasury , be the Pensions Minister still available to fulfil in principle the undertaking he give I before the recess to have a meeting about the plight of ExxonMobil pensioner and the difficulty in they get the discretionary surplus benefit to which I think they should be entitle ? absolutely . border and Asylum before we come to the statement by the Home Secretary , I should like to say something about the House ' s sub judice resolution . the case of Epping Forest district council v . Somani Hotels be still active and before the court , but because the case concern wide issue relate to the planning consent require for hotel to house asylum seeker , I have decide to grant a waiver so that member be free to refer to it in proceeding . however , I remind the House that there be other active criminal prosecution relate to disorder around the Bell hotel and elsewhere , as well as one prosecution of an asylum seeker for allege sexual offence . hon . member may refer to the general issue relate to asylum accommodation , but should avoid discuss any specific criminal case . with permission , I will update the House on the action we be take with France to strengthen our border security and the next step in our reform to the asylum system . the House will be aware that when we come into government , we find an asylum and immigration system in chaos : for seven year , small boat gang have be allow to embed their criminal trade along the french coast ; the asylum backlog be soar ; and illegal working be be ignore . the previous Government have lose control of the system and , as a result , open many hundred of asylum hotel across the country , while return be a third low than in 2010 . before leave office , they deliberately cut asylum decision make by 70 % , leave behind a steeply rise backlog . it be little wonder that people across the country lose confidence in the system and demand to know why they be pay the price of a system that be so out of control . however , that do not mean that people reject the long and proud history of Britain do our bit to help those flee persecution or conflict — include , in the past decade , family from Ukraine , Syria and Hong Kong . it be the british way to do our bit alongside other country to help those who need sanctuary . however , the system have to be control and manage , base on fair and properly enforce rule , not chaos and exploitation drive by criminal smuggler gang . it be exactly because of our important tradition that substantial reform be need now . in our first year in government , we have take immediate action , lay the foundation for more fundamental reform . we restore asylum decision making and then rapidly increase the rate of decision . have we continue with the previous Government ' s freeze on asylum decision , thousand more people would have be in hotel and asylum accommodation by now . instead , we remove 35 , 000 people with no right to be here , which include a 28 % increase in return of fail asylum seeker and a 14 % increase in removal of foreign criminal . we have increase raid and arrest on illegal working by 50 % , and we cut the annual hotel bill by almost a billion pound in the last financial year . we be roll out digital ID and biometric kit so that immigration enforcement can check on the spot whether someone have a right to work or a right to be in the UK . on channel crossing and organised immigration crime , we be put in place new power , new structure and new international agreement to help to dismantle the criminal industry behind the boat . I want to update the House on the further step we be now take . in August , I sign the new treaty with France allow we , for the first time , to directly return those who arrive on small boat . the first detention — of people immediately on arrival in Dover — take place the next day , and we expect the first return to begin later this month . application have be open for the reciprocal legal route , with the first case under consideration , subject to strict security check . we have make it clear that this be a pilot scheme , but the more that we prove the concept at the outset , the well we will be able to develop and grow it . the principle the treaty embodie be crucial . no one should be make these dangerous or illegal journey on small boat ; if they do , we want to see they swiftly return . in return , we believe in do our bit alongside other country to help those who have flee persecution through manage and control legal programme . this summer we have take further action to strengthen enforcement against smuggling gang . France have review its maritime approach to allow for the interception of taxi boat in french water , and we will continue to work with France to implement the change as soon as possible . in the past year , the National Crime Agency have lead 347 disruption of immigration crime network — its high level on record , and a 40 % increase in a year . over the summer , we announce a £ 100 million uplift in funding for border security and up to 300 more personnel in the National Crime Agency focus on target the smuggler gang . the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will give they strong power : counter - terrorism power against smuggler gang , power to seize and download the mobile phone of small boat arrival , and the power to ban sex offender from the asylum system altogether . if opposition party work with we to speed the passage of the Bill through the other place , instead of oppose it , those power could be in place within month , make our country safe and more secure . let I turn to the major reform that be need to fix the broken asylum system that we inherit . although we have increase decision making and return , the overall system remain sclerotic , outdated and unfair . as we commit to in the immigration White Paper , we will shortly set out more radical reform to modernise the asylum system and boost our border security . we will be tackle the pull factor , strengthen enforcement , make sure that people be treat fairly and reform the way that the european convention on human right be interpret here at home . we will be speed up the system , cut number and end the use of hotel , and develop control and manage route for genuine refugee . at the heart of the reform will be a complete overhaul of the appeal system — the big obstacle to reduce the size of the asylum system and end hotel use . ten of thousand of people in asylum accommodation be currently wait for appeal , and under the current system that figure be to grow , with an average wait time already of 54 week . we have already fund thousand of additional sitting day this year , and the border security Bill will introduce a statutory timeframe of 24 week . however , we need to go far . we will introduce a new independent body to deal with immigration and asylum appeal . it will be fully independent of Government and staff by professionally train adjudicator , with safeguard to ensure high standard . it will be able to surge capacity as need and to accelerate and prioritise case , alongside new procedure to tackle repeat application and unnecessary delay . we be also increase detention and return capacity , include a 1 , 000 - bed expansion at Campsfield and Haslar , with the first tranche of additional bed come online within month to support many thousand more enforce removal each year . our reform will also address the overly complex system for family migration , include change to the way that article 8 of the ECHR be interpret . we should be clear that international law be important . it be because other country know that we abide by international law that we have be able to make new agreement with France , to return people who arrive on small boat , and with Germany , to stop the warehousing of small boat by criminal gang , and it be why we have be able to explore return hub partnership with other european country . however , we need the interpretation of international law to keep up with the reality and challenge of today ' s world . there be one area where we need to make more immediate change . the current rule for family reunion for refugee be design many year ago to help family separate by war , conflict and persecution , but the way they be use have now change . even just before the pandemic , refugee who apply to bring family to the UK do so on average more than one or two year after they have be grant protection , which be long enough for they to get job , find housing and be able to provide their family with some support . in Denmark and Switzerland , those who be grant humanitarian protection be currently not able to apply to bring family for at least two year after protection have be grant . however , in the UK those family application now come in , on average , around a month after protection have be grant , often even before a newly grant refugee have leave asylum accommodation . as a consequence , refugee family who arrive be far more likely to seek homelessness assistance . some council be find that more than a quarter of their family homelessness application be link to refugee family reunion . that be not sustainable . currently , there be also no condition on family reunion for refugee sponsor , unlike those in place if the sponsor be a british citizen or long - term UK resident . that be not fair . the proportion of migrant who have arrive on small boat and then apply to bring family have also increase sharply in recent year , with sign that smuggler gang be now able to use the promise of family reunion to promote dangerous journey to the UK . we continue to believe that family stay together be important , which be why we will seek to prioritise family group among the applicant to come to Britain under our new deal with France , but reform be need . so in our asylum policy statement later this year , we will set out a new system for family migration , include look at contribution requirement , long period before newly grant refugee can apply , and dedicate control arrangement for unaccompanied child and those flee persecution who have family in the UK . we aim to have some of those change in place for the spring , but in the meantime we do need to address the immediate pressure on local authority and the risk from criminal gang use family reunion as a pull factor to encourage more people on to dangerous boat . therefore , this week we be bring forward new immigration rule to temporarily suspend new application under the exist dedicated refugee family reunion route . until the new framework be introduce , refugee will be cover by the same family migration rule and condition as everyone else . let I turn next to the action we be take to ensure that every asylum hotel will be close for good under this government , not just by shift individual from hotel to other site but by drive down the number in support accommodation overall , and not in a chaotic way through piecemeal court judgment , but through a control , manage and orderly programme : drive down inflow into the asylum system , clear the appeal backlog , which be crucial , and continue to increase return . within the asylum estate , we be reconfigure site , increase room sharing , tighten the test for accommodation and work at pace to identify alternative , cheap and more appropriate accommodation with other Departments and with local authority . we be increase standard and security and joint public safety co - operation between the police , accommodation provider and the Home Office to ensure that law and rule be enforce . I understand and agree with local council and community who want the asylum hotel in their community close , because we need to close all asylum hotel — we need to do so for good — but that must be do in a controlled and orderly manner , not through a return to the previous Government ' s chaos that lead to the opening of hotel in the first place . finally , let I update the House on the continue legal and control support that we will provide for those face conflict and persecution . we will continue to do our bit to support Ukraine , extend the Ukraine permission extension scheme by a further 24 month , with further detail to be set out in due course . we be also take immediate action to rescue child who have be seriously injure in the horrendous onslaught on civilian in Gaza so that they can get the health treatment they need . the Foreign Secretary will update the House shortly on the progress to get those child out . I confirm that the Home Office have put in place system to issue expedite visa with biometric check conduct prior to arrival for child and their immediate accompany family member . we have do the same for all the Chevening scholar and be now in the process of do so for the next group of student from Gaza who have be award fully fund scholarship and place at UK university so that they can start their study in autumn this year . later this year , we will set out plan to establish a permanent framework for refugee student to come and study in the UK so that we can help more talented young people flee war and persecution to find a well future , alongside cap and manage way for refugee to work here in the UK . the Government be determined to fix every aspect of the broken system we inherit and to restore the confidence of the british people , solve problem , not exploit they , with a serious and comprehensive plan , not fantasy claim base on sum that do not add up or gimmick that fail in the past . what we will never do be seek to stir up chaos , division or hate , because that be not who we be as a country , and that be not what Britain stand for . this be a practical plan to strengthen our border security , to fix the asylum chaos and to rebuild confidence in an asylum and immigration system that serve our national interest , protect our national security and reflect our national value . when we wave the Union flag , when we wave the St George ' s flag , when we sing " God save the king " and when we celebrate everything that be great about Britain and about our country , we do so with pride because of the value that our flag , our King and our country represent : togetherness , fairness and decency , respect for each other and respect for the rule of law . that be what our country stand for . that be the british way to fix the problem we face . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . the Government have now be in office for well over a year , and I think it be fair to say that not even their kind friend would say they think it have go well , but listen to her statement , it sound like she think everything be fine and that if there be any problem , it be somehow somebody else ' s fault . be she live in a parallel universe ? after over a year in office , she must now take responsibility for what be happen under this government . it be interesting to note that , during her statement , she do not mention her favourite phrase from a year or so ago — namely , that she be go to " smash the gang . " I wonder why she be so silent on her previously favourite catchphrase . the answer be that it be not go very well . she mention National Crime Agency disruption . let I gently point out that 84 % of those National Crime Agency disruption that she cite a few minute ago be classify as not be high impact , and National Crime Agency arrest for organise immigration crime actually go down by 16 % in the last financial year . that be hardly smash the gang . in fact , the NCA ' s arrest for organise immigration crime in that financial year be only 26 — a drop in the ocean compare with the ten of thousand cross the channel . it be also rather conspicuous that the Home Secretary do not mention even a word about the number illegally cross the english channel . I wonder why that be . I wonder why she forget to say a single word about that . the reason , I be afraid , be pretty clear . far from smash the gang , so far this year , 29 , 000 — to be precise , 29 , 003 — illegal immigrant have cross the english channel . that be the bad year in history , and it be up by 38 % compare with last year . that be not success ; it be failure . thing be not get any well ; they be get bad . this government be fail and everyone can see it . that be why there be protest up and down the country , and where those protest be peaceful , I support they . that be why 75 % of the public think the Government be handle immigration and asylum badly . that be a shocking figure ; let it sink in . let I turn to hotel . in the nine month before the last general election , 200 hotel be close down , include the Bell hotel in Epping , but since the election the number in asylum hotel have actually go up by 8 % . have that previous trend of closure continue , there would be no asylum hotel open at all today . I ask the Home Secretary to confirm that she will not reduce hotel usage simply by shunt asylum seeker from hotel into flat and house in multiple occupation , which be desperately need by young people . will she give the House that categoric assurance ? last week the Home Secretary ' s lawyer say that the right of illegal immigrant be more important than the right of local people in place such as Epping . when this be expressly put in those term to the Education Secretary yesterday on " Sunday Morning with Trevor Phillips " , she shamefully agree . those statement be a disgrace . do the Home Secretary realise how angry that make people feel ? it speak of a Government not on the side of the people in this country . it mean the Government appear to care more about the right of illegal immigrant than our own citizen . will she apologise for what her lawyer and the Education Secretary say , and will she undertake to ensure that Ministers and their lawyer will never say that again ? the Home Secretary talk about her return deal with France . it have be report that the deal will return only about 50 people a week , amount to 6 % of arrival . do she accept that allow 94 % of illegal arrival to stay will act as no deterrent at all ? if she do not accept that figure of 50 a week , will she tell the House exactly how many immigrant cross the channel will in fact be return under her deal ? she may recall that back in July we be tell by the Government that the first return would happen " within week " . will she confirm to the House that the number that have actually be return so far be precisely zero ? the Home Secretary say to the House a couple of minute ago that there would be security check on those people reciprocally take from France into the UK , but will she confirm that her agreement with France say expressly that the french Government will not provide the UK Government with any information at all — any personal datum about those migrant — so if there be criminal conviction or suspicion about extremism or terrorism , the french Government will not provide information to we ? if that be true , as her agreement say , how can she possibly conduct security check ? the Home Secretary talk about tweak to family visa rule . let I be clear about the opposition ' s position on this . if someone enter this country illegally , they should not be allow to bring in any family member . in fact , everybody enter this country illegally should be immediately remove , to their country of origin if possible , and if that be not possible , to a safe third country such as Rwanda — a scheme which she cancel just day before it be due to start . the public expect that approach — an approach which she cancel — because the number cross the channel so far this year have be the bad ever ; the bad in history . it be not just that the number be high . hundred of migrant , have cross the channel and live in those hotel , have be charge with criminal offence , include sexual assault on girl as young as eight year old and multiple rape . this be not just a border security crisis ; it be a public safety crisis as well , and people up and down this country be furious . that be why they be protest , and that be why 75 % of the public think this Government be fail on asylum and immigration . if this government be serious about fix this problem , they would know that little tweak here and there be not enough . tweak to article 8 be not go to be enough . tweak the family reunion rule be not enough . return maybe 50 people a week , if we be lucky , to France be not go to be enough . intercept maybe a few boat — worthy though that be — be not go to be enough . the only way these crossing will stop — the only way we be go to get back control of our border — be if everybody cross the channel know that they will be return . we table a Bill in Parliament a few week ago to do that . we have a plan to do that : the Rwanda Bill . we need to go far by disapplye to immigration matter the entire Human Rights Act 1998 , not just tinker with article 8 . if the Government be serious , that be what they would do . if the Home Secretary really want to control our border , and if she really want to get down the record number that have be cross on her watch , she would back our plan , disapply the Human Rights Act in its entirety to immigration matter , and ensure that every single person cross the channel be immediately remove . I worry about the shadow Home Secretary ' s amnesia . in the 14 year that the Conservatives be in government , they never manage to do any of the fantasy thing that he claim they do . let we come back to reality from his fantasy rhetoric . the shadow Home Secretary talk about the approach that his Government be take before the election . it be worth remind the House of what that approach be . asylum decision drop by 70 % . the Conservatives effectively have a freeze on take asylum decision , and they be return those asylum seeker nowhere — not to France , not to the safe country that people have pass through , and not to Rwanda , despite run that scheme for over two year with only four volunteer go at a cost of £ 700 million . their approach leave we with a soar backlog . have we continue with that totally fail approach — not take asylum decision , not return people anywhere — there would have be ten of thousand more people in asylum accommodation and hotel across the country right now . that be the kind of chaos that his policy be head towards . it be the kind of chaos that he be promise again now . the House will remember the shadow Home Secretary ' s personal record . small boat arrival go up tenfold on his watch as immigration Minister . few than 1 , 000 asylum seeker be in hotel by the time he become immigration Minister , but there be more than 20 , 000 by the time he leave his post . on his new concern for local council , he be the immigration Minister who write to local authority to tell they that he be stop the requirement on they to agree to accommodation and that he have " instead , authorise Providers to identify any suitable property that they consider appropriate . " we agree with community across the country that asylum hotel must all close , and I understand why individual council want to take action in their area , but I say to the shadow Home Secretary that a party that want to be in government should have a proper plan for the whole country , and not just promote a chaotic approach that end up make thing bad in lot of area . that be the Conservatives ' record . we have asylum hotel in the first place because the Conservatives do no planning and let the Manston chaos get out of control . as immigration Ministers , both the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , and the shadow Home Secretary rush around the country open hotel instead of take a practical , steady approach to get to the heart of the problem , reduce the asylum system , strengthen our border security and tackle and reform the appeal that be cause huge delay . let I make a final point . the Government strongly believe that sex offender should be ban from the asylum system altogether . that be why we have put those detail into the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which the shadow Home Secretary ' s party have vote against time and again and be still resist in the House of Lords . if opposition party support and work with we , that law could be on the statute book and we could have strong power against sex offender , strong counter - terrorism power to go after criminal gang , and strong power to tackle the offence be commit in the channel and across the country . the trouble be that what the Conservatives be do in opposition be an even bad version of what they do in government : ramp up the rhetoric with policy that would make the chaos bad . this government will fix the chaos that we inherit and strengthen our border security for the sake of the whole country . I thank the Home Secretary for everything that she have reveal today — it will make a difference . as we move from hotel into community distribution , how can we ensure sufficient vetting and transparency in asylum dispersal — especially for group know to be high risk — in order to safeguard our resident , restore faith among our community and prevent the threat of disorder such as that see in Nuneaton this summer ? my hon . friend make an important point . anyone who come to our country need to abide by our law . the rule need to be enforce . we also believe that new partnership and strong measure be need between policing and immigration enforcement and the Home Office to ensure that there be proper public safety plan for the asylum estate . we be draw up new arrangement , include not only strong check at the border but strong arrangement in local community . I recognise the important point that she make . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Home Secretary , as always , for advance sight of her statement . anyone with any sense know that the Conservatives trash our asylum system and leave the backlog spiral out of control , with application for asylum routinely take year to process . some of the Home Secretary ' s remark be welcome , but I worry that this Government risk repeat some of the same mistake . the Liberal Democrats will closely scrutinise the plan that the Home Secretary have talk about today , but give that the Home Office itself say that one of the reason that those human being seek asylum make dangerous small - boat crossing be the lack of safe , alternative family reunion route , cut those back far seem counterproductive , especially when more than half of those grant family reunion visa in the year end June 2025 be child under 18 . it be right that the Government have increase the rate of decision make — those with no right to be here should be send back swiftly , and those who have a valid claim should be able to settle , work , integrate and contribute to our community . the backlog be still too large , however , and initial application decision still take too long . as the Home Secretary state , a significant share of the backlog come from appeal . accord to the Government ' s own figure , in 2024 almost half of reject asylum application be overturn on appeal . for applicant from high - grant country , that proportion be even high . I would welcome clarity from the Home Secretary on how long it be currently take to process the average asylum application , and on what concrete step be be take to ensure not only that case be process more swiftly , but that decision be right the first time , so that applicant be not leave in limbo , the court be not overburden and taxpayer be not foot the bill for avoidable delay . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s encourage comment about the reciprocal agreement with France . can she confirm whether the Government plan for that to be scale up and , if so , when ? give that one of the main driver of dangerous channel crossing be the absence of safe , legal family reunion route , do the Home Secretary agree that cut family reunion rule risk make the small - boat crisis bad , not well ? the Home Secretary rightly also mention the impact on local authority . when individual leave hotel , many present as homeless , create an unsustainable burden on council , include my own . will the Home Secretary explain how she be work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to support council and ensure that this crisis be not simply shift from one overstretch system to another ? in recent week , constituent have be in touch with I as they be concerned about the number of flag that have go up on lamppost around our area . they worry that the flag have be put up by those who seek to divide our community , not bring it together . patriotism be a good thing . we should be proud of our country . we should be proud that our country welcome people such as my nan in the 1930 , when she be flee the Nazis . we should be proud of our record of do our bit . we should be proud of the british value I see in action across my community every day . I be proud of those police officer who keep everyone safe during the protest at two hotel in my constituency over the summer ; proud of those teacher and pupil who welcome new classmate when they have be place in one of the hotel ; and really proud of those who volunteer their time to support new arrival , whether through local church or other voluntary group and charity — because that be what patriotism look like . I thank the hon . Lady for her remark and question . at the heart of the France pilot that we have develop be the principle that those who arrive on dangerous and illegal small boat should be return , but alongside that we should also have a legal route for those who apply and who go through proper security check . as part of that , we will seek to prioritise people who have a connection to the UK , such as family group — people who have family connection to the UK . family will continue to need to be an underpinning part of the approach . the House will recall that the Ukraine family scheme be an important part of the response to the situation in Ukraine , for which Labour call in opposition . the family reunion arrangement be be use differently from how they be use five year ago . the number of people apply for family reunion immediately — before they have a job , a house or any way of be able to support their family — be increase the homelessness pressure on local authority at a time when we need they not just to do their bit to help to clear hotel , but , crucially , to provide homelessness support in the local community . it be important to ensure that arrangement for the family of refugee do not put additional pressure on the homelessness support system , so we will set out reform and ensure that , in the interim , refugee be include in the exist arrangement that apply to all sponsor in the UK for family reunion . we need to speed up appeal . the average appeal time be now 54 week , which be far too long . some appeal go on for way long , mean people with repeat appeal be in asylum accommodation for year , prevent the closure of asylum hotel that need to take place , which be why we need the reform . finally , the hon . Lady raise the issue of flag . I strongly support the flying of flag across the country — we fly the St George ' s flag in Pontefract castle each year . as she will know , the Union flag be on the Labour party membership card — [ interruption . ] I can show she a copy if she have not see one . flag should be an embodiment of bring our country together — that will be the same in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland — and a way to bring our country together through symbolism . a couple of year ago , I be work in local government in Scotland , try to deal with the impact of asylum hotel . at that time , the shadow Home Secretary be a Minister in the Home Office , and he open hotel after hotel , without even tell council that that be happen , so his amnesia today be staggering . we do not have asylum hotel five year ago , but we have they now because the last Government sign a contract with private provider that have cost billion of pound , put pressure on community , as well as be a procurement scandal . will the Home Secretary commit to read the report on this issue that the Home Affairs Committee be about to publish , and to look as creatively as she can at manage those asylum contract to get the good deal possible for the taxpayer ? I look forward to read the Home Affairs Committee ' s report and I thank my hon . friend for his work on the Committee . we have already be work to get well value from the contract that we inherit , which be one reason that we have save nearly £ 1 billion on asylum accommodation cost since the election . he be right to point out that the previous Government completely lose control of the system in 2022 . there be a total lack of planning or any grip on the situation , as well as chaos around management that be incredibly costly . the sudden surge of asylum hotel open all over the country , with poor contract that provide poor value for money , be bad for the taxpayer and damaging to have an effective system across the country . we can not go back to that kind of chaos . Home Secretary , please : we have a tinder - box situation in Epping . we have the Bell hotel , with allege sexual and physical assault , and now twice - weekly major protest , some of which become violent , with injury to police officer . appallingly , last week the Government successfully appeal against the injunction on the hotel , prioritise the right of illegal migrant over the right and , indeed , safety of the people of Epping . our community be in distress . the situation be untenable . this week the school be back . the hotel be in the wrong place , right near a school , and many concerned parent have contact I . when will the Home Secretary and the Government listen to we , address this issue and do the right and safe thing : close the Bell hotel immediately ? I agree that all asylum hotel need to be close as swiftly as possible , include the Bell hotel . that need to be do in an orderly and sustainable manner so that they be close for good . the hon . Gentleman be not right in the characterisation of the Government ' s case , because we be clear that all asylum hotel need to close . we need to ensure that that be do in an order way that do not simply make the problem bad in other neighbouring area or cause the kind of disorder chaos that lead to the opening of so many hotel in the first place . we also need to strengthen the security and the co - operation with policing , and we want to strengthen the law on asylum seeker who commit offence and can be ban from the system . that will be part of our Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill as well . it be Orwell who urge we to be proud of our country and to call out the nationalists try to demand that we express our pride or be call traitor accordingly . let we be proud of this country and the work it have do to support people flee persecution ; let we be proud of what we have do to help family from Ukraine and Hong Kong . I know the Home Secretary recognise that safe and legal route for refugee child to be reunite with their parent be something that we should be proud of . in that vein , if there be to be a delay in provide those safe and legal route , will it apply to all child , include ukrainian child , or will we recognise that help child so that they do not face penalty be our good and proud action ? my hon . friend make important point . the new arrangement that we set out will include both strong border security and reform to the asylum system to make it more control and manage and to reduce its size , as well as to have the control and manage legal route . that need to include arrangement for family and dedicated arrangement around unaccompanied child . my hon . friend be right to raise that as a serious issue . obviously we have a separate dedicated scheme for Ukraine , and we be continue with that scheme . on my hon . friend ' s point about what we should recognise , I think that people across the country continue to support that . have speak to ukrainian mum who describe how they flee in the first few week of Putin ' s invasion , know that their home village have be overrun by russian troop and not know whether other family member be safe or whether they would ever be able to return again , let I say that we should always remember what people can be flee from and the importance of country work together to support they . do the Home Secretary believe that the right of the people come over the channel in dinghy should take precedence over the right of local resident in place such as Epping , as her lawyer argue for in court and as the Education Secretary say in an interview at the weekend ? no , that be wrong . that be wrong about the Government ' s position . the Government have make it clear that all asylum hotel need to close , and they need to do so in an orderly manner that do not end up increase the problem in other area . we need to close the hotel for the whole country , and the judge themself have say that this be not about a hierarchy of right . I be very glad the Home Secretary have acknowledge that , like other country , we have a duty to safeguard those flee persecution and seek sanctuary in Britain . the reason we have 400 asylum hotel back in 2023 , at a cost of £ 9 million a day , and we now have just over 200 asylum hotel , be that the conservative party fail to deal with asylum claim application , which this country and this Government be now do . if there be any Government who will end the use of hotel for asylum seeker , it be this Labour Government . I welcome my hon . friend ' s point . we need the consistent , practical plan that will close hotel right across the country , clear the appeal backlog , which would otherwise grow , and prevent the increase in asylum claim in the first place . we also need the restarting of decision , because have we carry on with the freeze on asylum decision that the previous Government leave we with , there would be ten of thousand more people in hotel across the country right now . that would have be deeply wrong . People with a wide range of view about how to tackle immigration speak to I over the summer , and none of they be happy with how thing be . they be furious about how the Conservatives trash our border security , and they certainly do not want the hare - brain scheme of Reform — they want action that fix the system fast . after year of failure , will the Home Secretary finally ensure that our immigration system keep out people who would come here for the wrong reason , while properly support those who need our help ? yes , we need to strengthen our border security . that be why the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which be currently pass through the other place , include the ability to use counter - terrorism power against criminal smuggler gang . those power be crucial — we need to strengthen the work of the National Crime Agency in go after those gang , because they be pursue a vile trade in human life . I do not envy the Home Secretary try to clear up the mess that the last Government leave on migration . I doubt , however , that the measure she be currently put before the House will be as successful as she and I wish they to be . they do not really deal with the fact that many migrant be not come from war - tear country ; they be come from France , which be not persecute they in any recognisable form . the reason be demand pull from this country — migrant believe they will have a well and an easy time , and get through the system more easily , in this country than they would in France or in other european country . Denmark have be successful in reduce the demand pull . if the Home Secretary ' s measure be to be as successful as she wish they to be , will she look more closely at what Denmark have do to improve the situation ? my hon . friend be right to say that obviously , small boat be mainly set off from France — people have travel through France . that be exactly why we have negotiate the pilot agreement with France to be able to return people there . it be the first time this have happen ; it be something that previous government try and completely fail to do . it be important that we do that and build on it , but we also need to tackle some of those pull factor , particularly illegal working . that be why we have have a 50 % increase in illegal work raid and arrest . we also need to recognise that family reunion be be use by some criminal gang . one thing Denmark have do be increase the time before refugee can apply for family reunion , so that they be more likely to be work and support their family and to prevent criminal gang from be able to use family reunion as a pull factor . the Home Secretary have speak about tweak to the rule and regulation , and potentially to interpretation of the law . the problem with that , of course , be that our court will also interpret the law , and may go against what the Home Secretary want to do . will she set out what change to the law she will introduce to ensure we stop the illegal migrant come to this country ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we need to change the law . first , obviously , we have the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which will bring in a whole series of change include counter - terrorism power , ban sex offender from the asylum system and a new offence of endangerment . we also believe that new legal change to the asylum system be go to be need , and we will bring forward further legislation in order to make those change . later this year , we will set out detailed reform — not just on appeal , but more widely around the asylum system — to enable we to tackle some of both the historic chaos and the delay in the system , and to get that system back under control . as many be aware , a number of well - know delivery company and other company be employ asylum seeker with no right to work , which be help to incentivise the boat crossing and ultimately to undermine our national security . will the Home Secretary liaise with the Treasury before the Budget to discuss bring in a windfall tax on some of those delivery company , so that they can start contribute to the cost of a problem that they be help to exacerbate ? my hon . friend raise an important point about the gig economy and the need to ensure that it do not become rife with abuse and misuse when it come to illegal working . that be why we be bring in — again , in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which unfortunately the Conservatives and Reform have continue to vote against — requirement for employer in the gig economy to abide by check on illegal working . we have also recently sign with some of the major delivery company a new agreement to share information , so that we can target abuse and crime . what a country the UK be become ! rarely have the national mood be so ugly and intimidating . People be congregate at hotel , scream at asylum seeker to go home , and those on the right wing be so emboldened that they feel the street belong to they . do the Home Secretary not realise that every time she move on to reform ' s ground , all she be do be far encouraging and embolden they ? how about try something different ? how about just occasionally say something positive about immigration ? how about not dehumanise asylum seeker , and instead show they some compassion , decency and humanity ? I just point out to the hon . member that I have speak about ukrainian mum and their experience flee from Putin ; the student in Gaza who currently can not take up their place — we be work on expedite visa for they , so that they can pursue a well future — and the importance of have a proper , legal and control route as part of an effective system . that have be part of our history , but we also have to have a system that be properly control and manage . we have to have a system that be not open to abuse , misuse and exploitation by criminal gang . we also need strong border security , so that it be Government , and not gang , who choose who come to our country . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement . there be a lot to unpick , and we need more detail on this new appeal system . one of my key concern when I be in the Home Office many year ago be the poor legal advice that people be get early on . lawyer be make they jump through many hopeless hoop to extend their stay unnecessarily . they be put they in a miserable situation , cost the taxpayer , and create chaos and duplication in the system . be the Home Secretary look at what legal advice people will get at an early stage , so that appeal and process can be expedite ? my hon . friend be a former Home Office Minister ; she have a lot of experience with immigration case issue , and real concern about the advice people be give and the way that decision be make . we be strengthen some of the regulation , and improve the way the legal advice system work , in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . I would be happy to talk to my hon . friend far about this issue . the Stanwell hotel in my constituency be be use to house asylum seeker . I write to Home Office Ministers on 24 July , again on 25 July , and again on 29 July , and I have have zero response to any of those letter . please will the Home Secretary show some respect to my constituent and the people of Spelthorne and reply to their question and concern ? I will ensure that the hon . member get a write response to his question , but let I also make it clear that all asylum hotel , include the hotel in his constituency , need to close . they need to do so in an orderly manner , and in a way that do not make the problem bad elsewhere or create more chaos , as we have see in the past . that be the good way for we to reduce the size of the asylum system , to clear all the backlog , and to ensure that we have an effective system . the european convention on human right be an important bedrock , protect not only vulnerable people ' s right here in the UK , but also our strong international relationship , which be crucial to secure the return deal with France , and co - operation with Germany and other european partner on finally clamp down on the scourge of the people smuggle gang that we inherit . leave the echr fully can not be a solution to our problem , but that do not mean that every aspect of it work in the right way , and it be clear that it stand in the way of our take some action that we need to take if we be to deal with this issue seriously . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s clarification of how we will take forward interpretation of article 8 . may I seek confirmation that we will not shy away from further clarification , like the clarification she give today , where the echr be get in the way of the action that we know we need to take to provide the border security that our country be cry out for ? my hon . friend be right to talk about international law , and the ECHR be part of the reason why we have be able to get international agreement ; other country know that we will abide by international law . that be how we get the french pilot , which the previous Government be repeatedly unable to do . the way in which the ECHR be interpret be significant and need to keep up to date . we have a challenge around article 8 and family case ; far too many case be be treat as exception to the rule that Parliament have set . we think the rule need to change for we to address that , and we need to work through change to how article 8 in particular be interpret in our immigration and asylum system . we will set out more detail on that in our asylum reform package later this year . every time the Home Secretary announce a new policy on illegal migration , illegal migration go up , so I think a period of silence would be most welcome from she . do she agree that the only way to stop the pull factor be to detain , deport and never allow illegal migrant to claim asylum in this country ? the pilot scheme we have agree with France involve , for the first time , our be able to detain people on their arrival in Dover — this have not happen before — and return they to France , where the boat set off from . previous government , include the one that the hon . Gentleman support and be part of , be unable to agree or achieve that . we have also increase return of fail asylum seeker by nearly 30 % since the election alone , because we believe that the rule need to be enforce , and that return need to be increase . the problem with his party ' s approach be that it sound a lot like the last Tory Government ' s grand promise , which totally fail . his party be just rehash the same chaotic promise , without ever be able to provide the detail of how it would make any of its policy work . the british way be to roll up our sleeve and do thing in a practical way , increase return , and sort the problem out . the Home Secretary say in her statement that she will never " seek to stir up chaos , division or hate " , yet that be what we have see this summer . the far right be embolden , because of racism and demonisation in the medium and from politician . instead of scapegoate refugee and asylum seeker , perhaps the Home Secretary need to be think about more humane policy , include safe route , employment and the right to remain . can she explain whether these policy have be , or will be , consider ? the french pilot scheme involve allow people who apply lawfully and go through proper security check to come to the UK on a one - for - one basis , as we return those who have arrive on dangerous small boat in the hand of criminal gang . I also set out in my statement our intention to have a permanent framework under which refugee student can come to the UK , rather than our take an ad hoc approach , as we currently do to Gaza student . there need to be a more systematic approach , as well as cap and control approach to other refugee work programme . that have to come alongside well control and management of the exist system , which have become chaotic , with long delay and the undermining of our border security by criminal gang . we have to do these thing together , in a way that pull our country together , rather than see division and tension continue . reform announce in the summer that it would house all asylum seeker on former RAF basis . in my constituency , RAF Linton - on - Ouse be rule out , on the ground that its location in a small village make that inappropriate . will the Home Secretary confirm that she have no plan to reverse the decision to rule out such inappropriate RAF basis ? obviously , we do not want asylum accommodation in inappropriate place . we must reduce the overall size of the asylum system , while ensure that we can move people , when possible , from hotel to alternative and well site . any arrangement that be aim simply at expand the asylum system , as happen if there be a freeze on asylum decision — and some of the policy that Reform be unfortunately pursue risk increase the number of people stick in the asylum system , because Reform have no plan for practical return — will make the problem bad . we need practical change to bring the number down . it have come to my attention that in government , the job of Home Secretary do not always attract the great thank , so I want to thank my right hon . friend for the response that she and her Department have give to the letter from 100 colleague about the Gaza student , and for what she say this afternoon about consider a permanent scheme . will she confirm , however , that the visa , when they be issue , will be the same as any international student visa , in that the scholar will be able to bring their family and dependant with they ? as my hon . friend will know , many student visa do not allow student to bring dependant to the United Kingdom . there will be exceptional circumstance , such as those involve Gaza , but the overall approach — for example , to student visa relate to master course — be not to include dependant . we do , however , want to ensure that the refugee route for student be available , recognise that some people will be able to come and be educate at UK university to develop their incredible talent , but will want to return to their home country in future to rebuild they . there may be other who be not able to return , because that be the nature of the crisis we face . in her statement , the Home Secretary mention that the National Crime Agency have disrupt 347 immigration crime network . can she tell we how many gang be smash during the same period ? many of those disruption be exactly about pursue gang , and there be more than 40 high - profile and high - value disruption that the National Crime Agency itself have say be have a significant impact on degrade , undermine and stop the criminal gang . some of the arrest that have be co - ordinated with France and Germany be also prevent criminal gang activity by , for instance , take out the leader of some of those gang . be it any wonder that an Opposition Member describe the shadow Home Secretary ' s asylum policy as " silly " , give that it be a Conservative Government who fail to process claim , fill up hotel , leave people in limbo and break the bank in the process , just as they break the bank when it come to everything that they touch ? open asylum hotel do not happen on our watch , and we want to shut they . we want to save the public purse significant sum of money , and we want to get the system right . will the Home Secretary tell the people of Bournemouth East , whom I represent , how she be speed up the process of close asylum hotel in Bournemouth and in Britain ? my hon . friend be right . we need to end asylum hotel across the board , and that mean ensure that we can clear the appeal backlog through major appeal reform , because that be currently the main obstacle to the fast closure of hotel . it mean prevent people from take up accommodation in the first place when they be not entitle to it , and it mean look for alternative site that be more appropriate , which will mean work with other Government Departments . it also mean , crucially , recognise that carry on with the system that we inherit — the frozen system , in which the last Government be not return people and not make asylum decision — would have leave we with ten of thousand more people in asylum hotel . that be the system that Conservative Members want to go back to , but it would be deeply damaging for my hon . friend ' s constituent , and for the country . provide safe route for refugee be not go to eradicate the entire problem — none of we be say that it will — but it be surely part of the solution to stop trafficking across the channel . be it not just cruel madness to restrict family reunion , which be one of the few safe route that currently exist , particularly when we know that 93 % of the refugee family reunion visa grant this year be for woman and child ? will this not increase the number of people put themselves at the mercy of evil trafficker , and the number of tragedy in the channel ? I know that this be an issue in which the hon . Member have take a very strong interest over a long period of time . since he and I first start discuss this issue many year ago , the way in which the family reunion system be use have change . it have go from people apply one or two year after they have refugee protection here in the UK to people apply in around a month . that mean that the people apply have often not leave asylum accommodation or asylum hotel . they do not have housing , job or way to support family member whom they seek to bring to the UK , and we have also see that criminal gang be use and exploit the system . that be why we be temporarily pause the exist refugee family reunion route , and we will consult on the new arrangement that should be bring in . we will aim to bring in some of those arrangement by this spring . in the interim , refugee will be cover by exactly the same rule as everyone else , and by the same condition as everyone else , through the appendix FM process . but there be a concern , because there be no condition on refugee family reunion at the moment . the way in which it be be use have change , and there be a responsibility on we to not have huge problem with homelessness assistance for local authority , and to have a manage system that also support contribution and do not simply end up be exploit by criminal gang . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and I recognise the complexity of the issue that she be face . I be very strike by Lord Dubs ' s description of his personal circumstance on the radio this morning . his father leave Prague as soon as the Nazis invade in 1939 . Lord Dubs get Kindertransport — he be one of the last one out — and his mother follow a few month later . that be not the one or two - year timetable that we have talk about in term of the parity of the scheme , so perhaps there need to be an " Alf Dubs test " that would make sure that family face similar circumstance , where their life be in jeopardy , would be protect . he also mention ensure that people understand why people flee as refugee . the conflation between economic migrant and refugee be , frankly , very unhelpful . I recognise the important point that my hon . friend make and the work that Lord Dubs have do over many year , particularly in championing unaccompanie child refugee . we have recognise that there will need to be dedicate arrangement that recognise the particular plight of unaccompanied child refugee , but this need to be do in a properly control and manage way , which it have not be for a long time . under the exist system that will apply to everyone over the next six month while we bring in the new arrangement , there be always provision for exceptional circumstance , but we need to prevent the current system from push significant homelessness pressure on to local authority , and from be exploit by criminal gang . the only effective measure of the Government ' s action be the number of crossing , isn ' t it ? there be a big problem with the small boat , as we have see the criminal gang change their tactic , particularly to exploit the french rule mean that , up until now , France have not be intervene in french water . not just that , but people who have come to the UK lawfully , but be come to the end of their visa , be claim asylum when nothing have change in their country . we need to ensure tight rule about that , as well as action on border security to prevent dangerous boat crossing , which undermine security and put life at risk . my constituency , like Britain as a whole , have long be home to people of all faith and culture who come here or whose forebear come here from all around the world . over the summer , we have see the growth of ugly rhetoric , include the term " indigenous Britons " , which risk a culture of fear in many of our community . what be the Government do to address this insidious trend ? my hon . friend make a really important point . ours be a country that have be strengthen through many generation by people come to our shore from all over the world to work , reunite with family , be part of community , set up business and be part of our public service , particularly our national health service . they have do so for generation after generation . that be an important part of our country and will continue to be so for the future . we have have long debate about how the immigration system of course need to be control and manage , but we also recognise the need for our country to come together . whatever their history or family history , people must be able to come together and be proud of the country that Great Britain be , not be divide , pursue hatred or pit people against each other . our community be divide , and they be scared . we — all of we — want to be with our family , and community be at their strong when family life be protect and support . if the Secretary of State lift the ban on asylum seeker work , she would be give those who subsequently achieve refugee status a strong footing to support their family and be ready to join our community , and they would not need to seek the homelessness relief she mention . instead of keep child and their family apart , why do she not help family to support themselves ? I know that the hon . Member will be as concerned as I be about the life at risk in small boat crossing , and we have to do everything we can to prevent those dangerous boat crossing , include when family be on they . however , part of what the criminal gang do — it be part of their sell — be to claim that it will be really easy to work , and that be to work illegally , in the UK . it be part of their pitch , and that be one of the reason why it be so important to tackle illegal working . that promise of be able to work easily and get income be one of the thing the criminal gang exploit to get a lot of people to part with their money and get involve in the criminal gang ' vile trade . I be strike by the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) about the importance of good and appropriate legal advice for people seek immigration status in the UK . I recall two case in which constituent have be very badly let down by their solicitor , and I have bring those two case to the attention of the Home Office . give that justice be devolve to the Scottish Government , when change be make to the regulation of this issue will the Home Secretary commit to discuss this with the Scottish Government and , if necessary , the Law Society of Scotland ? I welcome the point my hon . friend make about legal advice on migration issue . immigration be not a devolved issue , and we need to ensure high standard of legal advice right across the country . we obviously have such discussion with all the devolved administration , and we will continue to do so as the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill pass through Parliament . will the Home Secretary set out how many migrant will be return to France over the come 12 month ? we have set out that this be a pilot , and that we want to build and grow it . there be no cap on the overall number to go as part of the pilot , and we need to build it as we go . we have also say that we will not set out the kind of operational detail that criminal gang will simply use and manipulate , but we will provide update , as each month go by , on the progress of the scheme . it be important in two way : first , it be the basis from which we can then expand to actually be able to return people to France and undermine the model of the criminal gang ; and underpin this be a fairness principle , which be that if you arrive on a dangerous illegal small boat and pay a criminal gang , you should be return . but we should do our bit , alongside other country , to help those who apply through a legal route and go through proper security check . this summer , my community have be deeply divide by misinformation about asylum hotel and local crime rate . this have be exploit by part of the national medium and , frankly , conservative and Reform politician and local activist group seek simply to stoke fear . like everyone on the Labour Benches , I stand on a manifesto to end hotel use , so can I thank the Home Secretary for get on with the job of restore order to our asylum system to address the chaos leave by the previous Government ? can she reassure my constituent that we remain committed to tackle the vile organise crime gang that drive the boat , to clear the asylum backlog to give those who be seek asylum the chance to restore their life here and give they certainty , and to end hotel use in community like mine and across the country ? as my hon . Friend say , we make clear in our manifesto that we will end asylum hotel use . we need to put an end to asylum hotel use right across the country , and to do so in an orderly way . we also need to ensure that the rule be properly enforce and law be properly respect . we will strengthen the law . that be why , for example , the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill ban sex offender from the asylum system and strengthen counter - terrorism power to go after the criminal gang . it be astonishing , frankly , that the Conservatives and reform refuse to support it , when we need those law in place as rapidly as possible . we will do so alongside ensure that there be proper control and manage legal way to support refugee , as our country have always do , because that be a proud part of our history . past wave of refugee who come to this country quite rightly have to identify themselves and come here legally . what percentage , do the Home Secretary think , of people who arrive illegally by small boat do so have tear up their identification document , and should such people ever be grant asylum ? the right hon . Member will know that there be different identity check as part of the asylum system . those be test through the court . one of the reason asylum claim can be turn down be if there be a lack of credibility in the application . that can be a lack of credibility because of concern about deliberately lose document , for example , or not have proper identity information . it be important that we do that . it be why we be also increase the digital ID and biometric check as part of the way to prevent illegal working , and link that back to the biometric asylum system . illegal work not only undermine the integrity of our immigration system , it erode trust in our community . in Aldershot , constituent have raise concern about people continue to work illegally even after report have be make to the Home Office . that risk leave local people feel that the system be neither fair nor properly enforce . I welcome that Home Office illegal work raid be up 50 % , but what action be the Government take to strengthen enforcement and how be the Home Office ensure that report be act on swiftly , so that trust in our community can be maintain ? my hon . friend make an important point . we have increase illegal working arrest and raid by 50 % and significantly increase the fine for employer engage in illegal working . far to that , the organise immigration crime domestic taskforce , which bring together police here in the UK , be look at the way in which organise immigration crime network be link to organise crime and the exploitation of illegal worker in the UK , so it be about go after some of those employer operate bogus tactic , alongside the exist raid . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s confirmation in her statement of the expedite visa for student , particularly those from Gaza . I write to both the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary this summer to appeal for exactly this move , and I know how welcome it will be to those student . the Home Secretary talk about a cap work scheme . we talk a lot about the pressure on local authority and the cost to the taxpayer . do she not agree that if we give asylum seeker the right to work , pay national insurance and tax and contribute , they would then be carry their own burden , and they would no long be a weight on the taxpayer ? I welcome the campaigning the hon . Lady have do to support student in Gaza , because the situation we be see there be horrendous . the Foreign Secretary will shortly make a statement about the truly abominable situation in Gaza , as well as the work we be do to get out student who have fully fund place in the UK and provide they with support . on the hon . Lady ' s question , I would say that the criminal smuggling gang use the potential to work in the UK as a pull factor — as part of their advertising — which be a point the French Government have raise many time . the challenge with the scenario she set out be that it would make it even easy for the criminal gang to use that factor as part of their advertising to try to persuade people to part with their money and make an incredibly dangerous journey across the channel . the stigmatise and dehumanising of asylum seeker have stir up race hate in our community , thankfully by only a small number , and I have be really disturb to see that racism perpetrate on the street of York . however , I be even more disturbed to hear that there be plan assault on asylum hotel across the country , not least in York , where we have child and family stay . what police operation will be in place to protect those child and family from this hate and ensure their safety over the come week ? my hon . friend be right to point out the danger of divisive , dehumanising language towards other human being and to point to our shared humanity . we can have disagreement with people ; we can have different view about the way in which system should work and rule should be enforce and we can recognise that there will be people who have to be return because they have no right to be in the UK . however , we can also avoid the kind of demonising language that end up escalate tension or promote hatred and violence — something that we in this country should never do . the Home Secretary have today describe the people smuggler as criminal and the boat crossing as illegal . do she therefore agree that the 29 , 000 individual who have enter this country illegally from France this year should be classify as lawbreaker who should at least be deport straightaway or be ban from claim asylum in the future ? the law on illegal entry go right back to 1972 , I think ; the issue of illegal entry be long stand . I say to the hon . Gentleman that the policy of the previous Government — his government — be to claim that everybody be go to be return to France or send to Rwanda , but they run their scheme in Rwanda for two and a half year during which time only four volunteer be send , so nobody be return , and they never manage to return anybody to France . we be clear that we believe that people who arrive on dangerous boat crossing or via illegal route should be return to France . we have set up the pilot scheme to develop that ; we want to build it . it be something the previous Government never manage to do . there be no point in their fantasy claim — we need practical step , which be what we be do with France . one of the hotel that house asylum seeker in Kent be the Holiday Inn in Ashford . the decision to house they there be take by the Conservatives when they be in power . many people live there be go through an appeal process , so I welcome the decision to speed up the appeal process . will my right hon . friend reassure I and my constituent that this Government will end the use of the Holiday Inn as an asylum hotel as soon as possible ? I assure my hon . friend that we will end the use of asylum hotel , include the hotel in his constituency . part of the way we will do that be by clear the appeal backlog . the reason for set up the new independent appeal commission be so that it can swiftly surge capacity if there be change in the number of case go to appeal . it will be able to respond much more quickly and some of the procedure will be change so that it can fast - track decision making and return for those who do not have a right to be in the UK . after the horror of the last century , we pledge to protect people flee war and persecution . that include parent and their child . today the asylum system be in chaos , and this serve no one save those who peddle hatred . Border Force staff represent by the Public and Commercial Services Union have produce a " Safe Routes " report outline how a ukrainian - style visa system would prevent death in the channel and stop the smuggling gang overnight . will the Home Secretary listen to officer on the frontline who be seek to deliver a practical and humane solution to the present chaos ? the principle behind the France pilot , which we want to build and grow , be that people can apply through a legal process and go through proper security check but that we will return people who come on these dangerous small boat facilitate by criminal gang . that principle be really important . we want a system that can well return those who be be exploit by criminal gang and use illegal entry , and we will do that by undermine their business model . alongside that , we will do what our country have always do throughout history : provide a legal process — control and manage — to support those who have flee persecution and conflict . that be what happen as part of the Ukraine scheme , and it be what we now seek to do as part of a refugee approach to student . we need a proper system across the board that both bring control to a chaotic system and be true to our historic value . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and I commend she for the way she be work with our neighbouring country to deal with this problem . the approach of the previous Government be basically to stand on the cliff of Dover shout abuse across the channel and to tell they that they should keep all refugee and we would take none . do my right hon . friend agree that if we be go to provide a solution to this problem , it have to come from the sort of co - operation that she have be work on ? I agree with my hon . friend ; we see what happen under the previous Government and the system we inherit . that Government make grand but empty claim about where people be go to be return to but have none of the agreement and nothing workable in place to actually do it . instead , they have people stick — potentially indefinitely — in the asylum system , which would have mean increase number of asylum hotel . in contrast , we have already achieve a 28 % increase in return of fail asylum seeker and put in place the foundation for build a new approach with France and other european country . I think that most people recognise the complexity of this issue rather than the fantasy promise approach , which end up undermine trust . do the Home Secretary accept that some of the UK ' s adversary be seek to weaponise illegal migration , and do she share my concern about the grow nexus between malign state actor and non - state actor , such as the criminal gang she have mention ? if she accept that that collaboration and malevolent co - operation be go on , do she then agree that it be a national security threat and that even though there will be more counter - terrorism power under the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill for the National Crime Agency , which I welcome , there should also be more collaboration between the Security Service and the National Crime Agency ? I agree with the point make by the right hon . member . the Prime Minister say last year that border security be a national security issue ; he be right about that . he be also right that we see malign force attempt to exploit and undermine border security , and he be right to talk about the interaction we see sometimes between malign state - back threat and organise immigration crime . that be why we already have grow co - operation between the intelligence and security agency and the National Crime Agency , who be look at some of those smuggler gang threat and route ; they have pursue further issue there . they be also look at strengthen check that we may be able to do at our border . his point strengthen the argument for international co - operation with other law enforcement and intelligence and security agency . in a previous life , I work on the Turkey - Greece return deal , which return refugee who have cross in small boat from Turkey to the greek island in return for properly register asylum seeker in Turkey . as we all know , that deal drastically reduce the number of small boat that cross into Turkey . do the Home Secretary think that the UK ' s deal with France , negotiate just last month , be already have a deterrent effect ? might that be connect to our have see the small number of crossing in August since 2019 ? my hon . friend be right that crossing in August be at their low for several year even though there be the same level of crossing day as last summer . he will know that a lot of different factor be involve . we have be seek with France , through the implementation of its maritime review , to be able to make strong intervention . I welcome the point that my hon . Friend make about the Greece - Turkey deal , which do have a significant impact on those crossing . that be why we believe that pursue this co - operation with France be the right thing to do . I welcome the work that the french Government have do to support the pilot agreement on return . as an Eastbourne boy bear and breed , I be a proud Englishman . in Winston Churchill ' s St George ' s day speech in 1933 , he say that his England be one where no one would think of persecute a man on account of his religion or his race . do the Home Secretary agree with Winston Churchill that our country and our flag represent unity and tolerance ? do she agree with I that those who attempt to divide our community in the name of our flag be no patriot of Churchill ' s England , no patriot of today ' s England and no patriot of our great country ? I agree with the hon . member about the importance of patriotism that bring our country together . that be what our flag symbolise and what our value as a country symbolise . obviously , the Union Jack be in itself as a flag the very embodiment of come together . for those of we who represent english constituency , we be proud to fly the St George ' s flag and proud to stand up for the share value that he describe — there be patriotism around those english value and british value — about come together , fairness , decency and respect ; that be what we do . that be why we all want an order system that criminal gang can not exploit — we respect the rule of law — but it be also why we should never discuss any of these issue in a way that promote hate and division . that be not the kind of country we be . at the start of the summer , I welcome the Government ' s decisive action in sanction chinese company involve in manufacturing and supply boat use by criminal gang to facilitate dangerous channel crossing . disrupt those supply chain be a vital part of smash the gang . will my right hon . friend update the House on what discussion she have have with international counterpart to co - ordinate effort to target those company and ensure that the sanction be enforce globally ? my hon . friend be right to welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s introduction of sanction for criminal smuggler gang , and this be the first time that have be do . we also have extensive co - operation through the National Crime Agency . for example , we have massively strengthen the co - operation with Iraq , because we know that iraqi kurdish gang be operate in northern France . we have recently sign a new agreement with Iraq , as well as with Turkey , Bulgaria , Belgium , France and , crucially , with Germany , which be go to change its law to help we go after the criminal gang and their supply chain . the work that be be do to disrupt supply chain be have an impact . it be significant , too , that we be see not only disruption and arrest internationally as well as in the UK ; we be also see few boat physically cross , although the criminal gang be resort to overcrowd those boat instead . I note that the Appeal Court judge in last Thursday ' s judgment be use article 8 of the european convention on human right as a reason for the interim injunction on the Bell hotel to be quash , yet the Home Secretary have argue in her statement today that she want to alter the interpretation of that same article 8 . would not a much well , quick and more effective route be the one propose by the shadow Home Secretary this afternoon — namely , simply to disapply all immigration matter from the European Court of Human Rights ? that be not my understanding of what those on the Opposition Front Bench be argue for ; that be about the Human Rights Act risk there be more issue with the domestic court be unable to take decision before thing go to the european court , but I will leave the hon . gentleman to wrangle with his party about what its position be . we think there need to be reform of the way article 8 be interpret . too many case around family rule have be treat as exception , and that high level of decision making can not be exceptional if so many case be be treat as exception . this mean that we need to look at the rule themselves , and we also need much great clarity about the way we believe those rule should be interpret , and the way family migration should be interpret in the court . much have be say about the role of the european convention on human right , and it appear that the party of Churchill be seek to abandon his legacy in its lurch towards the right , just as there be a grow consensus among european nation that we need to modernise it for today ' s time . do the Home Secretary agree that Britain should be part of lead that change , rather than leave and turn we into Belarus or Russia ? we have a strong history of lead on international standard and international legal framework . of course , law and the way in which they be interpret need to move with the time and keep up to date with the new challenge , include in a world of mass communication where we face very different kind of challenge than we do 20 or 50 year ago . my hon . friend be right to say that the UK have always play that lead role in define those standard , and in make sure that other country abide by international law . we will lose out and not get the kind of international co - operation that we need if we just rip up that international law and co - operation . I be proud that this country help refugee , and I be intensely proud that I spend year build a charity work with rwandan refugee from the genocide , but in Horley there have be two serious criminal incident in the past three month relate to the Four Points hotel . my constituent have legitimate safety concern , although the police have act promptly , so what step be the Home Secretary take to ensure that the Four Points hotel be close as an asylum hotel as soon as possible ? the hon . Member make an important point . we want all asylum hotel to close , include in his constituency , and we need to do that in a controlled and orderly manner . we also need to strengthen the arrangement , to ensure that the law and the rule be enforce and that public safety consideration be take seriously as part of the management of the whole asylum and immigration system . that be why we be develop new partnership between policing , immigration enforcement , the Home Office and asylum accommodation provider . it be immensely important that there be proper share information and strong arrangement to ensure that criminality , wherever be find , it be properly and swiftly tackle . the shadow Home Secretary , the former Immigration Minister , have some brass neck , do we not think ? he open so many hotel that at one stage I think he might take over from Lenny Henry in front Premier Inn . my constituent be so feed up with this , and I be glad that the Home Secretary be take it so seriously , get the number down . while we do everything we can to get the number down , do she agree that everyone involve in the debate , particularly politician , should not incite or encourage the sort of aggression and , actually , sheer racism that we have see over the summer , some of which be direct towards our brave police officer ? my hon . friend be right that the previous Government , include the shadow Home Secretary when he be Immigration Minister , be responsible for a huge increase in asylum hotel and preside over a tenfold increase in small boat crossing . the important thing now be to ensure that we can end asylum hotel and bring back control into the system . but as we do so , we should ensure that we do not have divisive or hateful rhetoric , or anything that promote violence against police officer or within community , which be always a disgrace . the Home Secretary be right to talk about tackle the push and pull factor — something we work towards tackle when we be in government , despite challenge with bring forward the use of third country . that be because we need both a deterrent and a place to send people whose country of origin we either do not know or we do not have a return agreement with . it be no surprise to I that arrival have increase since that scheme be scrap . I understand that a period of reset be happen in Downing Street , so how long before we can expect she to come to the Dispatch Box to introduce a third - country scheme ? this Government have manage to get the agreement with France in place — that pilot agreement that we seek to build . France , obviously , be not the country where most of the people pass through start from , so it be effectively a third - country agreement that we have already put in place and be now work to implement on a pilot basis . we be also work with other european country to explore return hub . but what we do not think be the right thing to do be have an incredibly expensive programme that send just four volunteer and , during the two year - plus that it be in operation , end up cost £ 700 million while 84 , 000 people arrive in the UK . Peterborough be a proud and generous place and have welcome many people through its door over generation . I pay tribute to the church , mosque and community group that be welcome people and look after they . but people be get feed up with a system that be break , and it be break before my right hon . friend become Home Secretary . many of my constituent will welcome the record deportation and the focus on article 8 and make efficiency in drive forward the system . but to be honest , the big issue in my constituency remain the hotel that be open by Serco with no consultation with the police or the council beforehand . can my right hon . friend assure I that she will ensure that there be no single bureaucratic block and no stone leave unturned in get the Dragonfly hotel close as soon as possible , as part of fix this rotten , broken system ? we have make it clear that we need to end all asylum hotel , include the hotel in my hon . friend ' s constituency . it be because we believe in the UK ' s long history of help those flee persecution and conflict in an order way that we also need to get control and fix the chaos that we inherit , include end asylum hotel , which be undermine confidence in the whole system and be introduce exactly because the previous Government lose control of the system . that be what now need to be turn around , and those be the foundation we be put in place . the Home Secretary have touch on it a couple of time , but I be yet to hear from she about the scope of the Government ' s asylum accommodation programme , which be currently rate " amber " . despite the fact that 29 , 003 asylum seeker have arrive by small boat so far this year , the scope of the programme , follow its strategic refresh , will mean the creation of only 5 , 000 bed space by the end of 2026 , spread across three accommodation pilot . where will those three pilot be , how many bed space will each have , and at what stage be each one ? we be develop alternative approach to asylum accommodation , include work with local council that have come forward and with other Departments . we will provide an update as we make progress . two thing need to happen together : the shift to alternative site must follow value - for - money test — not have the proper assessment in place be a mistake that often happen in the past , as the Public Accounts Committee identify — and we must reduce the number of people in the asylum accommodation system overall . if we do not reduce the number in the system but simply move the problem around from place to place , we will not solve it and get it back under control . ensure that we have a humane and function asylum and immigration system require competence , credibility and compassion . I welcome the credible plan that the Government have put in place . our approach must also be holistic , part of which mean tackle the root cause of displacement , conflict and persecution . the Home Secretary have touch on how we be work with other country , but will she also talk about how she be work across Government to address those driver of displacement ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s point . she be absolutely right to say that any comprehensive and effective approach — internationally , not just here in the UK — must consider the cause and driver of mass migration : people flee persecution and conflict , and the economic migration issue that have cause significant challenge . the Foreign Secretary and I have set up a joint migration team to work closely on some of those issue , and he have also make issue around migration a key priority for the Foreign Office . this be clearly an important cross - Government issue on which we be work together . when Labour be in opposition , it attack the conservative on the small number of asylum seeker who have be remove to Rwanda as part of the Tory deterrent . now that the Conservatives be in opposition , they be attack Labour for the small number of asylum seeker who will be remove to France as part of the Labour deterrent . do the Home Secretary accept that , in order for a deterrent to work , people consider that dangerous crossing need to know that it may be in vain ? we have establish the agreement with France as a pilot agreement , and we want to develop and expand it . it allow we to detain people immediately on arrival at Western Jet Foil in Dover in order then to be return . the first case have be refer to France , and we expect the first return to start during the course of this month . as well as the impact of undermine the criminal business model of the gang — the deterrence that the hon . Gentleman talk about — there be the important principle that people arrive illegally on dangerous boat have pay criminal gang should be return , but the UK should do its bit , in a control and manage way alongside other country , for those who apply through legal route and go through proper security check . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement and strongly welcome the enforcement action take recently by UK Border Force , Cumbria police and local trading standard to crack down on illegal trading and illegal retail work in my Carlisle constituency . will she reassure my constituent that there will be no let - up in that enforcement activity , and that the same rigour will be apply to migrant worker employ as delivery rider ? I , too , welcome the law enforcement work in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we have set up a domestic organise immigration crime taskforce to work across different police force on the network that be exploit illegal working , which often have network into all kind of other organise crime , undermine community and town centre , and exploit individual and border security . we be strengthen that domestic work , which have never before be do , as a result of the report by his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and Rescue Services . on the watch of this Home Secretary , 2025 have be the bad year on record for small boat crossing . the Government claim that they want to end the use of asylum hotel , but the right hon . Lady be not tell we when they will do that . I would like reassurance that we will not see an increase in house in multiple occupation , local house or flat be rent for those individual , or any increase in cost for local council . unfortunately , the Conservative Front Benchers want we to go back to the position that we inherit from the previous Government . their freeze on asylum decision would have leave we with ten of thousand more people in asylum hotel . we will end asylum hotel over the course of this Parliament , not simply by move people to different kind of accommodation — that be an important point — but by reduce the overall size of the asylum system . the previous Government ' s policy be do the opposite and increase it . if we do not reduce the overall size of the asylum system , we will never solve the problem , or rebuild the confidence of people across the UK . in the east end of London , we have a proud history of welcome refugee and migrant , many of they flee war and persecution , but over recent year and month , the political and medium establishment have be complicit in the normalisation of Islamophobia and anti - migrant rhetoric . over the summer , there have be campaign to target asylum seeker outside hotel , and people have resort to violent aggression , include yesterday in my constituency . that be put all of we at risk . what exactly will the Home Secretary do to ensure that asylum seeker , refugee , migrant and all those who live in my constituency be safe from attempt — include those organise by the far right — to create fear and division in our area ? everyone have a right to be safe , and to respect . the pursuit of division , hatred and violence be never acceptable , in the immigration and asylum system or more widely across our country . it be hugely important that alongside all the reform that we introduce — we do need reform to the system — we have clear recognition of our shared humanity and the need to prevent any kind of violence and hatred , or the tension and problem that my hon . friend describe . with the number of crossing up more than 40 % this year alone , at some 30 , 000 , clearly the Government ' s policy be act as a magnet , not a deterrent . when will the Home Secretary realise that the only effective deterrent be to detain and deport everyone who come here illegally , and that to do that , we must leave the european convention on human right ? this Government have , since the election , increase the number of return of those who have no right to be here . there have be a 28 % increase in return of fail asylum seeker . we be strengthen enforcement and bring in new counter - terrorism power that allow we to go after the criminal gang . incomprehensibly , the hon . Gentleman ' s party vote against those counter - terrorism power . it seem to oppose the action that we need to take to go after the criminal gang . if he and the Conservatives be to support the new power , we could bring they in swiftly , in the course of a few month , and give our law enforcement the power to take strong action against the criminal gang . I hope that he support the agreement with France , which provide for the immediate detention of people arrive in the UK , and their return to France . the trouble with his party ' s policy be that they sound an awful lot like the previous Conservative Government ' s policy , which totally fail . the Conservative Government be chaos ; his party seem to be chaos on steroid . his party be not try to solve the problem . all it be try to do be exploit it . we need a properly control and manage system that go after the criminal gang , who should not be able to get away with their vile trade . Gloucester have a proud history as a welcoming and diverse city . just last week , I be pleased to attend the ukrainian independence day celebration in my constituency with some of those who have seek refuge in our city . however , many constituent have write to I , particularly those who live next door to the asylum hotel that be open by the last Conservative Government , with legitimate concern about the future of that site , and the impact on they of thing like protest on their front doorstep . will the Home Secretary reassure my constituent that the policy that she have announce today will speed up the end of the use of that hotel for asylum seeker ? will she meet I to discuss the impact of such site on local resident in Gloucester ? I can tell my hon . friend that we will end the use of asylum hotel . we will close the asylum hotel that the previous Government open , include in his constituency ; it be hugely important that we do . he be right to talk about our long history of people from across the country support refugee . they include the more than 100 , 000 family who come forward to offer home to Ukrainians at the beginning of Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . that spirit and those value be immensely important , but people need to know that the system be be properly control and manage , and that misuse be be tackle . that be why it be so important to end the use of asylum hotel . it be clear that the Government have lose control . the Government be go against their own election manifesto by take the issue through the court . I have ask this question before but not have an answer , so I ask it again : can the Home Secretary give I a date when the hotel in my constituency of Broxbourne will close to illegal asylum seeker ? we have be clear that we will end the use of the asylum hotel that be open by the previous Government ; we will close those asylum hotel . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will support our reform to the appeal system , so that we can speed they through Parliament and clear the backlog . I hope that he support the increase in decision make that we have to introduce after his party freeze decision making , create a soar backlog that would have increase the number of people in hotel . I also hope that he will support the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which be pass through the other place and will bring in strong counter - terrorism power , enable we to go after the criminal gang who be organise the small boat ; sadly , his party be still oppose the Bill . we must stop criminal gang launch illegal crossing from the french coast . will the Home Secretary update we on her conversation with the french authority to ensure that their tactic include intervene in shallow water , so that they stop as many of these boat as possible at source ? the french Government have be undertake a maritime review , and the Interior Minister have be strongly pursue the issue to ensure that there can be intervention in french water . criminal gang operate taxi - boat tactic to load people on to the boat in shallow water , result in some of the disgraceful scene that we have see , so the maritime review be look at way to intervene in shallow water to prevent the boat crossing in the first place . alongside that , there be the extension of the Compagnie de Marche and the additional patrol along french beach that have be agree , as well as the new judicial prosecution unit in Dunkirk , which be now work closely with the Border Security Command . these be part of the important foundation for strengthen law enforcement . whatever the promise tinker with article 8 , the reality be that this Government , or any Government , will only get a grip on out - of - control illegal immigration by quit the echr . I agree that article 8 be a problem , but the answer be article 58 , which allow the Government to serve notice that they be leave the echr . unless and until they do that , we be not go to solve this problem . how do the Home Secretary hope to sort out this mess while she every action be subject to the foreign stipulation and , ultimately , the foreign Court that be diligently apply the ECHR to which she cling ? do that not mean that we go round endlessly in a circle ? will the appeal panel be subject to judicial review , during which , again , the ECHR can be rely on ? have international law and abide by it have help we to get new agreement to return people who arrive by small boat . it be also help we to work with other european country on return hub , so that we can increase return . I think there be a problem with the way that article 8 be be interpret in the court ; that be why I have be clear that reform be need . we will bring those forward in a major package of reform to the asylum system before the end of this year . the Conservatives and Reform appear to be engage in competitive populism , and one of the consequence of that be opportunism . do my right hon . friend agree that it be surprising that they pose as the party who be on the side of local democracy when it come to asylum hotel ? can she confirm that not only do the current shadow Home Secretary decide in March 2020 to suspend the practice of consult local authority before open asylum hotel in their area , but that the practice remain suspend for the rest of the time that the Conservatives be in government , even after the emergency of the pandemic end ? my hon . friend be right . the shadow Home Secretary not only lift the responsibility to consult local authority , but vote against amendment put forward by the Labour Opposition at the time to strengthen the work with local authority . this government be strengthen that work with local authority instead . all the shadow Home Secretary and the shadow Justice Secretary seem to do be chase each other ' s tail to try to get to the next photo opportunity first , or chase the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . it be just more chaos from the opposition party . it be not populist to want safe and secure community , but we be go round in circle . the only way we be go to solve this crisis be by withdraw from outdated refugee convention , rescind the insidious echr from our law , and use british military asset to prevent incursion into british water . will the Home Secretary commit to do that today ? I point out to the hon . member that his party be in power during eight year in which criminal gang be able to take hold along the border and undermine our border security . it should be government , not gang , who decide who enter our country . we need the counter - terrorism power to go after those criminal gang , and the hon . Gentleman and his party be still vote against they . shameful ! it can not be deny that we have inherit a very difficult position , and that there have recently be a real increase in the rhetoric on this issue , which be cause serious worry , upset , anger and mistrust in our community . many vital measure to tackle this organise crime , such as counter - terror - style power against gang , a new offence on endangerment at sea , ban sex offender from the asylum system and power to search phone , be stick in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . do my right hon . friend agree that if the Tories and Reform be really serious about these change , they would stop vote and organise against the Bill , put their constituent and my constituent at the heart of this matter , and let we put the Bill into force ? my hon . friend be exactly right . the Tories and Reform could start work with we tomorrow to speed up the passage of this crucial legislation , which would give our law enforcement counter - terrorism power to go after smuggler gang . these new offence would mean that they could download and search the mobile phone of people arrive on small boat and , crucially , ban sex offender from the asylum system altogether . you would think that the opposition party would support that ; instead , they have be block the Bill . that be shameful . our country should be proud of the fact that in the 1930 we welcome 10 , 000 jewish child from Europe on the Kindertransport . alas , our predecessor would not countenance bring across those child ' s parent , and we know that the cost of that decision be the massacre of those parent in the Holocaust . there have always be vocal opposition to migration in this country , but I remind the government that responsibility lie with they . across our country today , thousand of vulnerable refugee be afraid ; they be afraid of the rise in right - wing activity and in right - wing rhetoric — rhetoric that this Government have flirt with . I invite the Government not to follow the conservative party or Reform UK into the abyss and to treat this issue with the compassion it deserve . the hon . member refer to the Kindertransport and the important support for child it provide . the UK also take orphan jewish child from concentration camp and provide they with a home and a future in the UK . we have a long history of support those who have flee persecution and conflict , and that be exactly why it be so important that the system be properly manage and control and that we tackle the chaos we have inherit and strengthen our border security , in order to restore confidence in the very system and value that the hon . member describe . this government will never pursue the violence - promote rhetoric that can cause such division . we will always be responsible and serious about the practical step that need to be take to deal with the chaos we inherit . I warmly welcome the content of the Home Secretary ' s statement , particularly the UK - France migrant deal , which provide a safe and legal route for all those family who be genuinely flee persecution and who play by the rule and want to enter the country legally . the deal balance that with the need to remove from this country and send back to France those who try to jump the queue in small boat . the shadow Home Secretary suggest that the potential figure of 50 return a week under this pilot scheme be not enough . under the last government , 128 , 000 people cross the channel ; can the Home Secretary remind the House how many of those people be return to France ? it be not 50 a week or 100 a week — it be zero a week , every week for six and a half year . my hon . friend be exactly right . the previous Government make a whole series of grand but empty claim . they return no one to France who have arrive on a small boat — they have no agreement in place to do so — and they also send no one to Rwanda , other than four volunteer who be pay to go . again and again , all the previous Government do be escalate the rhetoric and the chaos , rather than take the practical step necessary to get the return we need . in her statement , the Home Secretary set out that the Government would establish an independent body to process asylum appeal . that will work only if it be deliver at pace , resource and well - staff , so can she set out when that independent body will start recruit arbitrator and support staff and when it will be operate at full pelt ? will it operate seven day a week ? if in a year ' s time we come back from next summer ' s recess with immigration rate high than this year ' s , will the Home Secretary take personal responsibility for that ? we be seek accelerate legislation to bring in the new independent appeal commission . the hon . Gentleman will know that once that legislation begin its passage through the House , it will be possible to start implementation and make sure we can invest in get the train adjudicator in place . we will provide an update before the end of this year , both on the timetable and on the further detail of how that appeal system will work . obviously , it have to be fully independent of the Home Office and of the Government , but it need to be able to surge and respond swiftly in order to prevent the growth of huge backlog . I really hope that the hon . Gentleman and his party will be able to support that legislation , because if they do so , we will be able to move it through much more quickly and implement the new body much more quickly . I call Dr Scott Arthur . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I have forget how much I enjoy bob . we all want to be proud of the UK ' s asylum system , but because of the mess we inherit from the previous Government , none of we be there right now ; that be just a fact . I thank the Home Secretary for the methodical work that she be do to get a grip of the situation and get the system back on track . it really pain I , though , that some of the people who be behind this mess be now sit on the Opposition Benches and seek to weaponise it , rather than apologise to the country . do the Home Secretary share my hope that extend the ukrainian visa scheme and the refugee student scheme , bring Gaza student here and support injure Gazan child will provide a chance to show the UK immigration system at its good ? I hope the Conservatives will support Gazan student be able to take up their place and scholarship in the UK , just as I hope they will also support the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which they be still oppose . the Government appear to be conflate the term " illegal immigrant " and " asylum seeker . " the UK have rightly in the past take in asylum seeker , include Ukrainians flee persecution , but they be different from those who be cross the channel illegally , the vast majority of whom be man age 20 to 30 who appear to have no child or family cross with they . I have three question for the Home Secretary : do she agree with the Prime Minister ' s comment that the UK have plenty of housing to accommodate illegal immigrant ; will she rule out the use of house of multiple occupation ; and will she rule out the use of social housing for illegal immigrant ? give what the hon . Member say about crossing , I hope he will support the french pilot agreement , which mean we can return to France people who make these dangerous or illegal journey and in exchange have a legal process for people who apply properly , follow the rule and go through security check . we have be clear that the way to tackle the chaos in the asylum system be to end asylum hotel , but to do so by reduce the overall number of people in the asylum accommodation system , and that include sort out the appeal chaos we inherit from the hon . member ' s party . the Home Secretary be right to emphasise that respect for each other and respect for the rule of law be fundamental british value , and they be underpin by our robust human right framework , which underscore and protect individual liberty . Winston Churchill know that , which be why he be such a supporter of the european convention on human right after world war two . will the Home Secretary do all she can to protect our human right framework from those on the Opposition Benches who would tear it up for a cheap headline , by campaign as hard as she can to make sure that the ECHR be fit for the 21st century , restore public confidence ? my hon . friend be right that we need reform , but we also need to recognise that international law can help to underpin international co - operation . the criminal gang operate across border and exploit the fact that too often government and law enforcement agency do not operate across border in order to go after they . that be why we need that international co - operation in place , underpin by a legal framework . the national conversation on immigration and asylum be be dominate loudly by colleague in this place who have a sorry track record of stir up division and dehumanising people seek sanctuary from some of the world ' s harsh regime and conflict . many of my constituent have raise their fear with I this summer . give that immigration have soar since we leave the European Union , do the Home Secretary agree that the architect of the damaging Brexit campaign be probably the people least likely to have the answer to the small boat crossing , and that we must do all we can to emphasise the benefit and value that migrant bring to the UK , as they have do for century ? the conservative party in government manage to create chaos in the asylum system and let criminal gang take over along our border while illegal migration quadruple in the space of just four year . immigration have always be an important part of our history , and that be why it need to be properly control and manage in a fair and sensible way , which have not happen too often in the past . it need to be serious and respectful to other people , to make sure that we as a country come together at the same time as make sure there be proper control in the system . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . do she accept that the frustration many feel about illegal immigration must never be confuse with opinion about those who come and add to our society in the NHS , in agriculture and in many other job where we rely on help from foreign national ? do the Home Secretary not accept that the route to the UK from the Republic of Ireland through Northern Ireland be feed that frenzy ? will she finally rightfully close the current loophole and block the back - door access to the United Kingdom from the Republic of Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman be right that people have long support those come to work in our NHS through legal route . those route have to be control and manage , however , and migration quadrupling under the previous Government be a serious problem . that be why we be bring legal migration down ; that be why we put that in the immigration White Paper . the hon . Gentleman be also right that some of the most serious concern be about dangerous and illegal boat crossing that be underpin and facilitate by criminal gang . he raise a separate issue about Ireland and Northern Ireland , but he will know that the common travel area be a long - stand part of our history and arrangement . we have close security co - operation with the Irish Government and irish law enforcement for exactly that reason , and it be an important part of the arrangement and the close relationship between our country . that conclude the statement . I thank the Home Secretary and Members for their time . the Home Secretary have be on her foot for around two and a half hour and we have have over 80 back - Bench contribution . I will now give the House a few moment to settle and for the Front - Bench team to swap over . Middle East 5 . 56 pm with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on the situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territories and Iran . in Gaza , the situation on the ground be unimaginably bleak . horrify image and account will be sear into the mind of colleague across this House . they be almost impossible to put into word , but we can and must be precise with our language , because on 22 August the United Nations - back IPC mechanism confirm what we be witness : famine — famine in Gaza city ; famine in its surround neighbourhood now spread across the wide territory ; famine which , if unchecked , will spiral into widespread starvation . this be foresee : it be the terrible conclusion of the obstacle we have warn about for over six month . since 1 July , over 300 people have die from malnutrition , include 119 child . More than 132 , 000 child under the age of five be at risk of die from hunger by June next year . this be not a natural disaster ; it be a man - make famine in the 21st century , and I be outrage by the israeli Government ' s refusal to allow in sufficient aid . we need a massive humanitarian response to prevent more death , crucial non - governmental organisation , humanitarian and health worker to be allow to operate , and stockpile of aid on Gaza ' s border to be release . in the past three month , more than 2 , 000 gazan have be kill try to feed their family , and Hamas themselves be exploit the chaos and deliberately starve israeli hostage for abhorrent political purpose . I know that these word of condemnation , echo across legislature all over the world , be not enough , but be in no doubt : we have act as a country where we can . we restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . we suspend arm export that could be use in Gaza . we sign a landmark agreement with the Palestinian Authority . we stand up for the independence of international court . we have deliver three sanction package on violent settler and far - right israeli Ministers for incitement . we have suspend trade negotiation with the israeli Government . we be at the forefront of the international community ' s work to plan for a stable , post - conflict peace . we have now provide more than £ 250 million in development assistance over the past two year . today , we be go far . I can announce an additional £ 15 million of aid and medical care for Gaza and the region . we continue to work alongside regional partner , include Egypt and Jordan , to enable the United Nations and non - governmental organisation to ensure that aid reach those most in need . brave medic in Gaza tell we that essential medicine be run out and they can not operate safely . that be why we be fund UK - Med , whose field hospital have treat more than 600 , 000 Gazans . it be also why we be fund the World Health Organisation in Egypt to treat thousand of evacuated Gazan people . meanwhile , as my right hon . friend the Home Secretary say early , we be work with the World Health Organisation to get critically ill and injured child into the UK , where they will receive specialist NHS treatment . the first patient be expect to arrive in the UK in the come week . extract people from a war zone be , of course , complex and dangerous , and it rely entirely on israeli permission . I be press the israeli Government for that to happen as quickly as possible . we be also support brilliant student grant Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Chevening scholarship and other scholarship to escape Gaza , so that they can take up their place for the come academic year . I recognise that those thing only touch the edge of this catastrophe . we all know that there be only one way out : an immediate ceasefire that would see the unconditional release by Hamas of all hostage and a transformation in the delivery of aid . we know it , our US and european ally know it , and our Gulf partner know it , too . I be work night and day with they to deliver a ceasefire and a wide political process to deliver long - term peace . to make a ceasefire last , we need a monitoring mechanism , the disarmament of Hamas and a new governance framework for Gaza . that be the focus of our intense diplomacy in the region . in contrast , further military operation in Gaza City will only prolong and deepen the crisis . together with our partner , we demand an immediate halt to the operation . each week bring new horror . last week ' s double strike on Nasser hospital — one of Gaza ' s last remain major health facility — kill 20 people , include five journalist . I remind Israel once again that international law require the protection of healthcare worker , journalist and civilian . these action will not end the war , and they will not bring the hostage home , let alone make they safe , as hostage family have recognise . such action will sow despair and anger across the region for generation . in the west bank , the israeli Government be tighten their stranglehold on the palestinian economy and continue to approve illegal settlement construction , include just recently in the E1 area east of Jerusalem . that would erect a physical barrier to the contiguous palestinian state , and it must not happen . in July , I describe before the UN General Assembly our intention to recognise the state of Palestine later this month , unless the israeli Government take substantive step to end the appalling situation in Gaza and commit to a long - term sustainable peace . that commitment respond to the current crisis , but stem from our historic responsibility to the region ' s security , reach back over a century to the Balfour declaration . as I say last month in New York , I be deeply proud that it be a british Foreign Secretary who help establish a homeland for the jewish people , but the same declaration promise that " nothing shall be do which may prejudice the civil and religious right " of the palestinian people . those right be more under threat than at any point in the past century . to those who say recognition reward Hamas or threaten israeli security , it do neither . Recognition be root in the principle of a two - state solution , which Hamas reject . we have be clear that any palestinian state should be demilitarise . indeed , President Abbas have confirm that in writing . we see no contradiction between the two - state solution and our deep commitment to israeli security , because security come from stable border , not indefinite occupation . before I finish , I would also like to update the House on Iran . on 28 August , the UK , along with France and Germany , trigger the snapback mechanism under UN Security Council resolution 2231 . that mean that if no new agreement be reach within 30 day , the sanction that be lift under the Iran nuclear deal — the joint comprehensive plan of action — will come back into force . those wide - range sanction include a full arm embargo and restriction on Iran ' s nuclear , missile and drone programme . it be not a decision we take lightly . for year , we have work with international partner to stop Iran from develop a nuclear weapon . the 2015 deal be mean to do just that , but Iran have repeatedly undermine the agreement . Iran ' s stockpile of enriched uranium be now 40 time over the limit set by the JCPOA . despite that clear escalation , we have make every effort over year of negotiation to bring Iran back to compliance . those effort have continue in recent month . I have urge Foreign Minister Araghchi to de - escalate and choose diplomacy . in July , we offer Iran more time if it agree to return to negotiation with the US and restore full access to the International Atomic Energy Agency . last month , I warn Iran that time be short and we would have little choice but to trigger snapback . I regret to inform the House that Iran have not comply with its legal obligation , nor choose the path of diplomacy , so we have have no choice but to act . I have long be clear that I will not allow snapback to expire without a durable and comprehensive deal . it would be unacceptable to allow this issue to fall off the UN Security Council agenda , despite the threat pose by Iran ' s nuclear programme . snapback be not the end of diplomacy , as Secretary Rubio have also recently underline . Iran can still meet our condition . it can restore full iaea access and address our concern about its stockpile and enrichment , and it can return to negotiation . alongside our partner , I will continue to urge Iran to choose that path . in the bad of time , this Government will continue to take all the step that we can to alleviate suffering , to help bring regional conflict to an end and to create the condition for long - term peace and security . we will not rest until there be a ceasefire in Gaza , the hostage be return , and a flood of aid reach those in desperate need . despite the obstacle before we , we will work with partner to preserve the two - state solution . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary , who can speak for up to six and a half minute . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . let I also express my sympathy for the people of Afghanistan who be suffer as a result of last night ' s major earthquake . since the House last meet , the awful conflict in the middle east have continue to see life lose , with intolerable suffering . Hamas continue to refuse the release of all remain hostage , despite the good effort of those try to broker peace . the hostage be now approach 700 day in captivity , and the whole House will have be sicken by the harrowing clip of the emaciated hostage Evyatar David , which be release by Hamas over the summer . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be dire , and we be all familiar with the report that we have see daily on news channel . the inhumane suffering , the recent airstrike and the inability to provide food for civilian simply can not go on . we all want an urgent and sustainable end to this conflict . we want to see the release of the hostage from terrorist captivity , and to see aid for the people of Gaza . there be key question for the British Government to answer . the british Government be in a position to help influence those outcome , but be they actually fully leverage their ability to do so ? the Government ' s frequent statement have so far not move the dial close to a sustainable end to the conflict , and , as the Foreign Secretary himself have say , we be not in a position to see any alleviation of this horrendous situation . diplomacy be about put in the hard yard to find solution , not just about give statement , and I therefore want to ask the Foreign Secretary three specific question . first , be the Government take any new specific action to tighten the screw on Hamas and pile more pressure on they to release the hostage ? should we expect more measure to far degrade Hamas ' s ability to finance their campaign of terror ? why be the Government not lead international effort to produce a credible plan to do exactly that , with an agreement from all the key regional partner and player with an interest in peace to see Hamas leave Gaza ? secondly , can the Foreign Secretary update the House on precisely where we stand and what Britain be contribute to the effort of the United Nations and our regional ally to broker the release of hostage , and to an end of the conflict ? be we intimately involved , and be we send in the UK expertise to help , give that we have great expertise when it come to broker negotiation of this kind ? thirdly , while we note the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement yesterday about support for woman and girl , the Government have yet to make essential breakthrough on aid . minister must obviously work around the clock with everyone — with all our partner , include the Israelis and multinational institution — to unblock the situation by come up with practical solution , even new solution , on which all side can focus when it come to get medical and food aid into Gaza . that must provide a significant increase in food and medical supply reach civilian while also address israeli concern about aid diversion , because those concern be constant . be the UK work with the multilateral body to try to mediate in the division and breakdown of trust that have emerge with the Government of Israel ? be the Foreign Secretary consider scheme similar to those implement by the Conservative Government , such as the float pier that , work with the United States and Cyprus , we put in place off the coast of Gaza to get aid in ? we need pragmatic and practical solution to get food and medical supply to innocent civilian in Gaza . let I now turn to labour ' s decision to recognise a palestinian state . the Government announce that huge shift in british policy just day after the House go into recess . we all support a two - state solution that guarantee security for both Israelis and Palestinians , but the Foreign Secretary must know that recognise a palestinian state in September will not secure the last peace that we all want to see . Recognition be meaningful only if it be part of a formal peace process , and it should not happen while the hostage be still be hold in terrorist captivity and while Hamas ' s reign of terror continue . can the Foreign Secretary explain his plan to go ahead with recognition while hostage be still be hold , and while Hamas , who have predictably welcome and be embolden by this move , continue to hold on to power in Gaza ? what practical measure be we propose to remove Hamas from Gaza ? the Foreign Secretary must realise that recognition will not secure the release of the hostage or get aid into Gaza immediately . we must always consider what tool of leverage we have in respect of future peace process and negotiation that could actually help to establish a two - state solution and peace in the middle east . how will this unilateral action help to advance the good shot that we have at achieve a two - state solution , which be the expansion of the Abraham accord and saudi normalisation , through which we could also calibrate our action ? as for the question of the middle east more broadly , the appalling behaviour of the iranian regime have go on for too long , and the regime have bring the initiation of the snapback process on itself . the iranian people deserve much well . Tehran must never obtain a nuclear weapon , and conservative remain clear about the fact that the recent US strike be necessary . can the Foreign Secretary tell we whether he believe that Iran have the capability and the intention of recommence its nuclear programme , and whether his assumption be that the snapback process will be see through to completion ? can he tell we whether or not he welcome Israel ' s action regard the Houthi leadership in Yemen , and can he update the House on how the UK will use this moment to far degrade the Houthis ' ability to carry out the attack and strike that we have see recently ? I be grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for the tone of her remark . I be pleased that she agree with I and , indeed , share the sentiment of the entire House on the dire — as she describe it — humanitarian situation in Gaza and the inhumanity that she also describe . she will recognise that even before we come to power , the last Government be call for the ceasefire that we all want to see . the right hon . Lady ask what the Government be do in relation to Hamas . in New York , with our arab partner , the French and other , we be do just that — support the Prime Minister ' s framework for peace , and work with colleague to establish the circumstance of the day after . we have be crystal clear : there can be no role for Hamas . we need the demilitarisation of Gaza , and we be work with partner to try to set up the trusteeship , the new governance arrangement with Gaza . no Government be do more than we be . we sign a memorandum of understanding with the Palestinian Authority , and we be work with it on reform in a deliberate , day - to - day action , because there must be a role for it subsequently . the right hon . Lady ask what new solution on aid might be find . that be where I depart with her sentiment , because I be not sure that we need new solution . we need the old one : the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , the United Nations Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs , and the World Food Programme . they exist , so let we support they . it be this party that restore funding to UNRWA when it be oppose by the Opposition . let I say gently to the right hon . Lady that that be not what feed woman and girl . the mechanism be there , and they work all over the globe . this work the last time we have a ceasefire , when as many as 600 truck a day go in , and we can do it once more . that be the position of the UK Government . I speak to Tom Fletcher at the United Nations this morning to get the late . the moderately good news be that the number of truck movement in August be high than it be when I last update the House in July , as the House be go into recess , but he remind I that 60 or 70 truck a day be nowhere near the number need . I find the extra resource today because we know that the medical situation be dire , and the work that we can do with UK - Med be so important and so value even when we be up against this horrific situation . let I be crystal clear : Hamas be a terrorist organisation . our demand be unconditional and have not change . the hostage must be release without delay , and there can be no role for Hamas . but equally , the right hon . Lady will have see the situation in the west bank . she do not comment on the e1 development run a coach and horse through the idea of two state , which have be the united position of every single party in this Chamber . that be why we set out the plan for recognition . unless we get the breakthrough that we need on the ceasefire and a full process , we will move to recognition when UNGA meet in New York . I be grateful for the right hon . Lady ' s support on Iran and the snapback . my assessment be that no country need the percentage of enriched uranium that we see in Iran . we do not have they in our country . we do not have they at site like Sellafield and other , include the Urenco site . there be absolutely no need for they . we need a baseline , and that be why we need the inspector back in . we need to know where the highly enriched uranium have go , and that be why we have be very clear with the Iranians on the need to trigger snapback . we will see the sanction come back unless we can reach a diplomatic solution in the next 30 day . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I read with alarm yesterday ' s report in the Washington Post detail a plan for the future of Gaza that be circulate among the Trump Administration . they call it the " great " plan . it propose the total transformation of Gaza into a tourist region — a high - tech hub under temporary US administration . what be go to happen to the Gazans ? well , 2 million of they will be temporarily relocate to other country , include Somaliland and South Sudan . force population transfer be contrary to , and a complete violation of , international humanitarian law . serious thought must be give to the day after for Gaza , and my Committee recommend as much in our report that be publish in July , but this unserious , illegal and deeply dystopian plan can not be the sum of that thinking . what be the Government do to dissuade Donald Trump from follow this path ? what , alongside regional and european ally , be we do to put forward a serious plan for a peaceful future in Israel , Gaza and the west bank that be ready for the day after this terrible war finally come to an end ? I be very grateful to my right hon . friend — my dear friend — for her remark , and I commend the work of her Committee on the day after and the thoroughness of approach that be require . I have read the report , but it be speculative stuff that I have see in different news article ; it be not a comprehensive approach . in my discussion with the US system , I have see nothing confirm along the line of what she say . the day after require the removal of Hamas ; it can not be about the further displacement of the Gazan people . it be go to require a degree of finance and stability , which I think will require other state , particularly arab partner . they would set themselves against the sort of report I have see in the paper . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , who have up to three minute for his remark . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . I welcome the robust approach of the E3 in initiate the snapback mechanism in response to Iran ' s nuclear ambition and programme , which be in breach of its undertaking . the Foreign Secretary ' s statement on 21 July shock this House , and we have a long debate about the situation in Gaza , yet the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza and the west bank have deteriorate even far since then , as he have acknowledge . we have see hundred more Palestinians kill while seek aid ; famine declare in the strip ; a chronic lack of medical supply , attest to by UK medics volunteering in Nasser hospital ; the start of IDF operation in Gaza City ; and the image of emaciated hostage still hold in brutal captivity by Hamas terrorist . the human suffering be indeed beyond comprehension , yet the extremist be indifferent . Hamas terrorist publish video intend to torment the family of hostage . cabinet member Ben - Gvir and Smotrich advocate for the forced displacement of Palestinians . in Israel , the Hostages and Missing Families Forum and Opposition party call for an end to the violence . in the UK , our constituent be desperate for the same . the bloodshed can be stop only by decisive action — action that I regret the Government have so far fail to take . the Prime Minister be wrong in principle to condition the recognition of Palestine on the action of the Netanyahu Government , and wrong in practice , as he have be ignore . will the Foreign Secretary confirm today that the UK will recognise Palestine later this month at the UN ? the Government must learn a lesson and now apply relentless pressure on the Netanyahu Government , so the Liberal Democrats call today on the Foreign Secretary to finally sanction Prime Minister Netanyahu for expand his military campaign and pursue the illegal expansion of the e1 settlement , and to take the step necessary to ban the export of all UK arm to Israel , include F - 35 component . will he also make representation to the qatari government to demand that they exile Hamas from their political headquarters unless they agree to the release of all the hostage immediately and unconditionally ? the Foreign Secretary bemoan that word be not enough to alleviate the suffering . he acknowledge that the Government have fail to move the combatant , yet there be one man who could unlock progress . Donald Trump have the power to secure peace in Gaza , if he choose to , by pick up the phone to Netanyahu . will the Foreign Secretary tell the House how he will use his special relationship with Vice President Vance to help secure that goal , and will the Government commit to make a ceasefire in Gaza a priority during President Trump ' s state visit ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his remark , particularly on Iran . he be absolutely right to place at the centre the 15 , 000 people who have be injure in Gaza while simply seek aid , and the more than 2 , 000 who have die seek aid . it be totally unacceptable , and he be right to remind the House about the position of the hostage family , who be crystal clear that they do not want to see further military endeavour and operation in Gaza City . what they want be a ceasefire , and they fear that far military endeavour will actually harm their love one far , not succeed in bring they home . the hon . Gentleman criticise our position on recognition . I ask he to reflect on that , because it must be right that the Government continue to give diplomacy an opportunity as we head to the UN alongside other partner . surely he would want we to be work with our french , australian and canadian partner as we head to that gathering at UNGA , and surely he would want to see the Israelis commit to a ceasefire , commit to a process and end the war . all of that be what we be seek to do as we make an assessment of where we have get to in the come week . I reassure he that of course I raise the issue of Gaza with all level of the US Administration . I do raise the situation in Gaza with Vice President Vance early in the summer and with Secretary of State Rubio , and I have speak to envoy Steve Witkoff in the last 24 hour to get an update on this fast - move situation . direct sale of F - 35s to Israel be ban , and the hon . Gentleman know that we ban arm that could go to the IDF for use in Gaza . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement on palestinian statehood and the additional aid announce for Gaza , as well as the recent work to evacuate student and child in need of medical treatment . however , the world ' s foremost group of genocide scholar have say that " Israel ' s policy and action in Gaza meet the legal definition of genocide in Article ii of the United Nations Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide " . this be against the backdrop of Israel continue to bombard Gaza , continue to target and kill journalist , and continue its policy of annex the entire territory , with trumpian vision of a Gaza where the self - determination of Palestinians be little more than a real estate opportunity . do the Foreign Secretary agree with I that this monumental resolution by genocide scholar should now trigger our responsibility to act ? I say to my hon . friend that we continue to do all we can to bring the horrific suffering in this war to an end . of course I recognise what legal scholar be say about the conflict and in relation to genocide . that must be , appropriately , a matter for the legal system , but I think the whole world look on what be happen with deep , deep concern , and in every legislature across the world there be condemnation . I call Rishi Sunak . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I know that the whole House will want to join I in wish you a very happy birthday . I warmly welcome and support what the Foreign Secretary say about Iran , and in particular the joint E3 statement on impose snapback sanction . Tehran be a threat not just to regional security , but here at home , and he will know that our security service have foil over 20 different iranian - back plot . he will have see today that Russia and China have join in a letter say that they will work with Tehran in the UN to thwart snapback sanction . could he update the House on the work we will do with our ally on enforcement and , crucially , make it clear to company and bank that there will be severe consequence for those that break the sanction ? I be grateful to the former Prime Minister for his work on the Iran file and for the cross - party consensus that exist in the House in this area . as he know , we work hand in glove with our french and german counterpart , in particular , and it be on that basis — the so - call E3 — that we urge Iran to take we seriously , and to go back to the negotiation table with the US and let the inspector back in . the Iranians still have an opportunity over the next 30 day , and we will of course do everything we can within the UN system to urge our russian and chinese friend to take seriously the solemn commitment , which we make in the 20th century and continue to back in this one , that we must stop nuclear proliferation . this be not a personal issue ; it be a global issue of huge concern . the International Association of Genocide Scholars have pass a resolution state that " Israel ' s policy and action in Gaza meet the legal definition of genocide " . I understand that the Foreign Secretary do not comment on these matter from the Dispatch Box , so I instead want to ask what action and effort this Government be take , alongside international partner , to ensure that evidence be collect and that matter be in hand to ensure that legal avenue can be pursue to address allegation of war crime , crime against humanity and genocide in Gaza ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for recognise that that must rightly be a matter for lawyer , but I reassure she that we do fund and support organisation on the ground in gather evidence . that be much easy in the west bank than it currently be in Gaza . at this Dispatch Box , I have say time and again that I think it be important that the Israelis let international journalist in to monitor the situation . I think that be hugely important . where we can , we will continue to support journalist , organisation and federation to monitor and support that work , and we of course support a lot of NGOs on the ground . far to the answer the Foreign Secretary have just give , do he share my horror that , among the thousand of civilian death that have occur in Gaza , it be estimate that at least 200 journalist have be kill , some of they deliberately target ? do he agree that those of we who be supporter of Israel ' s right to defend itself need to tell the israeli Government that this be unacceptable and can not continue ? I associate myself entirely with the right hon . Gentleman ' s remark . it be not only unacceptable ; it also diminish the israeli Government in the eye of young people across the globe who look at this with horror and can not understand it , so I urge they to just step back and recognise the damage they be do to their reputation collectively . attempt to settle the e1 area of the west bank , split palestinian area in two , " bury the idea of a palestinian state " , in the word of an israeli Government Minister , by the end of this month . would the Secretary of State commit to a further co - ordinate response with european partner over the come week to ensure that those destructive plan be halt ? yes , yes , yes . I have spend time in Bedouin village that would be entirely go as a result of these abysmal plan , so of course I will continue to work with partner to oppose they . in May the Government reveal in court that they , the Executive , have make recent assessment of the risk of breach of international humanitarian law in Gaza . I say breach , but the Government reveal that they have find only one possible breach of IHL among ten of thousand of airstrike in Gaza across 11 month . surely this prove that the fcdo do not have the capacity to properly assess all the possible breach of IHL in Gaza . it be axiomatic that the hon . Gentleman be wrong . I make an assessment back in September that there be a clear risk — that be base on IHL assessment — and for that reason we suspend arm sale to Gaza . the machinery of government be work very well in the assessment we be able to make , notwithstanding how difficult it of course be to get all the evidence that be necessary . the famine in Gaza be clearly man - make and it be abominable . that ten of thousand of civilian have be brutally kill be abominable . the retention of the hostage by Hamas , and even the retention of the body of those who have pass away , be equally abominable . we can all see what be happen in Gaza and what be happen in the west bank , and this can not be allow to continue . what more message can we send to Netanyahu and the israeli Government to say that the two - state solution be the only way forward ? it be the only way to guarantee peace and security in the middle east , which every single innocent civilian deserve , and to stop the increase illegal settlement in the west bank . I want to associate myself with the remark of my hon . friend , and I congratulate she on her recent wedding . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] she be absolutely right because there seem to be those in the israeli Government who either want to see one state , in which case it be incumbent on they to be clear about how everyone in that one state have equality before the law , or want to see no state perpetuate forever . we must stand against that because it be not in the interest of Israel be safe and secure , and it be fundamentally against the interest of the palestinian people , because the desire for two state be a just cause and one that we must stand behind . what action will his Majesty ' s Government take if the Government of Israel proceed with their plan to build in the e1 corridor ? I be not go to get ahead of my ski . we continue to work with partner internationally on make those assessment . I speak to the israeli Foreign Minister and be very clear that we stand against that . the right hon . Gentleman will recall that when these plan surface the previous Government stand against the e1 development . at that time , I think the Government ' s position be that they would recognise if they go ahead . we will continue to make that assessment , but I hope we can see the plan put to one side . last month , along with eight party leader across Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales , I write to the Prime Minister about the catastrophic situation in Gaza and the deficit in the UK response to the unbearable suffering we be see — biblical level of injustice , pain and hunger . do the Foreign Secretary recognise the parallel crisis in the belief of ordinary people across England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland in international law and in the UK ' s response ? People be not see their value reflect in the UK ' s action in the continued supply of arm , the failure to levy all possible sanction , and the string attach to the recognition of the state of Palestine . can I just be clear ? there be a lot of mendacity in some of the sort of stuff we see on TikTok . we have stop the sale of arm to Israel . we have stop the direct sale of F - 35s to Israel . Germany only just recently make the decision that we make last September . the UK represent 1 % of sale ; 90 % be Germany and the US system . there be many other government that supply and that have not make the decision we have make . on recognition , we will continue to work with partner as we head towards the UN General Assembly and make the necessary assessment . the Foreign Secretary , in his statement , outline all the step that this Government have take against the Netanyahu Government . he have also repeatedly say that the UK have do everything it can . in my mind , both be tacit admittance of defeat , as we have see the Netanyahu Government increase their activity in Gaza , and increase their prosecution and persecution of the Gazan people . if we have do so much and have no effect , and if there be nothing leave to do , what do he expect to change before the UN General Assembly meeting and why should we not immediately recognise a palestinian state ? diplomacy be fail until it succeed , so I be not go to give in to the hon . Gentleman ' s pessimism . and can I just say that Prime Minister Mustafa , after I have complete my statement at the UN , walk up to I and give I a warm embrace . we continue to work alongside the Palestinian Authority as we make these fine judgment . I welcome the Government ' s decision to trigger the snapback mechanism to address the iranian regime ' s nuclear ambition . follow arrest in May relate to a suspect Iranian - back terror plot , my constituent in High Peak — and , indeed , three - quarter of Labour voter — want to see action on the terror threat pose by Tehran on the street in the UK . will the Foreign Secretary provide an update on the Government ' s progress in proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a terrorist group ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise that question . he will know that , alongside the Home Secretary , we commission work from Jonathan Hall on the specific issue of state threat . we will be come forward with further plan in the come month . the Foreign Secretary have just say : " on the ground , it be unimaginably bleak . horrify image and account will be sear into the mind of colleague across this House . they be almost impossible to put into word . but we can and must be precise with our language . " I agree . it be a genocide , isn ' t it ? I do not know whether the right hon . Gentleman be legally qualified , but there be many lawyer who take that view . as he know , we make an assessment , base on a clear risk of a breach of international humanitarian law , that mean we suspend arm sale that could be use in Gaza . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . Benjamin Netanyahu ' s blockade and weaponisation of starvation have plunge Gaza into famine . that be why the UN Secretary - General have describe this man - make catastrophe as a " failure of humanity " . while child die of hunger , the israeli Government continue to deny the existence of starvation in the very territory they seek to occupy . before the summer recess , my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary inform the House about additional aid for Gaza . will he tell we how much of that aid have actually get into Gaza ? what other further urgent step be the Government take to bring this inhumane treatment of the palestinian population to an end ? I reassure my hon . friend that the good news be that the aid we have support be get in . principally , that have be of medical supply , address the dire situation in Gaza . we have also be able to work with the World Food Programme . the World Food Programme appear to be the UN agency that be have the most effect in deliver aid on the ground . it be not sufficient , but it be have some effect . I will be in the region in the come day discuss these issue in further detail . I be afraid that this be another profoundly disappointing statement from the Foreign Secretary that be devoid of anything that be likely to bring a swift end to this conflict . while at home the police have be arrest vicar and grannie , and the Government have be hire american spy plane to fly over Gaza , the Israelis , as the Foreign Secretary himself have say , have intensify their campaign , aggression and the slaughter of innocent in that awful conflict . everything he have say — all his condemnation — have come to nothing . in every statement he have make in this place when I have be here , he have stress the importance of international humanitarian law . why have he be so passive in defend the International Criminal Court in the face of another wave of american sanction ? what step be he go to take to support that institution and the individual who staff it in the face of those sanction ? what discussion have he have with the American Government to get they to reverse the sanction ? it be just wrong to say that the Government have be passive in relation to the ICC . we fund the ICC and continue to support the ICC . I think I raise the ICC in my second meeting with Secretary of State Rubio . we work very closely with our dutch colleague in particular on the ICC . we have be crystal clear on the importance of international humanitarian law . I be afraid the right hon . Gentleman be wrong on this issue . the Foreign Secretary will be aware that increase number of human right expert and genocide scholar assess that Israel ' s action in Gaza equate to a genocide , with famine be deliberately create and hospital be bomb to kill journalist . against that backdrop , the Government be right to recognise the state of Palestine and to do so in a way that try to drive change on the ground . do he share my deep concern at the unacceptable new restriction on visa and registration that be set to shut down the work of the most effective international humanitarian organisation in Gaza ? what action be the Government take to try to prevent that ? my hon . friend be right . it be unacceptable to restrict the ability of aid worker to go about their work in the face of such suffering . I put alongside that another issue I be hugely concerned about , which be the effective starving of the Palestinian Authority of the fund to pay their staff and complete the reform that we be try to work on with they , such that they can never get to a position where they can apply the governance that I know they wish and hope to apply I despair at many aspect of the conduct of the Netanyahu Government and the suffering of Gazan civilian . however , I have grave reservation about the timing of this unilateral recognition of the state of Palestine , because I fear it will allow Hamas to claim that the vile massacre of 7 October have somehow succeed . this concern be share by many of my constituent . what reassurance can the Foreign Secretary give about the choice of timing and the signal that it send ? I will be crystal clear for the right hon . Gentleman . Hamas be a proscribe terrorist organisation , and there can be no future for they in Israel . part of the work that I outline on a framework for peace and on the day after in the region be on how we disarm in Gaza , and how the member of the Hamas leadership who be leave exit Gaza and find a third place to be . there can be no role for Hamas . give what have be say about the e1 development , let we also remember what be happen on the west bank with settler violence , with those who seem totally oppose to two state . we have seek to try to effect change on the ground as we make that assessment . I disagree with the right hon . Gentleman , because the recognition be not unilateral ; we be act together with Canada , Australia and the French , combine for maximum leverage to bring about change on the ground . I welcome the Government ' s intention to recognise formally the state of Palestine at the UN later this month — which many Labour member have push for ever since our election , and which be in our manifesto . it be the big shift in british foreign policy in decade , and a major step forward to give the palestinian people hope that they will have the state they have long be deny . while I welcome the sanction on Iran today , with the famine in Gaza now formally declare , and with 132 , 000 child expect to suffer from acute malnutrition between now and next June , will the Foreign Secretary tell the House whether the UK be actively look at fresh sanction on Israel to prevent that further tragedy ? I can not comment on sanction from the Dispatch Box . I know that my hon . friend have long campaign in his constituency and before his election on the issue of recognition , so I be grateful for his statement on that . I be update on the situation this morning by Tom Fletcher ; as I outline , it be grim , dire and horrendous , which be why we have to work collectively with other partner . I will be back in the region to see what more we can do . this should not really be difficult . we can , as I do , passionately support Israel ' s right to exist securely and in peace , call for the immediate release of the hostage without any string attach and demand the exclusion of Hamas from the post - conflict settlement ; at the same time , we must say , without a shred of equivocation , that the shooting and starving of innocent civilian in Gaza be nothing other than utterly and totally fundamentally evil . there can be no other word for it . why have this Government still fail to sanction Netanyahu and his entire Cabinet ? I hear the strength of passion from the hon . Gentleman , but I urge he to look closely at our sanction policy , which he would struggle to find from any other Government in the develop western world . we have have three package of sanction in the last year alone and two on Government Ministers ; I do not think France have yet sanction Ministers . we have do a considerable amount . order . I know this be a very sensitive subject , but I urge colleague to keep their question short and the Foreign Secretary to keep his answer on point . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement today . Israel ' s decision to escalate operation in Gaza far and to expand far into Gaza City , where famine have officially be declare , show that it simply be not listen to our concern . give that the Government have raise concern over and over again and suspend free trade and some arm licence , it almost seem that Israel be mock our Government . be it time to take further measure to ensure that we fulfil the UK ' s obligation as a third state under international law ? we could be at risk here . I reassure my hon . friend that we be not at risk — we be not complicit . I be a former lawyer , and I study these thing closely . I ask she to look closely at what we have do in relation to other government ; we do not act unilaterally , but I think we be hold up pretty well . I wish the situation on the ground have change . it have not yet change , but we will continue to do everything we can to bring this war to an end . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . the law of armed conflict be hardwire into the behaviour of our military , and we should demand the same of our friend and ally . Israel be our friend and ally . what assurance have the Foreign Secretary therefore have from his colleague in the Ministry of Defence that they have gain from their israeli interlocutor the assurance that we need that the 40 or 50 incident involve the IDF on the west bank and in Gaza since 2023 will be bring to a proper conclusion , and that any wrongdoing be hold to account ? the right hon . Gentleman put his opening remark very well , and I would accord with they . we need proper independent scrutiny of some of this behaviour . we do call for that , by the way , for the awful atrocity involve the World Central Kitchen staff , where british national lose their life , and we await an update from the advocate general . I understand that the Israelis have say there will be an investigation into the incident we see last week , but there be many for which it be not clear that there will be an investigation . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to put this centre stage , which be , of course , something I do when I speak to the israeli Government . I strongly welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s historic move to recognise the state of Palestine and thank he for all the work he have do to progress this issue . while we follow the news from Gaza , let we remember the journalist who have risk their life to bring we the news . my constituent , the former manage director of Al Jazeera English , be now mourn the death of six of his former colleague in a target attack . I , too , be await news from my former Financial Times colleague , who be still stick in Gaza , where he be starve and at risk . will the Foreign Secretary meet I and other medium stakeholder to discuss how we can work together to progress evacuation and support our journalist on the ground ? I be very grateful to journalist and medium worker , who play an essential role in put the spotlight on the devastating reality of war . we be part of the Media Freedom Coalition , and the UK be of course urge Israel to allow immediate independent foreign medium access and to afford protection to journalist . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend on this matter . the israeli Government be clearly hellbent on their horrific plan of eradicate Palestine with their continue and ever - worsen genocide in Gaza , and now their approval of the shocking e1 plan that will divide the west bank and East Jerusalem . how can the Government continue to take no further action when there be so many option open to they ? how many time have we hear the Foreign Secretary say in this Chamber that if thing do not improve and if Israel do not desist , he will take further action , and yet he have not ? when will this Government take action to end UK complicity and end the horror in Palestine ? I say to the hon . Lady that we ban arm sale that could be use in Israel back in September ; Germany do so just a few week ago . we have have three round of sanction against israeli settler and some of the expansion that we be see ; France be yet to do the same . I ask she also to look at the amount of money that this Parliament and this Government have agree to for aid , particularly for medical supply — [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady say there be more , but she do not quite articulate what more she believe we could do . we all want to bring this war to an end — we all want that . it be become a bit too easy to assert that without recognise the work that we be lead globally . start on a positive note , I thank the Foreign Secretary and the Minister for the Middle East for their work to secure an agreement to get student and young people out of Gaza to continue their study . so many of our debate make we feel powerless , but we have demonstrate , at least in one part of this jigsaw , some power to change people ' s life by get they here to study , so I thank they for that . if that be the good of humanity , this summer have also see the bad of humanity , with the forced starvation of hostage and civilian wait at food station . one concern raise by my constituent be whether there will be a Palestine , west bank and Gaza leave to recognise . can the Foreign Secretary reassure we that this Government will strain every muscle to bring the international community together so that we do not just recognise a state of Palestine but start a process that will deliver it on the ground ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question and the way that he be stand up for the people of Peterborough . let I be absolutely clear : we have support the departure of over 500 individual from Gaza since the beginning of the conflict . the Home Secretary have set out what more we be do on UK medical evacuation of child , and there be more to follow in the come week on the Chevening scholar and further student in receipt of full scholarship . we want to support those young people ; they be the future of Gaza . we will do everything we can to defend that two - state solution , to defend a concept that go back a long way , and to recognise the responsibility the UK have because of the Balfour declaration and our obligation to both side of this ancient conflict . like the Secretary of State , I have support a two - state solution for very many year , but there be a slight contradiction when he say that immediate recognition would not be reward Hamas because Hamas would be disarm and a new state would be demilitarise . be he say that the recognition will not go ahead unless and until Hamas be disarm ? if the recognition will go ahead before Hamas be disarm , should it not be confine to those part of Palestine that be currently represent by the Palestinian Authority ? I remind the right hon . gentleman of the letter that President Abbas write to President Macron , where he be clear for the first time that there can be no role for Hamas . we will make the assessment on recognition in the come week , but clearly the e1 settlement have move the dial even far away from where we be a few week ago . Recognition be a process . the Foreign Secretary say that diplomacy fail until it succeed . we have talk often in this House about the tragedy unfolding . as we approach the second anniversary , and as he go to the UN to discuss and agree the recognition of a palestinian state , can he explain to the House what threshold would need to be reach for a UN peacekeeping force to ensure safe passage of food and welfare to those who be starve and die , even as we stand here today ? my hon . friend will understand that the israeli Government have set themselves against some of the UN agency that would need to uphold that , so I think that that feel unlikely from the conversation that we have have , but I do applaud the work of Cindy McCain and the World Food Programme to get essential food to people who need it . the Foreign Secretary choose very carefully his word about arm supply that could be use in Gaza . could he now be a bit clear with the House ? be we still supply part for F - 35 jet that be use to bombard people in Gaza ? be the information gather by plane from RAF Akrotiri fly over Gaza be share with the israeli military force ? thirdly , be RAF Akrotiri be use as a staging point for the delivery of weapon to Israel , in contravention of what he say about arm sale ? do he not realise that if we supply arm to a country that be complicit in war crime , include genocide , we be also complicit in those war crime ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman , who have considerable experience , that it be my job to make sure that we be not complicit . that be why we be not sell arm that could be use in Gaza , and it be why we be not sell direct F - 35 kit to Israel . in term of those reconnaissance flight , I be sure that he would agree that it have be right , certainly up to this point , to support hostage release . the only reason we have offer support be to find those hostage and get they home , and surely he would agree with that . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and his work on this very important matter . over the summer I receive message from Fossie , Joseph and Alice , three child from Eastwood baptist church , among many other message . they express their sadness at the situation in Gaza and want my assurance that we be do all that we can as a Government to bring an end to this horrendous conflict , so I ask he today on their behalf : can he give I that assurance , and be he continue to use all tool and sanction at his disposal ? the answer be , very simply , yes . I be of christian faith , like my hon . friend ' s baptist constituent , but people of all faith and no faith be horrify by what they be see and want the United Kingdom to continue to do all it can to bring this horrify war and suffering to an end . that be what we do every day . I welcome the anticipated recognition of Palestine , expect later this month . of itself it will make no difference on the ground , but I think it be an important piece of symbolism . we hear in an early question about the risk that journalist be face , and we be aware that Israel block many journalist , include the BBC , from enter Gaza . what representation have the Foreign Secretary make to the Israelis about this ? I assure the hon . member that I have make those representation to the israeli Government , and so have the Minister for the Middle East , who sit next to I . I also know that this be a topic of conversation among other Foreign Ministers across the developed world . we think that international journalist play an important part in the landscape and scrutiny of any democratic country . Israel often remind we that it be a democratic country , and it be important to let those journalist in . I have be talk about starvation in Gaza for the last 18 month , and now it be officially recognise as a famine . today I want to raise with the Foreign Secretary the starving of one man : Marwan Barghouti . shortly after we announce the recognition and the israeli Government retaliate , in my view , with the e1 plan , Ben - Gvir enter his cell in an israeli prison , and he be very clearly be starve . it be time that Marwan Barghouti be free by Israel . a man of peace who can push forward the peace process be be starve and not give access to his family , the International Red Cross or his legal team . what more can we do to see his release and enable he to get his human right and not be harass and threaten by Ben - Gvir , who we have sanction ? I be grateful , as I be sure the whole House be , for the update on that situation . I will not comment on the individual case , but when I be make the IHL assessment on a clear risk , which be previously refer to , one of the area that I look at closely and where I do believe there be a clear risk be the treatment of prisoner . I be therefore grateful to my hon . friend for remind the House about those humanitarian concern . be the Foreign Secretary aware of the concern express by his noble friend Lord Hain about the possibility of contract under the Army Collective Trading Service be award to Elbit Systems UK , whose parent company Elbit Systems Ltd market its weapon as be " battle test " in Gaza and on the west bank ? Lord Hain write to the Defence Secretary to say : " award this contract worth an estimate £ 1 . 9 billion to £ 2 . 5 billion would entrench Elbit Systems at the core of the UK ' s defence infrastructure for a full 15 - year period " and that to proceed with the contract would " erode confidence in the integrity of our procurement system " . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Lord Hain ' s comment should be give the full possible consideration and that , if they be show to be of substance , his right hon . friend the Defence Secretary should not be award contract to a company like that ? I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that this be an open procurement . no decision have be make , and no decision will be make until 2026 . the whole House will have hear what he say . I think we all hear the frustration of the Foreign Secretary . he be lead in a way that other nation have not on this challenge , but it be that leadership role that we be look to as a House . I think we all understand that nation individually have limit impact but that pressure can be bring to bear collectively . can he tell we , for example , what more he be do with his colleague in the world community to stand with the israeli opposition to Netanyahu and the israeli hostage call out his murderous behaviour ? the Foreign Secretary come to the House and tell we that the famine be man - make , which be a war crime . what more be he do to report the israeli Government to the ICC or to say that we will recognise Palestine not as a threat but as a statement of positive intent with our colleague ? above all , how be we work with our colleague in Europe ? the honest truth be , not a single child from Gaza who urgently need medical assistance have yet come to the UK , but the European Union and World Health Organisation programme be get child out at pace and at speed . what more could we be do to work with they so that those child could come within day ? they have already be clear by israeli official . no , we must not judge ourselves by other country ; we must judge ourselves by whether we have truly do every single act we can . there be more that we could do . order . lengthy question just deny other colleague the opportunity to speak . I reassure my hon . friend that we be work with our european counterpart . when I speak to Kaja Kallas and other European Foreign Ministers , what I get be the deep frustration that she have hear I express in my answer . I remind my hon . friend of the furth £ 15 million that I have announce today to support humanitarian effort , and in particular the supply of medicine in the area . the decision that I announce at the UN a few week ago be absolutely not unilateral ; they be work with other partner as we make an assessment on the ground of the situation prior to the UNGA . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that he specifically raise delivery of aid in his discussion with his US counterpart ? the United States be a hugely important actor in that regard : it have the potential to be positive in improve the exist arrangement , but it also have the potential to be a blocker . his interaction with the US can make the difference . I recognise the experience that the right hon . Gentleman bring to the Chamber . he will have hear the Prime Minister raise those issue with President Trump in Scotland , and I reassure he that I raise they with Vice President Vance in Kent . I get into a slight problem with a certain sort of fishing licence , but I do raise those issue as well . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for the reminder of the action that the Government have already take , include restore funding to UNRWA , suspend arm export that could be use in Gaza , suspend trade negotiation with the israeli Government and impose sanction package on violent settler and far - right israeli Ministers , but we need to see further action with regard to humanitarian aid get into Gaza , where we be see a man - make famine . do he agree that such action could be take immediately if the israeli Government allow entry to those UN truck on the border of Gaza ? yes , I do — 100 % . the war in Gaza be horrific on a number of different level . I would like to focus on one particular level : it be the deadly conflict for journalist , who often act as our window into atrocity . will the Secretary of State please explain why we be sell any arm to Israel ? I ask the hon . gentleman to look in detail at export licence and how they work . as I have say , we be not send arm to Israel . he will recognise , however , that we be continue to export body armour that NGOs or journalist use on the ground in the west bank and indeed in Gaza . for the very reason he give , I do not think that he would want we to stop . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement , in particular on support to get critically ill child out of Gaza and into the UK to receive specialist NHS treatment . do he agree that the israeli Government ' s promise to carry on develop more illegal settlement in the west bank will far undermine the prospect for a two - state solution ? the plan deliberately attempt to thwart a two - state solution : they effectively split the land and they drive out Bedouin and village . the plan be oppose by the last government when they first surface , and they be oppose by all in the international community . they be entirely unacceptable . I repeat that to the israeli Foreign Minister just a few day ago . I be deeply concerned by the misery , suffering and death in Gaza . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the work he be do with friend and ally in the region , which be a key part of solve the problem . I also support a two - state solution , but be he not concerned that the ultimatum regard unilateral recognition of a palestinian state risk entirely disincentivise Hamas from negotiate any hostage release or ceasefire over the come week and month ? I urge the hon . gentleman to keep up to date with the late . he will have see that there have be announcement by Hamas on the term for a ceasefire . we have not yet get that ceasefire ; there remain dispute , for example , about the length of a ceasefire and withdrawal of the IDF from part of Gaza . however , notwithstanding the concern we all have , Hamas be in dialogue with our egyptian and qatari friend in particular . happy birthday , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s comment about recognition of Palestine , which , of course , be absolutely what all Labour Members stand on in our manifesto . I would like to raise specifically the devastation and starvation of people in Gaza and the numerous report that the IDF be target doctor . will he tell the House about UK effort to evacuate people with family link to the UK , include Dr Radi , whose case I have raise many time in the House and with Ministers ? it be humble to meet once more a group of doctor in New York who have serve on the ground and to hear of the hardship that they have experience as noble humanitarian . in the come day , my hon . friend will see the UK ' s effort to evacuate people , particularly child , from Gaza . we rely on israeli permit , so it be not straightforward or easy , but I be grateful that she have put the issue of doctor front and centre this afternoon . this morning , the Scottish Labour leader tell a press conference in Glasgow : " there be a genocide happen in Gaza . I believe Benjamin Netanyahu be a war criminal and he will have to face further sanction . " do the Foreign Secretary agree ? I have a list of statement that have be make by Yair Lapid , by the leader of the Democrats , Yair Golan , and by the israeli Mossad director , Tamir Pardo , all of whom call into question much of what they be see on the ground — some of they use phrase like " ethnic cleansing " — so of course I be aware of what be be say . in the end , we need a ceasefire . we need to bring this horror show to an end . I have know my right hon . friend for more than 25 year , and I know that if he be up here on the Back Benches , he would be as angry and frustrated as we be . it get frustrating come here and express our concern when , with all due respect , he wring his hand and say , " we be do all we can , " then we go away and nothing move on . what can my right hon . friend say to we today to show that there be hope of something change in the near future , because in the meantime it be the hostage and the people in Gaza who pay the heavy price ? I be grateful to my dear friend for what he have say . he know that this be extremely frustrating . I have speak to envoy Steve Witkoff in the last 24 hour to be update on the situation in term of the ceasefire and the gap that still exist between the two side . there be still gap , unfortunately . my hon . friend know that this will only come to an end with a ceasefire , so we continue to do everything we can . I sense that this month be an important month as we head towards UNGA , so let we see where we get to . the UN Assembly come together be a big moment , and I be sure that the Israelis and Hamas recognise that . many happy return , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Druze in Syria be suffer nothing short of atrocity , and that situation continue . what practical help can the UK give as the Israelis try to set up safe zone and humanitarian corridor for they ? the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , be in Syria last week discuss these very issue , and of course we have make representation to the Israelis about our concern that some of their activity be undermine the prospect of the new Government . I thank my right hon . friend for make it clear that this country have historic responsibility in the region , and he have be consistent in call for a ceasefire month after month . that have not happen , so I ask he in all sincerity : what change do he really expect by simply continue to repeat that ? if Israel have the ability to qualify , through those " unless " statement , whether recognition be grant , I ask he to reflect on that . in answer to the early exchange on the potential for a peacekeeping force , surely Israel should not have the ability to put a block on that . the people of Palestine deserve well than that , surely . can I be very clear to my hon . friend that Israel do not have a veto on our decision to recognise ? I hear what have be say about a peacekeeping force , but I discuss these issue with the Secretary - General at the UN a few week ago and there be real tension that Israel have put in the way with its ability to work with the UN . that be why I think it be doubtful that that will come to pass in the near term . back in May , I raise concern about exemption for licence for component that be go out to Israel . I write to the Foreign Secretary and it be pass on to the Department for Business and Trade . to date I have have no reply , so I have absolutely no idea whether those licence have be suspend and whether they be not be use . my resident be worried that while the licence be now for non - military item , the exemption for licence may be use for thing that could harm Palestinians . will the Foreign Secretary please do all that he can to work with his colleague in the Department for Business and Trade to make sure that we can get that reassurance ? absolutely ; I will take that up . it be truly momentous that this Government look set to put long - stand UK policy into practice and recognise Palestine this month , but it feel like time be run out for a two - state solution , as the Foreign Secretary have acknowledge . we have now witness man - make famine , the bombing of hospital and hostage , and the denigration of the UN — I think the PLO delegation be ban from the General Assembly — go against all international norm , so would he agree with my constituent that on trade , sanction and settlement , it be time to step up a gear in this ever - worsen situation and put the full force of action behind his very strong statement ? I disagree with that last part . I simply refer my hon . friend to what I have say . she will struggle to find another Government in the develop western world who have do more on sanction than we have . even our neighbour in France and the European Union have not do as much as we on this issue , and our record on humanitarian aid be considerable . she have hear what have be say about the issue of recognition . I know that the hundred of constituent who have contact I call for action to end the heartbreaking suffering in Gaza will welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s recommitment to recognise Palestine . however , if , as he say , recognition be root in the principle of a two - state solution , why be grant it be use as a tool to change Israel ' s course , rather than take other action such as sanction Prime Minister Netanyahu ? I make no apology for try to affect behaviour on the ground as we head to the UN General Assembly meeting and for give diplomacy a chance . it still have an opportunity to work and that be why we do it . can I start by welcome the announcement of the additional aid and medical care for Gaza that have be announce by the Secretary of State today ? it be now widely report that the israeli Government be consider the annexation of the west bank as a direct result of the United Kingdom ' s plan to recognise palestinian statehood , so will the Secretary of State make it absolutely clear that that move would constitute a blatant breach of international law ? far , will he assure the House that the Government will not hesitate to take the strong possible action , diplomatically and politically , to condemn any such unlawful annexation ? it would be a breach of international humanitarian law , so we will keep work with our partner to try and ensure that it do not come about . the Foreign Secretary ask what more this government can do to ensure that the genocide in Gaza be end . might I suggest that the doctrine of responsibility to protect be enact by the United Nations , and that any and all mean possible be exhausted to demand an end to genocide ? intervene to defend the helpless . intervene to help the trap and starve civilian of Gaza , half of whom , I remind the House , be child . Act now , immediately ! I think I agree with everything that the hon . Gentleman have say , and that be what we be attempt to do . instead of take substantive step to end the appalling situation in Gaza and agree to an immediate ceasefire and long - term sustainable peace , the israeli Government have ignore we . they have fail to let aid go through , and create a man - make famine . it appear to I that the israeli Government will only listen to Donald Trump and the United States , so can the Foreign Secretary please confirm what discussion he have have with Donald Trump to take action against the israeli Government ? as I have say , I have speak to Secretary of State Rubio , Envoy Steve Witkoff and Vice - President Vance about these issue . I leave discussion with the President of the United States to our great Prime Minister . datum from the israeli military show that 83 % of people kill in Gaza since October 2023 have be civilian . kill at this mass scale for month on end be unparalleled in modern conflict . will the Foreign Secretary act to place far more pressure on Israel to end the mass killing of civilian by suspend the UK ' s current trade agreement with Israel and sanction those responsible for breach international law ? over 63 , 000 people have now lose their life and well over 100 , 000 be injure as a result of this war , so the hon . member be right to put that front and centre . she will recognise that we make a decision about suspend any negotiation for a new trade agreement a few week ago . Professor Oz - Salzberger describe a " battle for the soul of Israel " in the Financial Times of yesterday . thousand and thousand of moderate voice in Israel be cry out for an end to this terrible war . hundred of thousand of Israelis march for peace . what can our Government do to support these people ? I be hugely grateful to my hon . friend for bring to mind the many Israelis march and express deep concern for the plight of the hostage . I certainly have both israeli and jewish friend who be hugely concerned about the direction in which the Netanyahu Government be take this war and this further military operation into Gaza City , which will inevitably lead to more loss of life . the United Nations describe the famine in Gaza as a " deliberate collapse of the system need for human survival " and " a man - make disaster , a moral indictment , and a failure of humanity itself . " every day my constituent ask I , " what more would it take for the Government to recognise this as genocide ? " what would the Foreign Secretary have I say to they ? I would refer to the remark I have make before at this Dispatch Box . I recognise what be be say . I recognise the work of international scholar particularly , and the fine judgment that must be make by the ICC and the ICJ , but we have an important democratic principle that these decision must be make by lawyer , and it be for government to act in the way that I have set out today . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and the extensive work that he , his team and his official have do to secure the international coalition of ally in the recognition of the state of Palestine — although that have be very much undermine by the Israeli Cabinet and what it propose in relation to the e1 annexation plan . be there more we can do to extend this coalition and increase the level of sanction to stop this israeli behaviour ? be it appropriate to transfer the UNGA meeting from New York to Geneva , as be do in 1988 , so that the palestinian delegation can attend ? I do think we need further dialogue on the issue of palestinian attendance at that meeting . I recognise that these decision be make previously and hold in Geneva , but I hope that we can have some reconsideration and that we can afford the delegation the same privilege that they have have for many year . we have a UN - declare man - make famine , child and baby be starve to death , and journalist murder . now the world ' s lead genocide scholar state that Israel ' s action meet the legal definition of genocide . it be clear that painstaking , careful international diplomacy be not work fast enough , and the Gazans be run out of time . be it not time for we to lead our ally in action that Israel might take notice of : sweep trade sanction , sanction on Netanyahu and his entire Cabinet , and a commitment that we will recognise Gaza at the UN with no condition ? the whole House will have hear what the hon . Member say , and she will have hear what I have say on a previous situation . I would ask she to look closely at what this Government have be do — our leadership globally relative to other near partner . I think the decision we make a few week ago , and the provision we set for how we would recognise and the judgment we will make as we head to UNGA , be particularly important . I thank the Foreign Secretary very much for the action take by he and his colleague to enable the safe passage of scholar to the UK , a number of whom hope to come to the University of Glasgow . I be also grateful for the work be do to evacuate critically injure child . the Foreign Secretary have enumerate the number of child who have already die of famine — 119 , with 132 , 000 under - five also at risk of starvation in the next year . but we have already see 17 , 000 child kill as a result of the conflict . I refuse to call it a war because it be not a war ; there be one side that have arm and another side that do not have an equality of arm . the Foreign Secretary previously say that he would never rule out anything that could be helpful in this regard . I understand why he will not commit to further sanction at the Dispatch Box , but can he assure the House that he have not rule out further sanction , or any other action that might be helpful , both in the run - up to the UN meeting and beyond ? I thank my hon . friend for what she say in relation to child . of course , there be not just the child who have die as a result of famine , which be horrific , but many thousand of child who be malnourished . anyone who know anything about education and child will know that if you malnourish child , you affect outcome for they as they get old and move towards adulthood . that be why this be so horrific and disastrous for the consequence of peace and the outcome that we want to see . I have hear what she say about sanction . the Foreign Secretary say that " we can and must be precise with our language " . I stand here 23 month after the atrocity of 7 October — completely unforgivable atrocity against civilian and other innocent people — and I join in his call for all hostage to be release . however , since 8 October 2023 , Israel have be extremely precise in its language about what it be go to do in response to 7 October . its playbook of war crime , genocide , murder , starvation , water blockage , power cut and bombing hospital and school be lay out in extreme detail for all of we to see . nobody on this planet can say we do not know . over the 23 month , nothing this government have do have prevent Israel from enact its line - by - line extermination plan . it do not want two state between Palestine and Israel . it actually do not care about the life of the remain hostage . what will this Government do to help Israel see sense and save life , both the hostage and the Palestinians ? I do think it be important that the hon . Gentleman , notwithstanding his strength of feeling , recognise that Israel be a complex place of many opinion . he will have find dispute , certainly from this government but I think from many people in this Chamber , on the direction of travel that the Netanyahu Government have set themselves , and the extremist in that government who have take they on a certain path . I think that be an important qualification . we be do all we can , but he will recognise that we do that with partner , seek to exert leverage , and that be why we have make the decision that we have most recently . do my right hon . friend agree that , now more than ever , the will of the international community must take precedence over the will of those who perpetuate conflict and deny a two - state solution ? of course that mean Hamas , but also , sadly , the israeli Government . can he assure I that this Government be look at previous time when the international community , with Britain at the forefront , have end conflict , despite difficulty , and build a fair and just peace , overcome fact on the ground and restore hope ? no conflict be the same . that region have have numerous conflict over the year . what we have see over the past 23 month have be horrific . it be my job , as the country ' s chief diplomat , to do everything I can , strain every sinew and work with colleague , to bring the conflict to an end and keep my language diplomatic . we often get distract by the semantic and jurisprudence of term such as " genocide " and " ethnic cleansing " , but it be clear that , with the exception of a few , this House appear united — just as the country be as a whole — in its opposition to the action of the far - right Netanyahu Government . the Foreign Secretary say that he want to give diplomacy a chance — he constantly repeat that intention — but can he demonstrate to we that he be not be completely ignore throughout this ? if he can not , will he at least assure we that he will not allow the Elbit contract to go through , that RAF Akrotiri will not be use to the advantage of the israeli military , and that there be no trade with illegal settlement ? on the last three point , yes . it be simply not enough at this stage to repeat the line about remind Israel that international law require the protection of healthcare worker , journalist and civilian — it be so clear that the israeli Government be not do that . do the Foreign Secretary accept that , as a result of the UK ' s ongoing political role as Israel ' s close ally , UK weapon , include component , continue directly or indirectly to be sell to Israel ? if he do not accept that , will he play a role in ensure that no new Government contract will be award to Elbit Systems UK , the central supplier of Israel ' s military assault in Gaza ? the ICC and ICJ be watch , and the UK have its own obligation under international law . I be grateful to the hon . Lady , but as I have say , we be not supply arm to Israel — that decision be make back in September . it be my obligation and very solemn undertaking to ensure that we be not complicit . the standard that this legislature set be a very low one and a clear risk , and be not as high as standard find in international court . it be for that reason that we suspend sale that could be use in Gaza , notwithstanding some of the mendacity that we see online . despite all the protestation that we have hear from the Dispatch Box , by the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and other , it seem that Israel and Benjamin Netanyahu will stop at nothing . like a dog that have taste blood , Netanyahu can be stop only by military intervention . to be absolutely clear , we be not work with the like of Canada , Australia and France when it come to the recognition of the state of Palestine , because we have adopt what be know as a contradictory conditional statement . will the Foreign Secretary make it plain that the UK Labour Government ' s position be that we will not recognise the state of Palestine so long as Benjamin Netanyahu fulfil certain condition ? I set out my statement very clearly at the UN . the Prime Minister set out his statement at no . 10 . when I finish my statement , the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority come to I and give I an embrace . yet the hon . Gentleman think that he know more and that the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority get it wrong . of course we be work with our partner ; of course we be try to change the situation on the ground — I make absolutely no apology for that . we will make our assessment for UNGA . the hon . Gentleman ' s judgment on this occasion be wrong . I very much welcome the commitment to recognise the palestinian state . some of we have fight for that for many year . I also welcome the rest of the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , in so far as it go . he be right to condemn what the Israelis be do in Gaza with their policy of starvation , and he be right to recognise the israeli attempt to split the west bank in a way that will prevent a palestinian state from be create , but in his heart of heart he know that the Israelis will carry on regardless of his condemnation . will he now give serious thought to the " what if " ? what further action be the Government prepare to take to hold the Israelis to account and to get they to recognise the force of international argument against they on both those point ? my hon . friend bring considerable experience to the Chamber and to these issue . of course , as he would expect , I and the fcdo plan for all scenario , but we remain optimistic and hopeful . that be our solemn duty on behalf of the hostage still underground , and on behalf of those suffering in Gaza , particularly the child and woman who be lose their life and be injure in the way we have see . my hon . friend the Member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) be right to ask the Foreign Secretary to place sanction on Prime Minister Netanyahu . many of my constituent agree and ask I to urge the Government to take more step to stop the famine in Gaza and stop the Israel Defence Forces kill many more innocent child , woman and man in Gaza . do the Foreign Secretary realise that many people in this country do not think that he be do enough to stop the famine and end the killing ? they be frustrate with he for what they see as his inaction . I think that the british people be wise and deeply concerned about what they see , but I also think that their wisdom mean that they ascribe blame , where appropriate , to the actor on the ground , remember that one of those actor be a proscribe terrorist organisation . they recognise that Britain have a role to play and a historical duty , and they want to see Britain play that role alongside partner , which be what we be do . I welcome the commitment to recognise the palestinian state later this month . that be an essential step , and there can be no further delay . israeli Government support for illegal settlement in the west bank and the decision to build in the e1 area be strategically design to undermine the viability of a palestinian state . will the Foreign Secretary therefore commit to introduce a ban on all settlement trade , include service and investment , so that money from the UK can not be use to fund that illegal occupation , and so that the state of Palestine , which we be rightly recognise , have a chance of become a reality ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for continue to press those issue over so many month on behalf of her constituent . good from settlement not entitle to tariff and trade preference be important consideration . UK business guidance outline clear risk to UK operator consider economic activity in the area . rise — order . the statement will conclude at 8 pm because we also have a statement on Ukraine . colleague will need to be as fast as they can . in hearing from the Foreign Secretary that 132 , 000 child be at risk of die from hunger , one can only feel utter revulsion . I recognise what the Government have do , but in their public diplomacy with President Trump , their strategy appear to be to pander to he . again , I understand why the Government have choose to do that , but how concerned be the Foreign Secretary that their legacy in the middle east will be the same as that of the previous Labour Government : to be a poodle to an out - of - control american President amid horror ? I remind the hon . Gentleman that it be I and this Labour Government who sign a memorandum of understanding of support with the Palestinian Authority just a few month ago . we use every lever that we can diplomatically to be in dialogue with our partner and to seek to influence they . this be a complex set of issue . there be different approach internationally , and he will have witness that , but we use every sinew diplomatically , and that be what the Prime Minister and I do every day . almost 1 , 500 healthcare worker have be kill , accord to M é decin Sans Fronti è re , and more than 50 , 000 child have be kill or injure , accord to unicef . if the israeli Government declare that they be not target medical worker , journalist and civilian , they be clearly cavalier with human life , and tolerate that be no long acceptable . will the Foreign Secretary tell I what step we will take to hold the israeli Government to account properly under international law , and to make it clear that that be no long acceptable and that we will not tolerate it ? in the interest of time , I simply refer my hon . friend to the statement that I have already make from the Dispatch Box this afternoon . I thank the Secretary of State for his clear commitment to deliver help and assistance and to find a lasting solution . do he accept that the retrieval of two more dead israeli hostage , while 48 be still be hold either dead or alive by Hamas , indicate the unwillingness of Hamas to bring this war to an end ? do the Secretary of State believe that there be any further way of bring those hostage home , which I and we all believe would be a meaningful step on the road to a ceasefire and a rebuilding of life for the people of Gaza , as well as for the Israelis on the other side of the strip ? the hon . Gentleman be right : the return of those hostage would see this war come to an end tomorrow . recently , the sight of terribly malnourished hostage be chilling and horrendous , and heartbreake for their family . I meet hostage family just before the recess , and I will meet they again very shortly . he be right to centre they in his remark . I thank my right hon . friend for his urgent work to evacuate and treat seriously injure and critically ill child from Gaza . new restriction on aid be due to be implement fully on 9 September . aid organisation face be ban if they delegitimise the state of Israel or do not provide detailed information about palestinian staff . do he agree that woman and girl have suffer the bad impact of the war ? will he expand on how we can help to get more aid to they ? it be always woman and girl who be the face of pain and suffering in conflict and the most desperate of circumstance . that be why we will continue to centre woman and girl in all our development work , because that be critical . my hon . friend be right to refer to the remark that have be make ; they be not the remark that we would expect of any democratic partner . I urge the israeli Government to think again . I explain to my constituent every week how hard the Foreign Secretary and his ministerial team be work in this context , but every day woman and child be kill and be starve . what be happen be a moral outrage of the first order . the International Criminal Court be a key pillar of international justice . will my right hon . friend reassure I that he be do everything possible to protect and enhance its independence from political interference , and to ensure that it be more than properly resource to carry out its important work in this conflict ? the International Criminal Court be a fundamental part of the architecture that be set up after the atrocity of the second world war . the United Kingdom play a central role in that . that be why this government — and I hope any Government — remain absolutely committed to the ICC and the International Court of Justice , and to their good and important work , which they must do free from and unfettere by political interference . I welcome the Government ' s commintment to recognise a palestinian state at the United Nations General Assembly . violence in the west bank have be horrific , with israeli force and settler displace more than 40 , 000 Palestinians due to assault on northern refugee camp , and of course there be concern about annexation . what action will the Foreign Secretary take to protect Palestinians at risk of force transfer ? what work will he do with international partner to pressure the israeli Government at UNGA ? that be a decision that I be discuss with the Palestinian Authority . also , I will be in the region in the come day , discuss what further support we can give to those who be suffer or at risk on the ground . today , the world ' s lead genocide scholar declare genocide in Gaza . early this summer , famine be officially declare in Gaza . we have see war crime after war crime , with more journalist kill and more hospital bomb , and yet on sanction the Government continue to drag their foot . how can it be morally justifiable that , while rightly be robust on Russia with extensive sanction , when it come to Israel and sanction , we let it off lightly , to say the least ? what be the difference and when will we see widespread sanction on Israel ? my hon . friend be a lawyer , so when he say that , I would ask he to point to a nation that do more on sanction on this file than the United Kingdom . I note that he have not be able to do that . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and the action that the Government have take already on sanction , aid and proposal to recognise the palestinian state . give the fact on the ground , which he have recognise — the man - make famine , the killing of woman , child , healthcare worker and journalist , the ongoing suffering of the hostage , and the intensification of the military campaign — will he confirm that he will continue to work with international ally and consider all further action that he can take to bring about the end of this catastrophe ? yes , I give my hon . friend that assurance . in recent month alone more than 1 , 000 of my constituent have contact I about the brutal conflict in Gaza , make it the single big issue of concern to local people . I know that the Foreign Secretary and his Ministers be do everything that they can behind the scene and in private , but do he agree that the palestinian people have an inalienable right to statehood and that a further group of country , include the UK , recognise Palestine could provide a practical and , importantly , a public step towards make a two - state solution and a last peace possible ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend . we believe passionately in a two - state solution and in keep that dream alive . we believe in the inalienable right of the palestinian people . that be why I set out what I do in the UN a few week ago . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for his stamina over the past two hour . I assure he that the horror of the unfold famine in Gaza and concern about the future of the hostage be feel just as strongly on the atlantic coast of Scotland as they be on the shore of the eastern Mediterranean . international expert have rightly describe what be go on in Gaza as a genocide . Anas Sarwar , the scottish Labour leader , today describe it as a genocide . will such sentiment inform our next round of sanction against Netanyahu ' s Government ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . I recognise what be be say by international scholar around the world . he will recognise the sombre decision that we have take in relation to international humanitarian law , in particular the suspension of arm sale . rise — Order . I have try to go as fast as I can , and I apologise to all the colleague who be disappoint , but the final question go to Tom Hayes . what happen on 7 October be inhumane : Hamas be terrorist and the hostage must be return immediately and safely . Israel be behave insufferably and what the israeli Government be do be unacceptable . the International Criminal Court have indict israeli leader for the war crime of starvation . it be impossible to avoid the conclusion that the israeli Government be guilty of violate article of the fourth Geneva convention . will the Government do all that they can to support british prosecutor and our british court to arrest war criminal and hold they to account ? Madam Deputy Speaker , I too be sorry that other colleague who want to ask question be unable to do so today , but I be sure that much of the global community will see the strength of feeling that have be show in the Chamber this afternoon in relation to this horrific war . as Foreign Secretary , it be my great honour to stand shoulder to shoulder with those giant of this Chamber who give we the international humanitarian architecture that we have , and to be crystal clear in our support for it . that be the end of the statement on the middle east . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 22 April , I write to the Foreign Secretary and the Attorney General raise a number of matter to do with domestic legal issue and our international obligation with regard to this conflict , but 132 day later , I have yet to receive a reply . what step can I take to elicit the information that I need from the Foreign Secretary ? I thank the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . this be not a matter for the Chair , but the right hon . Member have put his concern on the record and they have be hear by member on the Front Bench , include the Foreign Secretary himself . Ukraine with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement about Ukraine . before I begin , I inform the House that yesterday we secure a £ 10 billion contract to supply Norway with at least five Type 26 frigate . this be the big british warship deal in our history . it strengthen NATO and our northern flank , and support 4 , 000 british job and 400 british business for year to come . it show that this Government be make defence an engine for growth across the region and nation of the United Kingdom . turn to Ukraine , a few day ago Ukrainians around the world come together to mark a special day : 34 year of their country ' s independence — 34 year as a proud and sovereign nation . Ukrainians , civilian and those from the military alike , continue to fight for that freedom with huge courage , three - and - a - half year on from the start of Putin ' s brutal , full - scale invasion . a secure Europe need a strong Ukraine : its freedom be our freedom and its value our be value . that be why the UK stand with Ukraine , and why this House stand united for Ukraine . when Ukraine mark its next independence day , we all hope to see Ukrainians celebrate in a time of peace , not in a time of war . over the summer , the UK , with our ally , have be work hard to make that hope a reality . the Prime Minister host President Zelensky in London , chair various coalition of the willing meeting with President Macron and join european leader with President Zelensky to meet President Trump in Washington DC . I have speak with Defence Ministers across the coalition about step up military support and secure a peace after any deal . our military leader have meet multiple time to strengthen international contribution to the coalition , also know now as the " multinational force Ukraine . " we welcome President Trump ' s dedication to bring this terrible war to an end , and we strongly welcome his commitment to make security guarantee " very secure , " as he say , with the Europeans . at every stage , President Zelensky continue his support for a full , unconditional ceasefire and for talk on a last peace , yet Putin ' s response have be to launch some of the large attack on Ukraine since the start of the war . during last week ' s onslaught on Kyiv , at least 23 people be kill , four of whom be child , include a two - year - old . an attack on the British Council be an outrage : a russian missile , fire into a civilian area , as part of an illegal war , damage a british Government building , injure a civilian worker . it now appear that Putin be refuse a meeting with President Trump and President Zelensky , so while Ukraine want peace , Putin wage war . President Trump be right : we must continue push for peace , as well as increase pressure on Putin to come to the table . so we support measure to disrupt russian oil revenue , and we welcome President Trump ' s comment that he be weigh very serious economic sanction on Russia . the Foreign Secretary will have more to say on similar UK action very soon . on the battlefield , intense fighting continue along the frontline . while russian military activity have reduce in the Kharkiv and Sumy oblast , as russian ground force relocate element of those force , over the past two week , they have advance in the northern Donetsk region . Pokrovsk remain Russia ' s focus and its force be use a variety of method to infiltrate ukrainian position , but Putin continue to make only minor territorial gain , at a huge cost . the most recent assessment by UK defence intelligence estimate that at the current pace since January , it would take Russia another 4 . 4 year to seize the Donbas , at a cost of almost 2 million more russian casualty . despite that , the increase escalation of Russia ' s devastating drone strike be a serious concern . in July , Russia launch approximately 6 , 200 one - way attack drone into Ukraine , another monthly record . in one night alone , over this weekend , Russia launch nearly 540 drone and 45 missile . the UK Government be step up our effort for Ukraine . our priority be simple : support the fight today , secure the peace tomorrow . to support the fight today , we be provide £ 4 . 5 billion in military aid for Ukraine this year — the high ever level . at the last Ukraine Defence Contact Group meeting , with over 50 nation and partner , in July , I launch a " 50 - day drive " to accelerate the assistance that we be give . fifty day on , the UK have deliver to Ukraine nearly 5 million round of munition , around 60 , 000 artillery shell , rocket and missile , 2 , 500 uncrewed platform , 30 vehicle and engineering equipment , and 200 electronic warfare and air defence system . we will not jeopardise the peace by forget about the war . next week , I will co - chair the 30th UDCG meeting with Germany ' s Minister Pistorius , alongside NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte and 50 other ally and partner . I will host an E5 Defence Ministers summit in London next week , where we will be join by the Ukrainian Defence Minister , and where together we will step up still far our support for Ukraine . to secure the peace tomorrow , the UK continue , with the French , to lead the coalition of the willing . some 200 military planner from more than 30 nation have help design plan in the event of a ceasefire : plan to secure the sky and sea , and to train ukrainian force to defend their nation . this week , I will host Defence Ministers from across the coalition , with French Minister Lecornu , to further cement contribution to that coalition . for the armed force , I be review readiness level and accelerate funding to prepare for any possible deployment . peace be possible , and we will be ready . the Prime Minister and I will ensure that the House be fully inform of development in the proper way . may I take this opportunity to pay tribute to one of the drive figure of the coalition of the willing , Admiral Sir Tony Radakin ? today be his last day as the UK Chief of the Defence Staff . Tony have have a distinguished 35 - year military career in the armed force , serve in operation right across the globe . he be widely respect and a true friend of the ukrainian people , as President Zelensky himself say last week . I be sure that everyone in the House will join I in thank Tony for his outstanding service and wish every success to his successor as CDS , Air Chief Marshal Rich Knighton . let I end by say that while President Putin like to project strength , he be now weak than ever . since Putin launch his illegal invasion , he have not achieve any of his strategic aim . he have lose more than 10 , 000 tank and armoured vehicle , and his Black sea fleet have be humiliate . he be force to rely on state such as Iran for drone , North Korea for frontline troop and China for technology and component . he be use 40 % of his total government spending on the war , with interest rate now run at 18 % and inflation at 9 % . moreover , Putin now face a big NATO — 32 nation strong , with an agreement to raise national spending on security to 5 % by 2035 — and a Ukraine that be more determined than ever to control its own future . a secure Europe need a strong , sovereign Ukraine , and we in the UK will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . I join he in pay tribute to the outgoing Chief of the Defence Staff , Admiral Sir Tony Radakin , who , as he say , have give such impactful leadership and support for Ukraine . I also send my good wish to his successor as CDS , Air Chief Marshal Sir Richard Knighton . it be a privilege to work with both of they at the MOD . let I turn to Ukraine . it be be widely report that in his speech to the Shanghai Co - operation Organisation summit today , Vladimir Putin say that the understanding reach at his meeting with President Trump in Alaska be open the way to peace in Ukraine . how utterly cynical . what follow the summit in Alaska be not peace , but the brutal bombing of innocent civilian across Ukraine . in particular , just day ago , Putin unleash the second - large aerial attack of the whole war , kill at least 23 people , include four child , as the Secretary of State just confirm . bomb damage include the British Council in Kyiv . we join the Government in utterly condemn the attack on the British Council and pay tribute to all its staff , who be play their part in our national endeavour to support Ukraine . we pass on our good wish to the member of staff who be injure in the attack . we note that the chief executive of the British Council , Scott McDonald , promise to continue operation wherever possible . can the Secretary of State outline to what degree that have be achieve and what support the Government have provide to assist ? if Putin really want to open the way to peace in Ukraine , as he say , he should recognise that the blame for this war lie squarely with his territorial ambition , and that all the civilian and military bloodshed that continue be wholly the result of his unprovoked and illegal invasion . the reality be that Putin do not accept that basic fact . in his speech today at the Shanghai Co - operation Organisation summit , Putin be widely quote as blame other for the war , in particular his long - stand refrain that the war be cause by " the West ' s constant attempt to draw Ukraine into NATO . " without ambiguity , we and all our ally must see that the war in Ukraine be a question of a free and sovereign democracy invade without provocation by a bully dictator . that be why , when we be in office , it be right to provide such strong support to Ukraine from the outset of the invasion — indeed , even before it commence — and why in opposition we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government in continue that policy . that be why we need to keep tighten the screw on Putin ' s war machine . Moscow should be deny safe harbour for its tanker and profit , and Europe should ban russian oil and gas soon than its current 2027 deadline . the Euro - Atlantic alliance must lead a new pincer movement to far constraint Russia ' s energy revenue and stop Putin from get his hand on military equipment , so I be glad that the Foreign Secretary will have more to say on sanction very soon , as the Secretary of State for Defence say . can he confirm whether the timeline be directly link to US action ? would the UK go ahead with those plan for tough sanction if the US for some reason do not ? on any potential end to the fighting , we all desperately want to see peace in Ukraine , but we be clear that it must be a lasting , sustainable peace . that be why security guarantee be so important . the Secretary of State refer to President Trump ' s commitment to make security guarantee " very secure " with the Europeans . what further detail be he able to share on the likely shape of any such US security guarantee ? the Secretary of State state that the coalition of the willing would " secure the sky and sea " . that seem to miss out the land force element . do that mean that the Army would be send to Ukraine only in a training role ? he also say that he be " review readiness level and accelerate funding to prepare for any possible deployment " . do he expect that funding to come from the Treasury reserve or the exist MOD budget ? on review readiness , what be the timescale of the review ? be it yet at the stage where urgent operational requirement be be consider ? finally , I strongly welcome the news that Norway have select the Type 26 , which be make in Scotland , for its future fleet . that be a huge deal that will support thousand of job , but it have be many year in the making , with significant input and progress under the previous Government . in December 2023 , I have the pleasure of visit the norwegian MOD in Oslo , and I assure the House that the Type 26 be very much at the top of the agenda . to remind hon . member , that be in the same week we announce that Britain and Norway would lead the maritime coalition support Ukraine ' s navy , underline the strength of our naval alliance and our joint commitment to Ukraine . it be clear that a key reason for Norway ' s decision be that it face the same russian threat that we do from russian submarine and want the good possible capability to respond , maximise interoperability with the Royal Navy . however , that russian threat arise entirely from Putin ' s pursuit of aggression , rather than peace . until that situation change in reality rather than in rhetoric , we must continue to be robust in do everything possible to support Ukraine . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s endorsement of the success in secure the Norway deal . Groundwork be certainly do under the last government , and he lead a lot of that as the Defence Procurement Minister , but I have to say that we have a great deal more to do when we take over in July last year . frankly , we have to reboot the campaign , which we do , and I be grateful that we have secure it , as it have huge military , economic and strategic importance . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s continue support for the action we be take to support Ukraine . he be absolutely right to call out Putin ' s remark at the Shanghai Co - operation Organisation council , and the pressure be now on Putin to prove that he want peace and to do what he say he want . while he have sit down to discuss peace with President Trump in Alaska , he have of course be turn up his attack in Ukraine . he launch this war , and he can stop it tomorrow if he choose . the hon . Gentleman ask about sanction and encourage we to take further step . he will know that we have already introduce more than 500 new sanction against individual , entity and ship . we have sanction 289 vessel as part of the russian shadow fleet , and very soon the Foreign Secretary will announce further UK step . on the security guarantee , the commitment we have secure already from many of those involve in the discussion be substantial . the discussion continue , and we look for contribution to be far confirm . much of the shape of any deployment of a coalition of the willing will depend on the term of any peace agreement . at this stage , I certainly do not want to offer any more public detail on that , because it would only reinforce Putin ' s hand and make he and the Russians wiser . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Defence Secretary for advance sight of his statement . I wholeheartedly welcome the historic frigate export deal with Norway , and join he in pay tribute to Chief of the Defence Staff Admiral Radakin for his distinguished decade - long service to our country . recent russian attack across 14 different region of Ukraine be not action of peace . word and action must align , and it be abundantly clear that both from President Putin present a threat to we all . with such drastic escalation of Putin ' s violence run concurrently with peace negotiation , along with Putin ' s false reframing of his invasion as some sort of reaction to a Western - back coup , can my right hon . friend the Secretary of State shed further light on what lever he have pull to help enable a peaceful outcome ? it be a truism that peace be secure through strength , and our task in country such as the UK that strongly support Ukraine be to put it in the strong possible position on the battlefield and at any negotiating table . that mean step up military support for Ukraine now , which we be do , and will do far at next week ' s UDCG meeting that I will co - chair . it also mean step up economic pressure on Putin , which the House will have a chance to hear more about — the Foreign Secretary will announce further measure soon — and step up our preparation for secure any peace for the long term if Trump can help lead negotiation that will lead to a ceasefire and a peace agreement . that be the way that we support Ukraine now , and it be how we can help reinforce the step towards the possibility of peace tomorrow . I say to my hon . friend the Chair of the Defence Committee and to the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , that I will ensure tomorrow that Admiral Radakin be aware of the kind comment from both side of the House . I know that he will appreciate they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Defence Secretary for advance sight of his statement . I join other in the House in thank Admiral Sir Tony Radakin for his service , and wish he well in his next step . I be relieve to see the Prime Minister join fellow european leader in Washington last month , stand shoulder to shoulder with President Zelensky in the wake of Donald Trump ' s fawn appeasement of Vladimir Putin in Alaska . despite that show of support , I still fear that Trump would prefer to secure a quick and easy carve - up of Ukraine , rather than work to secure a peace that provide justice for Ukraine and guarantee its sovereignty against future russian aggression . that be why I believe that the Government need to continue to lead from the front , but to take our european partner with we we really need to bolster Ukraine ' s defence and punish Putin . in that vein , can the Secretary of State update the House on what progress , if any , have be make on seize the billion in frozen russian asset across the G7 ? can he update we on whether any assessment have be make of the volume and quality of weaponry that the seizure of those asset could help fund for Kyiv , or to what use they could be put in support the rebuilding of Ukraine ? we must also tighten the screw on Putin ' s war chest . I welcome the new £ 10 billion contract with Norway and the british job and business that it will support in the UK , which far demonstrate the need for we to work with our northern european ally in the fight against Russia ' s aggression . I be pleased that the Government have take a step to far cut the Kremlin ' s profit through a reduction in the oil price cap , but that measure must be accompany by more work to crack down on Russia ' s shadow fleet , as it continue to trade and transport oil sell above that price cap . a join - up approach between we and our ally be vital , so will the Secretary of State commit to expand the UK ' s designation of vessel in the shadow fleet , include those already sanction by the EU , Canada and the US , and will he seek reciprocal designation from those partner ? as we reach a critical moment in negotiation , we need to be take all the step we can to provide Ukraine with the leverage and military mat é riel it need , so will the Secretary of State consider send UK Typhoon jet for use by the ukrainian air force ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s strong focus on the need for further economic pressure on Putin and on Russia . she will recognise that the UK be out ahead of many other country in the number of vessel we have sanction as part of the russian shadow fleet . we be always ready to take further step in that regard , and I hope she will see very soon from the Foreign Secretary the UK ' s determination to go far still on economic pressure and on sanction . she invite I to offer an update on progress on the use of seized asset ; I be unable to do that , but she will know that this be not just a matter of whether it will be effective as a UK decision . the detailed work that be still be discuss with other key ally continue . we recognise the potential for use those asset seize from Russia to help rebuild and support Ukraine — that be something we be work on . the hon . Lady urge we to lead european ally . it be not unreasonable to say that that be exactly what we be do , not just through the UK provide our high ever level of military aid this year , but in the way in which we have now step in to lead the UDCG . I will chair its 30th meeting alongside Minister Pistorius next week . we have also step in by lead the coalition of the willing with the French — more than 50 nation be part of the discussion about plan for Ukraine ' s long - term future , and I will host the Defence Ministers alongside Minister Lecornu this week to discuss that far . however , there be one other point that I would make to the hon . Lady and to this House . it be often see as the european coalition of the willing or the european UDCG , but these be coalition of nation that go well beyond Europe . I be in Japan last week , and Prime Minister Ishiba of Japan have join the discussion for the coalition of the willing . some of the most stalwart supporter of Ukraine in term of military aid since the start of the russian invasion have be ally of our — steadfast supporter of Ukraine from other part of the world , from Australia to Japan and from New Zealand to Korea . that signal to Putin not just that Europe stand steadfast with Ukraine in challenge and confront his aggression , but that we and many other country see this as a security matter in the Euro - Atlantic that be indivisible from security in the Indo - Pacific . I thank the Defence Secretary for the update and for his continue leadership on this issue . we have all be so move by the extraordinary bravery and resilience of the ukrainian people in the face of russian aggression , and in my constituency we know how important it be to stand by our friend in Ukraine . in my constituency , I have also have the privilege of be able to visit our armed force and our industry and to see how much they have be inspire by our ukrainian colleague and their innovation on the battlefield . will the Secretary of State give a bit of an update on the important lesson that the Ministry of Defence have learn from Ukrainians ' innovation on the battlefield ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the courage of the Ukrainians be an inspiration to we all , include our own force , as be their ability to fight and innovate in combat . we try to capture that in the strategic defence review , which we publish in June . it point the way to the sort of radical transformation that we will require in our own armed force and defence system . I hope that my hon . friend will see the hallmark of that very soon when we publish the defence industrial strategy . a few week ago I return from Ukraine with some other who have be deliver truck and medical aid to the Ukrainians for use on the frontline . I have make a number of such trip alongside other member whom I can see across the Floor , united , as the Government be unite , with the Opposition and the other party . however , have watch the brutality step up by President Putin in recent week , and follow the alaskan conference in Anchorage , I must say that I be fundamentally still very disappointed . yes , the Government be right that they be bring together a coalition of the willing , but the least willing of all at the moment seem to be the White House , and my concern be that without the White House ' s commitment to show Putin that his action have consequence , this will continue to drag on . the United States be the one country that can really impress upon he that if the Russians carry on with these attack , they will be sanction dramatically and the weapon that the Ukrainians desperately need will flow to they like water . I wonder whether the Government could say to the President , behind closed door , " it be time to follow your word with action and not keep on prevaricate . " I appreciate the argument that the right hon . Gentleman make . it be important to recognise that President Trump ' s role be essential and central in any opportunity to bring the two side together . President Tump be play a role that only he can play , and he have make it clear that the range of further step , if they become necessary , at his disposal and for his decision include step up economic pressure on President Putin . we be ready to respond alongside that , and we be also ready to take our own decision on economic pressure on President Putin and on Russia . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , the Defence Committee Chair , that have get to be part of try to ensure that the pressure on Putin and the support for Ukraine bring the two side more rapidly to the negotiating table so that we can get the peace that we all want secure . my West Dunbartonshire constituent know the importance of stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine in this fight . do the Minister agree that investment such as the £ 250 million to his Majesty ' s Naval Base Clyde and the landmark £ 10 billion deal with Norway — both of which secure thousand of job for people on the Clyde , many of whom live in my West Dunbartonshire constituency — all help to show our strength and deter future russian aggression ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and it be a lesson from Ukraine that we have to take seriously : when a country be face with conflict or be force to fight , its armed force be only as strong as the industry that stand behind they . part of the significance of the frigate deal with Norway be that this will reinforce our british shipbuilding , our british innovation and our british technology base across the UK and especially in Scotland for many year to come . I , too , congratulate Admiral Sir Tony Radakin and Air Chief Marshal Sir Rich Knighton and wish they well . a big " well do " be also due to all involve in the Type 26 deal , include my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) . I ask the Defence Secretary to cast his mind back to March , when I ask the Prime Minister whether it would be folly to put british troop into Ukraine without a US backstop — without a guarantee from the White House — and the Prime Minister agree that it would indeed be folly . do that remain the Government ' s position ? the Government ' s position be that we be discuss the nature of security guarantee and the contribution that we can help lead through the coalition of the willing , alongside any american support , and together that be part of the configuration of make Ukraine strong and create the circumstance in which serious negotiation , and we hope a peace agreement , can be reach . I warmly thank my right hon . friend for get this norwegian deal over the line . I feel a singular sense of pride about it , because my constituency of Glasgow South West and Govan will become the epicentre of Type 26 construction . will he undertake to work with I to ensure that my constituent feel the full benefit of this investment ? in that vein , will he urge the SNP Government to finally collaborate with we and to dispense with their ideological block on the defence sector , so that together , for want of a well word , we can be strong for Scotland ? first , may I say to my hon . friend that all of we in the House appreciate the contribution that his constituent , as part of that Govan workforce , make to build the outstanding british ship ? the norwegian Prime Minister have a tell way of explain the decision on Sunday , when he say that they have weigh two question : " who be our most strategic partner ? and who have deliver the good frigate ? . . . the answer to both be the United Kingdom . " it be also tell that the nationalist - lead Scottish Government be yet to welcome this contract and this success . first , I commend the Defence Secretary and Admiral Sir Tony Radakin for their commitment to a just peace in Ukraine . however , I agree with the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) that the most reluctant member of this coalition of the willing appear to be President Trump . do the Defence Secretary agree that it be particularly disappointing that he be unable to give an update on seize the $ 300 billion in frozen russian asset ? there be slow progress on that , but it be perhaps our strong potential lever in exert pressure on Russia to deliver a just peace . I do not entirely agree with the hon . Gentleman . the declaration that the President of the United States have make about make the European - lead arrangement for security guarantee , in his word , " very secure " be important and significant . those discussion continue . the shape of any potential and possible deployment to support and secure a long - term peace will depend hugely on the nature of the peace agreement itself . it be for those reason that it be not possible to set out in public at this stage the detail , but we continue those discussion on the nature of the support that can be give to Ukraine in the event of a ceasefire and a peace agreement , and on the sort of pressure that may be require to make sure that those serious negotiation can take place . I want to share with the House the deep solidarity from the Ukraine Appeal and the Sunflower Ukrainian supplementary school in my constituency of Milton Keynes about the recent attack in Kyiv and on the British Council . the British Council ' s vital cultural initiative have support peace and create community cohesion around the world . it be in that spirit that the Ukraine Appeal have create an exhibition , " face of ukrainian Dream " , by the child who go to its Sunflower school . that exhibition will be tour Milton Keynes , include Bletchley Park . will the Defence Secretary join I in express our solidarity to the ukrainian family in Milton Keynes and across the UK , and those still in Ukraine ? Slava Ukraini . I will indeed express that solidarity , and not just with those ukrainian family and child ; I also pay tribute to the people of Milton Keynes who have open their home to house the family of those ukrainian child . it be often the child and the family who will feel the threat and the grief most fiercely , and the fact that they have express such strong solidarity with those British Council worker in the face of that attack be something that we all appreciate , and I would be grateful on behalf of the House if my hon . Friend pass that on . I be sure that right hon . and hon . member on both side of the House share my disgust at the sight of the killer in the Kremlin have a red carpet roll out for he that might as well have be stain with the blood of all those who have die in a conflict that be down entirely to he , and to he alone . however , when we talk about meaningful security guarantee , it be perhaps worth remember that the only reason why , when Germany be divide at the end of the second world war , that be a stable division be that both side know that anyone cross a line would be initiate an international conflict . surely any security guarantee that do not automatically guarantee the involvement of other state in the defence of Ukraine will not be worth the paper on which it be write . the purpose of the " coalition of the willing " force that we be lead the work to plan for be about actively secure the ukrainian sky , actively make the ukrainian sea safe , and provide a presence that will help to reassure , as well as help to build up the Ukrainians to deter and defend for themselves . it start from the first premise that in the circumstance of a peace agreement , for the medium and the long term , the strong defence and the strong deterrence be the nature and strength of the Ukraine armed force themselves . that be our purpose , and that would be part of our mission . I thank my right hon . friend and his whole team for the incredible effort that they be make on this issue . over the weekend , Russia launch yet more devastating airstrike on Kyiv , kill 23 people include a two - year - old child . July be the deadly month of the conflict since its early stage , with more than 280 civilian kill and more than 1 , 300 injure . Russia have once again show its blatant disregard for human life , target , abduct , indoctrinate and even weaponise child . what further step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that Ukraine have the mean to defend itself from these heinous crime ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the campaigning that she be do , and not just on Ukraine generally but , in particular , to draw attention to the systematic programme that we have see from Putin and his troop in abduct ukrainian child and try to indoctrinate they into the russian way of life . I have have discussion with Secretary Umerov , when he be Defence Minister and now when he be Secretary of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council . he be lead the negotiation on behalf of President Zelensky , and some of the early discussion potentially with the russian side be about prisoner of war swap and about the return of those ukrainian child . I welcome the norwegian investment in Glasgow ' s shipyard . the Norwegians understand the importance of european security . the Norwegians understand the importance of territorial integrity . the Norwegians understand the importance of the high north . I pay credit to those at RM Condor , in my constituency , for their work in that particular area . they know that Donetsk be ukrainian , that Luhansk be ukrainian , and that Crimea be ukrainian . the United States ambassador to NATO say recently that no " chunk " that have not be " earn on the battlefield " should be give over to Russia . when the Secretary of State meet his US counterpart in a couple of week , will he make it clear that no chunk of Ukraine be earn by aggressor on the battlefield , and that Ukraine ' s territorial integrity be testament regardless of our political allegiance here ? the Ukrainians be fight for their territorial integrity . the Ukrainians be do the fighting , and it be for the Ukrainians to decide when to stop fight and the term on which they do so . our job in the UK , and my job as Defence Secretary , be to ensure that we give they the maximum support possible in the fight , and we will give the maximum support possible as they go into the negotiation . let I add that the hon . Gentleman ' s declaration — and I hope he can speak on behalf of his party — that he fully support that big ever british warship export deal be welcome in the House . I want to start by pay tribute to Andriy Parubiy , the former ukrainian Speaker , who be brutally assassinate in his home city of Lviv . he play a key role in the Maidan protest , which free Ukraine of russian interference . I really thank my right hon . friend for raise the issue of the British Council attack in Kyiv . a man be injure , and we need to remember that the British Council be not just any body ; it be an arm ' s length body of the fcdo . it take british culture and value , and english language teaching , around the world . in the same attack , the EU delegation building be also attack . we have hear tonight from Bulgaria that Ursula von der Leyen ' s plane be jam by Russia and have difficulty land — it have to use paper map to land . I be afraid to say that we be hear more and more on the street that this war be a matter for Ukraine and Russia , but I think everybody in this Chamber know that if Ukraine fall , it will not end there . this be a war for all of we , and Ukraine be fight for all of we . I would like my right hon . friend to reassure I that we be make it very clear that we know that Putin ' s aggression will not stop at Ukraine if Ukraine fail , that the Ukrainians be fight for all of we , and that we will give they all the support they need to ensure that we be all free in Europe . my hon . friend speak plainly and strongly . I recognise the work that he have do on Ukraine , just as President Zelensky do last month when he award my hon . friend the Ukrainian Order of Merit for his support . my hon . friend be right to remind the House of the recent assassination of Andriy Parubiy , which be a reminder of the brutality of the invasion . Andriy be not just a leader in the Maidan uprising ; he be an ex - Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament . in many way , his assassination bring home just how serious this war be for we in this House . finally , my hon . friend make the point that if Putin prevail in Ukraine , he will not stop at Ukraine . that be one of the reason why the british public , the British House of Commons and the british Government remain so steadfast in our support for Ukraine . it be 17 day since President Trump roll out the red carpet for Putin — during which time , as the Secretary of State say , Russia have step up its bombardment of Ukraine with drone and missile . I thank he for his remark about Andriy Parubiy , the former Speaker of the Rada . I know he well and admire he hugely . the last time I meet he be when we entertain he in this House as a visit Speaker . it be a mark of Putin ' s hatred of democracy that he regard the Speaker of a democratic Parliament as an appropriate target . do the Secretary of State agree that , at the present time , Putin show no interest in a ceasefire ? will the right hon . Gentleman do whatever he can to persuade President Trump that the only way that Putin can be make to consider a ceasefire be by step up the pressure on Russia through extra sanction , and by give ever more support to Ukraine ? I think the whole House appreciate the right hon . Gentleman ' s remark about Andriy Parubiy and the relationship that he have with he . on the question of pressure on Putin to come to the negotiating table , that be a matter for the nation that stand with Ukraine , and we be determined to play our role . it be also a matter that be recognise by the US and the US President . he want Putin to come to the table . he want Putin to start to act in the way that he say — interested in peace and ready to talk about peace — but at the moment , he be not yet show sign of do so . to secure peace in the long term for Ukraine we need to support its defence industrial base and therefore the financial sector that underpin it , but I be concerned that UK Export Finance red tape could be limit UK - Ukraine defence partnership . I also believe that we could launch new joint defence innovation fund . will my right hon . friend carefully consider these idea and work with I to discuss how we can support Ukraine ' s defence financing system ? the short answer be yes . the slightly long answer be that we be already work hard with Ukraine on some of these question of joint venture and joint industrial partnership . indeed , when President Zelensky visit Downing Street in June , our Prime Minister declare that this area of reinforce our industrial connection and joint enterprise will help Ukraine in the fight now and help develop ukrainian industry , but could also bring benefit to we and our armed force in the future . I congratulate the Secretary of State and all those involve on the Type 26 frigate deal , which be great news for all and for economic growth . I reiterate our continue support for Ukraine , and also for this Government and the Secretary of State in work with other world leader in try to secure a ceasefire . I suppose we should not be surprise by Putin ' s appal continuation of the bombing of Ukraine . may I urge the Secretary of State to work with other world leader to use the leverage , which I think we still have , of the $ 300 billion - worth of frozen central bank asset that could help in the negotiation with Putin ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I note his view on the frozen russian asset , and I welcome his declaration of support for Ukraine and his condemnation of Vladimir Putin . the all - party nature of the support for Ukraine in this House be very important , and it be particularly welcome that he be here and make that clear for the Reform party . Russia ' s aggression directly threaten our security here at home . do my right hon . friend agree that the push for peace matter not just for the ukrainian people , but for the security of we all , and that we must invest in the defence industry in constituency such as Wolverhampton North East to deter russian aggression and stand in solidarity with Ukraine ? I do , indeed . if for a moment this House consider a situation in which Putin prevail in Ukraine , it be not hard to see how that make Europe less secure . a strong Ukraine be essential for a secure UK and a secure Europe in the future . my hon . friend urge we to do more to reinforce the british defence industrial base . the record increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war that this Government be now commit to investing will be an important part of that , and I hope she will welcome the defence industrial strategy when we publish it shortly . give the red carpet treatment afford to Putin , will the Secretary of State remind our principal ally that it be our co - signatory to the Budapest memorandum ? the US be well aware that it be a co - signatory . everyone involve in try to support Ukraine through this war , and more importantly also consider the route to secure a long - term and just peace , be acutely aware of not repeat the mistake of the Budapest memorandum . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for the Government ' s unwavere support for Ukraine . give recent report that Starlink be disabled during a major ukrainian counter - offensive , highlight the danger of rely on a single privately own satellite system , will the Secretary of State outline what step the Government be take with their european ally to ensure that Ukraine have a resilient and sovereign communication system that can not be switch off at the whim of one individual ? without go into the detail in public , I can say to my hon . friend that , across a range of capability where the Ukrainians be require our support and our military aid , we be look to provide that . Ukraine need a just peace . it also need financial support to rebuild . the EU have say that it will allow frozen russian asset to be use in high risk investment to generate more money . what discussion have the Secretary of State have on support the EU ' s late effort to use Russia ' s asset to provide vital funding for Ukraine ? I have have none of those discussion myself , but the Government have have they with the European Union and with other ally that must be part of any effective plan to make use of the frozen russian asset . the hon . Lady will be aware of the way we be already make use of the interest on those frozen asset , put they to good use to make sure we can support Ukraine to continue its fight . a ukrainian constituent who have just return from a visit to Ukraine tell I today : " Russia be systematically destroy our border region and key infrastructure : medical , educational , civil , governmental and business . the scale of the problem go far beyond housing or temporary displacement — it be about the viability of life across large part of Ukraine . this be part of a wide strategy aim at render Ukraine ' s borderland uninhabitable . any recovery strategy will require year of investment , security guarantee and sustain international support . " in the light of that , I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , which demonstrate that british support for Ukraine be unwavering . can he confirm that we be use every tool at our disposal to ensure that the cynical russian policy describe by my constituent will ultimately be overcome ? I can confirm that we be do all we can . if my hon . friend or his constituent identifie area where we be not do that , I would welcome his tackle I on do so . the House should be grateful to the Secretary of State for give this statement today , because it underline how the Government be determined to keep this issue at the top of the british political agenda . he give quite an optimistic assessment of how we , the Ukrainians and her ally , be do in Ukraine , only inasmuch as Russia can not win this war . the risk — something I hope he will emphasise to President Trump — be that the west be lose the peace , and that by lose the peace we be lose our own security . in the word of his own strategic defence review , we need to mobilise the british people to have a national conversation as to why we need to step up our effort . be we really give Ukraine enough ? I do not think we be . the hon . Gentleman have deep experience , so I take his view very seriously . I would just say to he that we be do more this year than we have ever do before . we recognise that the UK on its own be limited and that we can play a really important role in step up the collective leadership , as we be do through the UDCG and the coalition of the willing . in that way , Britain can play a co - ordinating role to contribute to the support that Ukraine need . we do so with ally , and when we do so with ally , we make more of an impact . the Secretary of State will be aware that the Clyde be a wide river that straddle the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) and mine , so I join my colleague in welcome the deal with Norway that be conclude at the weekend . not only will it secure a bright future for the 100 - plus apprentice at BAE Systems on the Clyde , it will secure the future of shipbuilding on the Clyde , include at the Scottish Government - own Ferguson Marine , which be a subcontractor to BAE Systems . there be perhaps 10 billion reason why the Scottish Government should welcome the deal . the Secretary of State mention the diminution of Putin ' s strength . do he agree that the deal will help to further that diminution , particularly in the high north ? my hon . friend be exactly right . this will not just set new standard within NATO of interoperability and interchangeability , with effectively a combine Norwegian - UK anti - submarine force ; it mean that more frigate — a total of 13 anti - submarine frigate between the two nation — will be available to reinforce the northern flank of NATO to provide the sort of deterrence require to keep the russian threat in check . my hon . friend must be very proud of her Scotstoun yard . I hope that she will recognise , as I do , that this deal will secure the future of 4 , 000 job in the UK for many year , 2 , 000 of which be in Scotland . Admiral Sir Tony Radakin be a fine example of public service , so I humbly agree with the Defence Secretary about the retire Chief of the Defence Staff . when the CDS appear before the Defence Committee in June , he say of NATO that " the crucial thing be whether we be deter Russia and whether we can face down the threat of Russia " . he answer his own rhetorical question that we be , " absolutely " . follow the strike in Kyiv that damage the British Council and the EU ' s diplomatic mission last week , can the Defence Secretary set out how the UK and NATO be deter further symbolic attack like this one ? without wish to speak for he , I suspect that one of the thing Admiral Radakin will not miss in step down as CDS be appear before the Defence Committee , although I be sure he will still contribute to public debate on these matter . the hon . Gentleman make a general point about the attempt to step up our support for Ukraine . we will always try to respond to what Ukraine say it most need . as we go into next week ' s UDCG meeting , which I will be host with Minister Pistorius , that be exactly what we will try to do . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and his leadership on this issue . as the pressure on Ukraine to agree a ceasefire build , Russia too escalate its campaign of aerial attack on ukrainian civilian and civilian infrastructure . in the liberated city of Kherson , russian first - person drone operator be turn state killing into a grotesque spectacle that be publicly broadcast and have be christen a " human safari " . the provision and conversion of ukrainian Soviet - era missile into the Gravehawk system represent both real material aid and an accomplishment of british military engineering . crucially , it help to reduce dependency on any single supply chain and technology for aerial defence . will the Defence Secretary give the House an assurance that all step be be take to increase both the quantity and the diversity of air defence system for Ukraine ? we be do what we can to increase the diversity and quantity of air defence system . I be proud of what we have achieve with Gravehawk , which be a good example of two thing : first , innovation , and secondly , a combination of Ukraine and UK mind work together . when we do that , we can respond rapidly and in a way that meet Ukraine ' s need , but that also point the way to a different future in the way we develop the system that we need in our own force for the future . I should declare an interest in that my eld son today start work at Rosyth royal dockyard , a key part of british military infrastructure for more than 100 year . over the summer , we see Scotland ' s First Minister John Swinney meet with ukrainian military personnel at the Edinburgh military tattoo . incredibly , be those brave man and woman to be injure in the line of duty , NHS medical aid send from Scotland could not be use to treat they because of a prohibition put in place by the Scottish Government , who continue to refuse to fund warfighting capability in Scotland . with defence reserve to this place , Secretary of State , how be it possible that the devolved Administration in Holyrood can damage british interest and security in this manner ? the hon . member pose those question to I , but they be clearly not for I but for the scottish nationalist Government to answer . I would love to see an end to the antagonism to investment in Scotland — investment which support scottish job in the wide defence industry and support our UK security , in which Scotland play such a vital part . it ought to be something that the Scottish Government embrace and support , rather than resist and oppose . People in my constituency know the importance of stand with Ukraine in its fight , and in a recent survey I do , 87 % of they say that they support this Government ' s continue iron - clothe support for Ukraine , which after three - and - a - half year be an impressively high figure . do the Defence Secretary agree that the push for peace in Ukraine matter not just for Ukrainians , whose country have be attack for over a decade by russian force , but for our future security in Britain , and that we must therefore invest in the defence industry in region such as the east midland to deter future russian aggression ? the answer be yes , and I ask my hon . friend pass on to his constituent my appreciation for their support . at a level of support for Ukraine of 87 % , the constituent in Rushcliffe be an exemplification of the british spirit that recognise that Ukraine be fight for the same sort of freedom that we value and for its own future in the way that we in this country have do in the past . I thank the Secretary of State very much for his statement . I look forward very much to his statement in this Chamber , because he invariably bring we good news , and today he have do so again with the order of five frigate for Norway worth £ 10 billion . as a farmer , I be minded that while someone sow the seed , someone else garner the harvest , and the person who garner the harvest be the person who get the plaudit , so congratulation to the Minister for that . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with our american ally to ensure that the good of Ukraine be at the heart of any approach and that any mineral deal be secondary to our ensure that the battle be not fight in vain and that life be not lose in vain ? can he ensure that Putin and the russian army will be hold accountable for their war crime and their reign of terror , and that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will continue always to stand with Ukraine ? I think this House appreciate the hon . member ' s declaration on behalf of the people of Northern Ireland that they stand steadfast with Ukraine . the support that the UK Government — the previous Government and this government — be give to Ukraine to document in the most difficult circumstance of an ongoing war the evidence that will be require to bring the russian force and russian leader to account after the fighting be over be an important part of the contribution that we can make . funding , resource , and expert and legal advice be part of the ongoing aid that we be provide to Ukraine for that purpose . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and reiteration that we will always support the people of Ukraine . give Russia ' s despicable attack against civilian target in Kyiv , cost the life of over 20 civilian include child and damage a british Council building , it be quite clear that Vladimir Putin have very little interest in any legitimate peace process . give that report differ about how committed country be to deploy troop in Ukraine to enforce any potential peace agreement , can the Secretary of State set out how the UK be work with our ally to convince they to back security guarantee and peace in Ukraine , and will he state that there be nothing that Vladimir Putin can do now to deter our support for Ukraine ? there be indeed nothing that Putin can do to deter our support for Ukraine — our support while it fight , but also our preparation for the moment of peace that we hope will come . my hon . friend invite I to set out how we be develop that . we have have multiple meeting of our military leader and planner over the summer through the coalition of the willing . I will host this week a meeting of Defence Ministers from the coalition of the willing . it will be design to make sure that we maintain our military plan and step up the commitment to contribute at the point at which we can get a peace agreement in place . there will be a role for country like our to support Ukraine , both in secure that peace for the long term and in regenerate their own armed force to deter Russia in future . transnational repression in the UK Joint Committee on Human Rights Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . Alex Sobel will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention will be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement , which must be brief question , not full speech . can I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee member and not the Government Front Bench ? front bencher may take part in questioning . I be think that I might have have a quiet first day back after recess , but I have now be in the Chamber for six hour and 20 minute , so I be clearly work hard for my constituent yet again . I be also work hard on behalf of the Joint Committee on Human Rights for which I give this statement on the seventh report of the 2024 - 25 Session , " transnational repression in the UK " . the Committee believe that transnational repression be a serious and under - recognise threat . the report argue : " its impact extend far beyond those directly target , create a broad ' chilling effect ' on entire community and undermine fundamental right such as freedom of expression , assembly , and association . " the Committee receive credible evidence that a number of state have engage in act of transnational repression on UK soil . the report highlight China , Russia and Iran as the three most flagrant transnational repression perpetrator in the United Kingdom . transnational repression be generally understand to refer to certain state - direct crime or action against individual that take place outside the territory of the perpetrate state . transnational repression can take many form : it could include harassment , online disinformation campaign , surveillance , stalk and physical violence , in addition to threat to family member , attempt to force individual to return to their country of origin and assassination attempt . the Committee launch its inquiry into transnational repression in response to increase report of foreign government move beyond their border to persecute people here in the United Kingdom . in the last year , the number of state threat investigation run by MI5 have increase by 48 % . there have be several recent high - profile transnational repression case , include the issuance of bounty against Hong Kong pro - democracy activist and Iran ' s intimidation of UK - base journalist . MI5 and counter - terrorism police have deal with more than 20 threat - to - life case relate to Iran since the start of 2022 . the Government have recently set out a strategic framework to address transnational repression follow a review of the UK ' s transnational repression approach by the defend democracy taskforce . the Committee receive 181 write evidence submission , 91 of which we be able to publish . many submission be from people with personal experience of transnational repression . the Committee also hold four oral evidence session , where we hear from legal expert , academic , human right advocate , journalist and — most importantly — victim of transnational repression themselves . I express my gratitude to all those who contribute to the inquiry for their bravery in come forward ; in particular , those victim of transnational repression who put themselves at personal risk by come and appear in public before the Committee . there be currently no universally accept definition of transnational repression , and the UK Government have choose not to adopt a formal definition , opt instead to describe it as " certain foreign state - direct crime against individual . " without a clear definition of what constitute transnational repression , it be difficult to collate reliable datum on the scale and nature of transnational repression - relate activity . it appear that the Home Office do not currently collect or require police force to collect datum on transnational repression incident take place in the UK . the report recommend that the Government adopt a formal definition of transnational repression and establish data collection and monitoring mechanism . the Committee report welcome the introduction of the foreign influence registration scheme — FIRS — as a tool to help strengthen the UK ' s ability to tackle transnational repression . the designation of Iran and Russia as country list on the enhance tier of FIRS be consistent with the evidence present to the Committee regard the threat pose by transnational repression operate from these state . the report argue that China ' s omission from the enhance tier risk undermine the credibility and coherence of FIRS and recommend that China be specify under the enhance tier of FIRS . look to support for victim , transnational repression victim feel that the overall police response to transnational repression have be inconsistent . many affected individual describe limited awareness of transnational repression among frontline officer and a lack of clear referral pathway . some victim have even be advise to avoid political activity or to self - censor , while other have be incorrectly refer to hate crime or diversity and equality officer . counter - terrorism policing and the College of Policing have launch guidance and awareness module on foreign interference , and the power introduce in the National Security Act 2023 . this training be now available for all 45 territorial police force in the UK . however , the training be mandatory only for counter - terrorism officer . the report recommend that serious consideration should be give to make transnational repression training mandatory for all police officer . at present , victim of transnational repression be advise to report incident through standard police channel , for example by call 999 or 101 or by attend their local police station . however , victim feel that early sign of transnational repression could be more effectively identify though a dedicated helpline , where those answer call would have receive training on how to recognise and respond to transnational repression threat appropriately . the report recommend that the Government establish a reporting hotline for transnational repression victim . regard diplomatic policy , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office use tool to target transnational repression that largely align with those use to address other foreign policy challenge . these include private engagement with foreign government , issue a d é marche and terminate privilege and immunity , in addition to reduce official or ministerial contact , deny diplomatic visa , impose sanction or ask for diplomat to be withdraw or expel . the Global Human Rights Sanctions Regulations 2020 give the Secretary of State the power to designate individual for the purpose of impose sanction on they . the Secretary of State have to consider that the designation be appropriate , and must have reasonable ground to suspect that the person be or have be involve in an activity which , if carry out by a state , would amount to a serious violation of a person ' s right to life , their right not to be subject to torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment , or their right to be free from slavery . activity in the UK be cover if they be carry out by someone who be not a UK national . some transnational repression conduct may fall under the 2020 Regulations if it amount to a serious violation of the right to life or the right not to be subject to torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment . however , much transnational repression conduct , include even violence , intimidation , harassment , illegal deportation , abduction and interpol and extradition abuse , would fall outside the scope of the regulation . therefore , the Committee recommend that the Government review the scope of the UK ' s sanction framework to assess the feasibility of introduce specific transnational repression sanction . the UK should also adopt a more proactive approach to sanction , particularly in case where UK national and resident be directly affect . the report also recommend that the UK should ensure that diplomatic response , such as the expulsion of official , public d é marche and the imposition of sanction , be not only available in principle but actively and visibly deploy in response to serious incident . with that , I recommend this report to the House . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not usually get call first , so thank you very much for that . can I first of all thank the Chair of the Committee and the Committee for all that they do in relation to this issue ? I know that the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) have be incredibly committed to it . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief , and for we it be important to speak on behalf of many human right group , particularly the iranian Government in exile . Maryam Rajavi be the chair and have a 10 - point plan for Iran . have the Chairman and the Committee have the opportunity to gauge the transnational repression against people from Iran who live here in exile ? I be personally aware of some of the repression and spying that they experience . I thank the hon . member for his question . I have work with he , as he know , on the APPG for international freedom of religion or belief . religious belief be one of the reason why we see transnational repression , and China be a particular example when it come to subject citizen to it for their religious belief . we take evidence from a senior member of the iranian diaspora , Mr Abedini , as part of the evidence , who be very nearly kill — not in the UK but in Turkey , which still be transnational repression because he be not in Iran . he be only save because the gun jam on the third shot when he be attack . as I say , we know that Iran be increase its attack . individual member — myself and the Chair , as the hon . Member refer to — work closely with many iranian group base here , in France and in other place . much of our evidence be from those from the iranian community . I thank my fellow Committee member for represent our inquiry so well today and the Security Minister , who be in his place , for engage with our inquiry . I recently host a meeting of the Bracknell Hong Kong community in my constituency . I be sadden but unfortunately not surprised to hear from they that some member of that community choose not to come to the meeting with their local MP because of their concern about the political repercussion it may have for they and their family . that go to show the chilling effect that transnational repression can have , not just on individual when they be target by state but on whole community . do my hon . friend agree , and be it not a central part of our report , that it can not be right in our democratic system , in our democratic country , that any individual or community should ever feel they be not able to engage in that democracy ? fundamentally , that be at the heart of what make our country so fantastic . I thank my hon . friend for his role in this inquiry and the great role he play on the Committee . I will start by talk about the absolutely brilliant evidence we receive from Chloe Cheung from Hong Kong , who be from Leeds . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mark Sewards ) , who represent she , be just here . she speak to exactly that point . because of her activity in Leeds — be visible , demonstrate , help set up hongkonger in Leeds — she have a million - dollar bounty put on her head at the age of 80 . it be incumbent on we to ensure the safety of the Hong Kong community . one of the shortcoming we find in the evidence be the fact that Chloe be advise just to call 999 or 101 when she be threaten . she be even follow by two people who she suspect be either interested in the bounty or from the state authority . we need to do much more to protect democracy activist and just ordinary hongkonger who live here , go about their daily life . I hope the Minister have hear that , and he will also have read our report and see the evidence from Chloe . we look forward to the Met , West Yorkshire police and other in upscale their support for people like Chloe . it strike I that this be an excellent report that have be present to we by the joint Committee this evening . the report deal with slapp — strategic lawsuit against public participation . I appreciate that the hon . Member be not able to get to that in his allotted 10 minute , so I would like to ask a little more about anti - slapp legislation . during the last government — I think it be in February 2024 — a private Member ' s Bill be bring forward to try to introduce anti - slapp legislation , but that legislation fall at the end of the last Government . I understand that some provision be introduce as part of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , but do he feel that more need to be do on anti - slapp legislation and how soon should this House and the Government be do it ? I thank the hon . member for his question on slapp . in our inquiry , we hear from those who be preclude from report on certain type of transnational repression through the use of slapp , which be relevant to the inquiry and to expose transnational repression in the United Kingdom . although we have not put forward an amendment or a legislative mechanism , that be certainly in the scope of the report . Petition - Bank Facilities in Moffat I rise to present a petition on behalf of constituent who be user of the Bank of Scotland Moffat branch . early this year , out of the blue , the Bank of Scotland announce the closure of all five of its branch in my constituency , along with many other across Scotland , lead , in my view , to that bank give up on rural community . Moffat be particularly affect because it be 23 mile from the next near branch in Dumfries , have a high elderly and vulnerable population , be a tourist town that attract many visitor , and have a large number of business that rely on cash . the petition state : the petition of user of the Bank of Scotland Moffat Branch , declare that resident of Moffat and Upper Annandale and visitor to the area will be leave without banking service and access to cash by the propose closure of the local Bank of Scotland branch in Moffat , thereby cause significant concern and worry for the local community , particularly the elderly and vulnerable , and local business , particularly in the hospitality industry , who rely on this these banking service ; far that the petition organise locally by Evelyn Atkins call on the Bank of Scotland to reverse the closure decision have garner over 3 , 000 signature from the local community and visitor to the town . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to call on the Bank of Scotland to keep its Moffat Branch open and to ensure that the resident of Moffat and Upper Annandale have proper access to cash and banking facility . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003104 ] Lisbon Maru Memorial Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) I thank the Minister for her time and attention on the debate . on 1 October 1942 , an unmarked japanese freighter call the Lisbon Maru be carry over 1 , 800 british and ally prisoner of war — hundred be from the Royal Scots regiment . the prisoner have be capture after the fall of Hong Kong and be destine for internment in Japan . condition for prisoner on this ship , and many freighter like it , be brutal and unsanitary . they become know as " hell ship " because of the suffering of those on board . for many , include the freighter , that be their final voyage . on that day , the Lisbon Maru be torpedo by a submarine in the east China sea . although the japanese troop on board the vessel be rescue , the pow be lock in the ship ' s hold . as the vessel sink , many be trap , and those who escape be shoot by guard who remain board , or from nearby japanese vessel . many other be gun down in the water as they desperately try to survive . amid that horror , a glimmer of humanity emerge : chinese fisherman from nearby island risk their life to rescue hundred of survivor , and give they shelter in their home . their effort speak to a spirit that we know well , one that remind we of our own Dunkirk evacuation , show common humanity in the face of unimaginable horror . this tragedy be not know to I until this year , when a constituent reach out . for Gerry Borge , his father John and uncle Eddie ' s extraordinary experience on board the Lisbon Maru and their miraculous survival be a story he need to share . John and Eddie be unfortunately recapture and imprison for the remainder of the war , but they finally return home , unlike so many other . I commend the hon . Lady for secure this debate . she have put forward this story with so much passion and interest in the people , and I congratulate she on that . again , I remember and pay tribute to the victory over Japan . I commemorate it at an event just last week , and so this be a timely debate . I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for her passion for establish a fitting tribute . I will support she as she try to achieve that goal . do she agree that the tragedy , result in the death of more than 800 prisoner — many of whom be from Scotland and , in particular , area such as West Lothian — make a memorial seem appropriate as we understand the loss to family throughout Scotland that take place as a result of the sinking of the Lisbon Maru ? it would be appropriate to do something like that now . the hon . Gentleman make an important point , and one that I will come on to . I agree wholeheartedly with his sentiment . Gerry write to I in a plea to shine a light on the tragedy when the Lisbon Maru sank , which impact many family . I speak to he last week in my office and the message he want I to convey this evening be the timeless one that , even during the horror of war , the action of the chinese fisherman exemplify the human instinct to reach out and to help our fellow human being . many who experience conflict , especially in the Pacific theatre , never feel able to share their story , yet each town and village in this country will have its own relationship with conflict and a loss to remember . honour our history and the conflict that have often define it be something I believe Britain have do well over the year . the dedication of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and the monument that we erect be a powerful legacy of the sacrifice make and the life cut short . however , that be also a promise : wherever one die in conflict around the globe , they will be remember back home for their heroism , their service and the legacy that they leave . I thank my hon . friend for this debate . a few day ago , in my office , I meet relative of people who die on the Suez Maru , which be lose in similar circumstance , with about 550 prisoner of war on it , a great number of whom be machinegunne in the water by member of the imperial japanese navy . the fight of the relative I meet be not for a memorial ; it be for an answer from the Government about why a war crime trial do not take place . all these year later , it be an emotive subject for they , and one of the relative be cry in my office . that be a reminder that although year have pass — that ship be lose in 1943 — people can still feel raw and emotional . it be right that we remember such loss . I thank my hon . friend for make that powerful and important point : people do not come home from war and people come home from war change , not the same person who leave . we owe they a debt of gratitude and we owe it to they never to forget the sacrifice they make and the legacy that they leave for we in secure our freedom . the death of the servicemen in the tragedy of the Lisbon Maru , include the 373 Royal Scots who perish , be a reminder of Scotland ' s historic contribution to the war effort . it will be the 83rd anniversary of the tragedy a month from now , but the commemoration have already begin . a few month ago , Gerry and several relative of those who be prisoner of war attend an unveiling ceremony of a new memorial on Qingbang island , south - east of Shanghai . it be greatly welcome that the plight and the story of those servicemen be recognise around the world , but it be important that we remember it at home as well . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward the debate and the fact that we be able to have a debate in the House specifically about VJ Day . it be an issue that the event in the far east and some of the horror that happen there be not know as well as they should be . I be not aware of this specific incident until I hear the hon . Lady mention it previously , so I commend she . do she agree that we must continue to bring out all the fact about the event in the far east , where Scotland play a particular role , so that people understand the contribution and the sacrifice that be make ? I thank the right hon . member for that point , which he make very well . indeed , my grandfather serve in Burma , yet that story be not really know in our family as it be a story not tell at the time . it be important to bring those story into the light and to hear about the sacrifice , which be quite unimaginable to many people of our generation . it be important that those story continue to be tell . the National Memorial Arboretum have a dedicated memorial to the Lisbon Maru tragedy , and it graciously host the family for a memorial ceremony every year , for which I know the relative and the country be grateful . People have memorial in their community to commemorate the personal loss of war and provide a focal point for remembrance . in a detached and inhumane conflict that seem far away , the consequence be feel by the empty seat around the dinner table at home . from the conflict of the second world war , the world develop humanitarian law and more humane treatment of prisoner , which have underpin our international community for decade . it be important that we recommit ourselves to learn those lesson and , as we have hear throughout this evening , that we continuously strive to win the peace . the good way to remind ourselves and teach our young people be to show that the tragedy of war be universal and feel everywhere . a new memorial to the Lisbon Maru would be an excellent place to learn just that : the bravery of those man who suffer as prisoner of war and of the fisherman , but also the horror of war that must not be repeat . my constituency be no strange to powerful memorial . the Bathgate hill host a memorial to those who die in the korean war of the 1950 . it be a beautiful , peaceful and sobering place to reflect on those kill , capture and maim very far from home . its presence encourage we to spark conversation with new generation about the lesson of the past , and the sacrifice that be make for their future . the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , have be a welcome advocate in my constituency , not just with the new VALOUR guarantee set out by this government , but his personal support for a local memorial to the woman in wartime who work in hazardous condition in a munition factory . while the dedicated work of Gerry and the Lisbon Maru Memorial Association will ensure that the legacy live on , I ask the Minister to consider support a new national memorial close to home for the family of the Royal Scots , commemorate those who survive , those who die and their rescuer . a memorial in Scotland will provide a space for family like Gerry ' s to share their story and remember together . finally , I thank Gerry for share his family ' s personal story with I — a story of two young man , far from home , face inconceivable horror — and for allow I to record it in this place . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) on secure this debate on the potential merit of Government support for a memorial to the Lisbon Maru . in particular , I congratulate she on the very moving and evocative way in which she tell the story of this tragedy and the sheer humanity exhibit by those who come to the rescue . let I put on record our tribute to her constituent Gerry for record his family ' s story — it must have be painful , but it be so incredibly important . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) and the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) for add their reflection to this debate , and all hon . member who have stay to listen to it this evening . I begin my own reflection by acknowledge and honour the service and suffering of british and Commonwealth prisoner of war in the Pacific theatre during the second world war . as we have hear today , this issue have impact on many life very deeply , include the family of the many scottish servicemen who tragically lose their life . as my hon . friend the Member for Bathgate and Linlithgow have say , every constituency have a story to tell , so it be right that we remember all those who die , those who suffer appalling injury and those who be torture and imprison during this conflict . it be right that we thank they and recognise that they suffer deeply for our share freedom . I recently have the privilege of represent the UK Government at the VJ Day 80th anniversary service at Edinburgh castle , organise by the Royal British Legion Scotland . I be deeply move to spend time with family recount the story of their own love one who have serve in world war two across all theatre , and I will never forget the story they tell and the lesson they impart on the power of forgiveness , service and sacrifice . similarly , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland meet Margaret Landels and George McLeod , both world war two veteran , during his recent visit to Lady Haig ' s Poppy Factory for VE Day . both of those significant national occasion be reminder of the price pay for our freedom , and they highlight the importance of stand alongside our ally , particularly , as we hear early from the Secretary of State for Defence , in continue our support for Ukraine . the UK will always support Ukraine ' s sovereignty , freedom and right to peace . I have cause to reflect on that personally when I attend the third anniversary commemoration of Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine at the scottish national war memorial . the memorial at Edinburgh castle honour all scottish service personnel who have die in the service of their country and act as a truly poignant symbol of Scotland ' s long - stand tradition of contribute to the UK ' s national defence . scot in the armed force , their family and their community be rightly proud of Scotland ' s deep - root military history . scot have a very long tradition of defend the UK ' s interest around the world . but beyond remember our fall hero , we have a duty to ensure that veteran and their family today receive the support and care that they deserve , no matter where they live in the UK . that be why this Government have take significant step to deliver on our promise to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve and have serve . I be proud that this Government launch Op VALOUR , a transformative initiative back by a £ 50 million commitment to veteran ' support . we also launch a £ 75 million LGBT financial redress scheme . through Op Ascend , we be help veteran to thrive in their post - service career , provide they with opportunity to succeed in the civilian workforce . let I turn to the specific subject of today ' s debate . the UK Government deeply regret the loss of life that occur on the Lisbon Maru and the result distress cause by the decision not to pursue a case against those involve . the Government of Japan have acknowledge and show contrition for their wartime action on numerous occasion over the past several decade , include from past Prime Ministers and Emperors . since the second world war , the UK and Japan have continue to work hard to promote our share democratic value and respect for human right , in the hope that we will never , ever see a repeat of these event anywhere in the world . I see the closeness of our modern partnership when I visit Japan only last month . as my hon . Friend mention , there be rightly a memorial locate at the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire , which commemorate all those who be take captive and those who perish . on 2 October every year there be now an annual gathering at the memorial to remember and honour those affect by this tragedy . I will also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Lisbon Maru Memorial Association for its dedicated work in preserve the history of the event surround the sinking of the Lisbon Maru and honour all those who be aboard she . as heritage be a devolved policy area in Scotland , any funding of such memorial remain the preserve of public subscription drive by individual and organisation . I therefore encourage the Scottish Government to consider how they can well support effort to commemorate those in Scotland affect by the tragic event of the Lisbon Maru , ensure that the memory of the 183 servicemen from the Royal Scots regiment who lose their life be truly honour . I know that my hon . friend the Minister for Veterans and People engage regularly with the Scottish Veterans Commissioner , who advocate for veteran live in Scotland and influence policymaker on matter affect veteran . all our government must continue to work together on how we appropriately honour and remember the past . in closing , let we remember that our commitment to veteran be not just a promise ; it be an ongoing , deep obligation . it be our responsibility to honour their service , acknowledge their sacrifice and — most of all — preserve their memory for future generation . together , we will continue to build a future in which every single veteran receive the care , support and opportunity that they rightfully deserve . question put and agree to . House adjourn .