if I may , I will answer that in a moment , because I will now turn back to the report . in lay the report before Parliament , the ombudsman bring matter to the House ' s attention , make it clear that Parliament have a role in respond to the report . the Government intend to engage fully and constructively with Parliament . I view this debate as a crucial part of that process . I remind the House about what the ombudsman ' s report say — and indeed do not say . the ombudsman have look not at the decision to equalise the state pension age but rather at how that decision be communicate by the DWP . that be important to understand , as the motion call on the Government to " deliver prompt compensation to woman bear in the 1950 who have their State Pension age raise . " importantly , the ombudsman ' s report hint at the Department ' s decision over a narrow period between 2005 and 2007 , and their effect on individual notification . the ombudsman have not find that woman have directly lose out financially as a result DWP action . the report state : " we do not find that it " — the DWP ' s communication — " result in they suffer direct financial loss . " the final report do not say that all woman bear in the 1950 will have be adversely impact , as many woman be aware that the state pension age have change . the stage 1 report find that between 1995 and 2004 , the DWP ' s communication of change to the state pension age reflect the standard that the ombudsman would expect it to meet . that report also confirm that accurate information about change to the state pension age be publicly available in leaflet , through the DWP pension education campaign and DWP agency and on its website . however , when consider the Department ' s action between August 2005 and December 2007 , the ombudsman come to the view that they result in 1950 - bear woman receive individual notice later than they might have do have different decision be make . I welcome the wide - range contribution from member on behalf of their constituent .