Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Energy Transition Projects : Scotland what step he be take to support energy transition project in Scotland . what step he be take to support energy transition project in Scotland . we be support Scotland through the North sea transition deal , contract for difference for renewable energy , and more than £ 80 million of net zero innovation portfolio funding . I thank the Secretary of State for that response , particularly in relation to CfDs . will he commit today to a clear pathway for the true commercial - scale development of tidal stream energy ? a ringfence in the CfD auction be welcome , but it be only scratch the surface of what the industry can deliver . investor in project be stall , as they need long - term visibility . the industry — and , indeed , all of we — need this technology to succeed . let we unlock this predictable , renewable power and create an industry and sector that we can be proud of and that can be make on these island . we need a commitment today that the ringfenced budget will increase , to allow cost to fall and true - scale project to be deliver . if we want energy security , here be the pathway . we be mean to be ask question , not make statement . fortunately , the answer be pretty straightforward . as the right hon . Gentleman mention , we be do tidal power in this CfD round . that be to be welcome and we look forward to this industry expand in the future , as some of the technicality and technical difficulty be resolve . I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) have visit recently to see this in action . energy storage be vital to manage demand as we switch to renewable electricity . pump storage hydro be the most efficient large - scale storage method . UK capacity could be more than double by six project across Scotland that have be shovel ready for more than five year . they take a long time to build , so why be the UK Government not support investment in infrastructure that be critical for our future energy security ? I have discuss this matter with SSE in relation to that particular hydro storage project , and my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State meet msp yesterday to discuss the subject as well . we be keen to have this kind of hydro storage , which be why our plan allow for it to be take forward . however , I have to say to Opposition Members — all of they — that it be no good just have one kind of storage or one kind of tidal power ; we also need to protect the scottish economy with oil and gas to make sure we be not subject to Putin or any other dictator hold we to ransom over our energy security . it be good to hear that the Secretary of State be support the economy in Scotland , but my question be : how be the UK Government invest in grid capacity in Wales ? in Wales , such investment be crucial if we be to support energy transition project such as the Holyhead hydrogen hub , Minesto , Morlais , BP Mona , Lightsource BP and , of course , new nuclear at Wylfa . Grid capacity in Scotland , Wales , England and Northern Ireland be at the top of our list . the Winser review have do a lot of work to look at how we can speed up the delivery of that capacity , give the big transition that be go on and this country ' s big lead in renewable , which make that necessary . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . on pumped storage hydro , it be as though the Secretary of State just do not get it . it increase energy resilience and would reduce the £ 4 . 2 billion balancing cost that be get pay out at the moment . the 1 . 5 GW Coire Glas scheme can be deliver in seven year , and it would power 3 million home for a 24 - hour period . the Government have find £ 700 million for Sizewell C and they have implement cap and floor mechanism for interconnector , so why be he not have proper discussion with SSE about a cap and floor mechanism ? the Secretary of State do in fact get it , because we support the idea of have thing such as hydro power . again , I have to say that there be a choice where taxpayer ' money be spend . it have to be do competitively in the round . to be talk merely about storage and not the generation , include nuclear power , which be a key part of this country ' s energy security future , simply mean that the overall view that the SNP have be unbalanced when it come to how we power our nation . the Secretary of State have prove he still do not get it — he be not have proper discussion with SSE . if we move to carbon capture and storage , the Climate Change Committee ' s progress report identify " risk " and " significant risk " associate with industrial cluster and carbon dioxide storage , which prove it be nonsensical to have Acorn as a reserve . when will the Government announce the track 2 cluster and provide parity for Acorn ? when do he envisage Acorn start construction ? that be vital to meet the 2030 target . as the hon . Gentleman know , we have already pump £ 40 million into Acorn . it be on the reserve list . he ask when ; the answer be this year for track 2 and track 1 expansion . so I say it again : the Secretary of State do get it . Energy Intensive Industries : Decarbonisation what step his Department be take to help energy intensive industry decarbonise . the Government be invest billion to support the development and deployment of carbon capture , utilisation and storage , hydrogen and other decarbonisation technology , and have a range of policy support industrial decarbonisation , such as the industrial energy transformation fund and local industrial decarbonisation plan . there be 23 clean steel project across Europe , but none in the UK . meanwhile , the UK be the only country in the G20 where steel production be fall . other country recognise the importance of their domestic steel industry , and they recognise the importance of invest in low - carbon steel . why do this Government not support our steel ? as the hon . Gentleman know well , this Government do support the UK steel industry . on his broad point , which he mention in his original question , UK industrial emission have fall 65 % since 1990 , and we be make significant investment in industrial decarbonisation , not least the £ 20 billion announce at the end of March , which will contribute to decarbonisation through CCUS and help the steel industry . do Ministers agree that the Government ' s competition for small modular nuclear reactor will help provide the volume of energy we need for energy - intensive domestic industry and , over the long term , at a low cost than previous nuclear power station ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . there be enormous enthusiasm on the Government side of the House for the potential of nuclear , include small modular reactor . we be determined to see that go forward as quickly as possible , which be why the new organisation , great British Nuclear , be do a rapid down selection of technology this year , precisely in order to unlock the benefit that my right hon . friend so correctly highlight . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . on decarbonisation , many organisation , such as the Institution of Civil Engineers , be ask about the Government ' s net zero growth plan , which say : " the public will play a key role in the transition and therefore we will set out further detail on how Government will increase public engagement on net zero . " can the Minister clarify when that detail will be publish ? I thank the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . he be right that as well as top - down Government policy , we must unlock the huge public desire of people to play their part and make sure we have the right information in place . that will be provide and produce as soon as possible . the Minister will welcome measure that many business be already undertake simply because they be the right thing to do , include traditionally carbon - intensive industry , such as cement manufacturing . Cemex in my constituency be invest to use decarbonise raw material and trialle the use of hydrogen in the combustion process , which will significantly reduce the amount of co2 generate by every tonne of cement manufacture in Rugby ? my hon . friend be right , and he be right to champion those industry that be work so hard to decarbonise already . as my hon . Friend say , we have the net zero hydrogen fund , which will provide up to £ 240 million by 2025 to support the development and construction of new low - carbon hydrogen production plant , which will be able to assist in cement as well as other industry . lithium - ion Battery Storage Facilities : regulation what assessment he have make of the adequacy of regulation for industrial lithium - ion battery storage facility . it be a priority for this Government that all net zero energy infrastructure be build , operate and maintain in an appropriate and safe way . my official work closely with the industry - lead electricity storage health and safety governance group to ensure an appropriate , robust and future - proof health and safety framework be sustain as storage deployment increase . we need to increase power storage , but the potential fire risk associate with lithium - ion battery storage facility be now become widely acknowledge . what be my hon . friend do to ensure those facility be not build in inappropriate location , such as Basing Fenn in my constituency , which be a site sandwich between a rare north - flow , salmonid chalk stream and a hospital ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question and her tireless campaign on this important issue . as I discuss in that very positive meeting that I have with she yesterday , I have be work with colleague across Government to establish the appropriate treatment of these facility in planning and environmental regulation . every site should be consider on its own merit and be a decision for our local authority . will this Government stop chuntere on about battery and battery storage all the time ? will they get down to JCB and see its innovative new hydrogen fuel car and heavy good vehicle ? be it not about time that we realise that hydrogen be the future and that this Government should be build a pipeline of hydrogen throughout the country ? I will not be draw on chuntering on by the hon . Gentleman , but let I just say that it be this Government who allow JCB to proceed with that technology and to develop it at commercial scale . I be pleased to tell he that the Secretary of State will be visit imminently . float Offshore wind : Supply Chain what step he be take to help increase the potential benefit of float offshore wind for the supply chain . the Government be commit to place the UK at the forefront of the float wind sector . I be delighted to announce that the Crown estate will be provide an update to industry this morning on a 4 GW leasing round in the Celtic sea and have already commission the survey work require to support it . the development of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea be a once - in - a - generation opportunity for my Aberavon constituency , for Wales and for the entire United Kingdom . last week , the Climate Change Committee rightly blast the Government for fail to deliver on their net zero commitment . I be profoundly concerned that float offshore wind will be squander due to the lack of grip and direction that the committee describe . when will the Minister be bring forward an industrial strategy for float offshore wind , which will ensure that Welsh manufacturing and Welsh job be place at the heart of turbine and substructure fabrication , start with the vital seabed licensing process . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . we be the world leader in float offshore wind and we be determined to stay there in order to realise the industrial benefit , which he rightly champion , and the opportunity in Wales . the float wind demonstration programme — [ interruption . ] the Labour Front - Bench team really do not like to hear this , do they ? the fact that we have cut our emission more than any other major economy on earth under this Government be what lead those on the Labour Front Bench to sense their own inadequacy , because they know what they leave behind . that float wind demonstration programme be support innovation with £ 31 million of Government funding match by £ 30 million from industry . float offshore wind and all these exciting generation technology be wonderful , but all of they will come to nought unless we can increase the speed and capacity of the grid connection to get the electricity onshore and to the user who need it . what be the Minister do to sort out the national grid and to speed up the way in which grid connection be make , because , without this , we will go nowhere ? my hon . friend put it so well . it be so true : whatever the generation , if we can not get the electron where they need to go , we be frustrated . that be why we be determined to speed up the connection . that be why , from the Pick report on offshore wind to the Nick Winser review , this Government , lead by the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) — this be the first time that this country have have a network Minister — be absolutely focused , in a laser - like way , on make sure that we speed up and get the delivery of the infrastructure that we need to deliver the green transition . Onshore Wind Proposals : Community Engagement what step his Department have take to ensure local community engagement in onshore wind proposal . the Government want community to participate in and benefit from onshore wind propose in their local area . on 11 May , the Government issue a consultation for onshore wind partnership in England , propose improvement to the current system of community engagement and benefit . some energy firm give discount to those who live near onshore wind farm when the wind blow . unfortunately , though , that be not the case everywhere . will the Minister look again at this policy nationally so that my constituent , such as those who live in Ulley near Penny Hill wind farm , and even myself — I live in Harthill near Loscar wind farm — will see the benefit of clean , green wind power reflect in their energy bill ? the consultation on onshore wind partnership propose that the Government work with renewableuk to update the industry - wide community benefit protocol for onshore wind in England . an update protocol would seek to encourage more innovative approach , for example through developer support local energy bill discount . the consultation close on 7 July . I be not sure there be much point in community engagement when there be no onshore wind . we do not have any onshore wind . last week , we hear the Climate Change Committee ' s devastating report on this country ' s commitment to net zero . when will this Government unlock the barrier to onshore wind ? I completely refute the suggestion that we have no onshore wind . onshore wind contribute 14 GW of power to the UK ' s national grid as we speak , and of course we support the deployment of onshore wind with community . we come now to the shadow Minister . the Minister be sort of right that there have be some onshore wind turbine build just recently — two since February 2022 , so there be not much chance of community engagement there , to be honest . in December , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities promise that the onshore wind ban would be completely lift by the end of April this year . why have the Government break that promise ? I will take no lecture from the Labour party on develop renewable electricity . when Labour leave office in 2010 — [ interruption . ] they do not like to hear this , but when Labour leave office in 2010 , less than 7 % of the grid be account for by renewable . now it be 43 % . I think maybe the Government should take lesson from Labour . it be now generally understand that the Government consultation be likely to lead to only minimal relaxation of planning rule and that onshore wind will effectively remain ban . tory peer Lord Deben , chairman of the Climate Change Committee , say of the consultation on Saturday that it be simply unacceptable that the Government be still discuss whether they be in favour of onshore wind or not when it be widely recognise as one of the cheap form of energy generation . he be right , be he not ? I really wish the Labour party would stop talk down what we be do on renewable electricity . I remind the House that the consultation on onshore wind finish on 7 July . Energy and Trade Intensive Industries what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of additional support for energy and trade intensive industry . wholesale energy price have fall significantly since the peak of the energy crisis , so the energy bill discount scheme strike a balance between provide support and certainty to business and limit the impact on public finance . I thank my hon . friend for a proper derbyshire answer . can she give more information on how the Government be work to help wedding venue and hospitality in general with extreme cost for electricity and gas , particularly where business have sign long - term contract in the face of fall world price ? I thank my hon . friend from South Derbyshire — it be a great county to live in , with great hospitality — for her question . business , include the hospitality sector , have already benefit from the energy bill relief scheme , which end on 31 March and provide £ 7 . 4 billion of support . we be mindful of the fix - term contract , which be a supplier issue , and we be constantly engage with stakeholder and supplier on that . last week I attend the opening of the first phase of a new solar farm at Newcastle airport . it be 50 % fund by the regional development fund , which post Brexit we no long have access to . the further three phase be vital to ensure that the airport meet its net zero target and the Government meet their solar target , so what be the Government do to ensure that those further three phase will be support in some way by the Government ? I thank the hon . Lady for that information . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I will take that question away and find out more detail . I call the shadow Minister . the director general of UK Steel say this week : " there be huge question mark over if government really want to sustain steel , the backbone of british manufacturing , or just leave it to shrink and rely on other nation ' supply . " he be right to say that . it be four year since the Government promise the green steel fund , but not a penny have be pay . why be the Government fail our steel community so comprehensively ? that be absolutely not true ; we be legislate for that at the moment . it be incredibly important to the government that we combat that and support the energy and trade - intensive industry . the Committee on Climate Change say last week that " the Government have high ambition for decarbonisation but no policy to deliver it " . we have be slow to react to the US Inflation Reduction Act and to the EU ' s propose green deal industrial plan . the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who , for the benefit of the Minister , be not from the Labour Benches , say : " where the UK once lead , we be now fall behind . " when will Ministers snap out of their appalling complacency and come up with the strategy and timeline that we need to support the UK in the global race for green job and investment ? we have meet all our carbon target and will continue to do so . the Government have make the commitment to continue hit and progress on those target . clean Energy Projects : planning System what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on the adequacy of the planning system for clean energy project . my Department have be work closely with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on deliver the proposal in the publish action plan for reform and speed up the nationally significant infrastructure project planning process . an important part of those reform involve update and strengthen the national policy statement for energy . last weekend , James Robottom , the head of onshore wind at RenewableUK , say that he do not expect much from the Government ' s consultation on planning . he say that obstacle to new onshore wind development would " severely hinder investment in the onshore wind industry and its supply chain due to the high level of risk and uncertainty they create . we be be deny the opportunity for thousand of new job and billion in private investment " . in the meantime , that be cost english family £ 180 per year . it mean damage to the economy , damage to the environment , and high bill for family . be it not time that we get this useless government out of the way so that we can sort it out ? this useless government who have deliver 43 % renewable on to the grid ! I would much rather take our record on renewable than the Labour party ' s any day of the week . the consultation on national policy statement close , as the hon . Gentleman know , on 23 June , and the Government remain on track to present they to Parliament and bring they into effect by the end of 2023 . local authority have a presumption in favour of solar , and quite right , too , but should they not also consider the cumulative effect of solar farm ? Wiltshire be the second large county in England for solar farm . if the new Red Barn project at Kington St Michael be add , it will be one of the large solar farm in Britain . we be cover our good agricultural land with solar farm in county such as Wiltshire . when the forthcoming planning policy guidance be reconsider , will the Minister undertake to include a presumption against solar farm on grade 3a and 3b agricultural land ? food security be incredibly important , and we will , of course , prioritise less productive land for the deployment of solar farm . our reform aim to ensure that infrastructure developer consider , at the outset of their programme , how project can address the legitimate concern of affected community , engage regularly with they throughout the pre - application phase and beyond . engage with statutory consultee early during the pre - application stage will also benefit local community and farmer through high - quality application . Energy security : Gas import from Russia what recent assessment he have make of the impact of end gas import from Russia on energy security . end russian import in April 2022 have show that russian gas belong in the past . our system be well supply last winter by North sea gas and reliable import — a far cry from Labour ' s energy surrender plan , sponsor by just Stop Oil , which would put we back at square one and in the hand of despot such as Putin and his tyrannical regime . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s answer . could he explain what step his Department be take to ensure that no country will ever be able to hold the UK to ransom through our energy supply ? it be about have a balanced energy supply , which mean renewable , nuclear power , and yes , where necessary , oil and gas licence — to do without they put the security of every single person in this country at risk and mean that household bill will go up . sadly , that be exactly the policy of his Majesty ' s official opposition . a recent report by the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit show that , regardless of Ministers ' plan to expand domestic oil and gas production , import of gas will continue to rise significantly unless we tackle demand . new oil and gas licence simply will not deliver energy security as the oil and gas be sell at global price on international market . they will cost the taxpayer dearly while be a disaster for the climate . will the Government finally do what be need by rule out new licence and commit instead to measure that will genuinely make the UK energy secure , include a nationwide street - by - street home insulation programme , unblock onshore wind , and instal new solar on every roof ? we have go from 14 % of our home be insulate under the previous Government to nearly 50 % — it will be 50 % this year — and we have set up an energy taskforce to reduce the usage of energy and make it more efficient . however , the policy of the hon . Lady ' s party , and that of the official Opposition , of import all the oil and gas that we require and not provide new licence be simply insane . it mean that every single family in Britain will be subject to the next tyrant like Putin , and that the carbon use will be double what be take from the North sea . it be bonker policy . Net Zero Target : Population increase what assessment he have make of the potential impact of increase in the population on the ability to meet net zero target . Population growth be take into account when set our decarbonisation goal . specifically , it be account for in our baseline emission projection , which help determine the effort require to meet our carbon target . do my right hon . friend accept that in 2050 , on present Government policy , we will have 25 million more people in this country than there be in 1990 , the base date for carbon dioxide emission ? he obviously accept that a high population lead to high global emission , but can he also say that when it come to climate change , it would be a good idea for this government to concentrate on a net migration policy , rather than net zero ? as my hon . friend know , the Prime Minister be absolutely determined to bring net migration down to sustainable level . I would also point out to he that the UK do not set decarbonisation target per capita , because all country need to reduce emission in absolute term . we be determined to play our part in do that — to move to net zero , but in a pro - growth , pro - business manner . it be not simply about empower future generation , but those that exist . that be why the roll - out of smart metering be important . the late quarterly statistic claim that 57 % of UK household have smart meter , but that mask the fact that only four out of 32 scottish local authority be above 50 % in the roll - out of smart metering , five be below 30 % , and three island council be below 10 % . all those be also the area with the high fuel poverty . as we approach March 2024 , when radio teleswitching will go off , how will we ensure that people have access to smart metering , enable they to get off - peak tariff ? the hon . Gentleman be right , both to enthuse about the importance of smart metering and the benefit it can bring — even more so as we move forward in the come year — and to highlight the importance of ensure , as ever , that something so important be equitably distribute . I , or colleague , would be happy to meet he to discuss how we make sure that the issue he have rightly raise be address . Rooftop Solar Panels what step he be take to increase the use of solar panel on build roof ; and if he will make a statement . the Government be support the installation of rooftop solar in numerous different way : financial incentive , performance standard and the solar taskforce . for year now , I have be try to persuade government of all colour to change building regulation to require all new building to be fit with solar panel . that would have the benefit of secure supply , reduce household bill considerably and help we towards net zero , so why do we not do it ? I assure my hon . friend that I be a great enthusiast for solar panel — I have have they on my home for the past 12 year , and they perform very well . I want to see more people do that . in fact , over that period , we have go from virtually no renewable in our system — 6 . 9 % — to 43 % in the last quarter . I be very keen for that expansion to go far and fast . we need to ensure that it be part of the building code , but we also want to make sure that other form of renewable can be instal , so it be a balance between not be too prescriptive and make sure that we make speedy progress , particularly on all the commercial rooftop in this country . a few week ago , I have the pleasure of visit an innovative housing project in Rumney in my constituency , which have solar panel in nearly all the new building but also ground source heat pump , electric vehicle charge point and battery technology in the house , bring down bill for the resident while contribute to net zero . will the Secretary of State join I in praise Cardiff ' s Labour council and the Welsh Labour Government for the work they have do on this issue , and will he explain what we be do to ensure great manufacture of those technology in this country ? of course , I be delighted that the Barnett formula stretch so far in provide some of the excellent addition to those building . I just want to repeat that no Government have go far and fast in the G7 than this one in introduce renewable and ensure that they now power a very significant part of our grid . we want to go far and fast still , and we will make sure that thing such as building code help with that plan . Net Zero Projects : skill what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the adequacy of workforce skill for deliver net zero project . we recognise that have the right skill within the workforce be critical , which be why we establish the green job delivery group . the Climate Change Committee have express concern that the UK be fall behind on a range of net zero commitment , include on skill . a skilled workforce , alongside new green job , be a key component of the green new deal , but the workforce plan be not due until 2024 . in the light of the urgency of address climate change , will the Government commit to bring that forward to some time later this year ? we be work as quickly as we can on ensure this . the new skill that will be require be really beneficial for the UK economy , so we be keen to work with the green job delivery group and the Department for Education in look at apprenticeship and how we can push this forward as quickly as possible . Clean Energy Technology : private Sector Investment what step he be take to encourage private sector investment in clean energy technology . what step he be take to encourage private sector investment in clean energy technology . our " power up Britain " plan seize opportunity from the transition to a decarbonised energy system . our policy , back by billion of pound of Government funding — but more importantly , leverage in about £ 100 billion of private investment — will support up to 480 , 000 job in 2030 . enfinium be build a new energy - from - waste facility in my constituency , which will process nearly 400 , 000 tonne of waste to generate electricity for more than 95 , 000 home and business each year . will the Minister join I in welcome this investment in renewable energy , and outline how the Government be support energy - from - waste facility across the country ? I thank my hon . friend , and I be delighted to join she in welcome this new investment , which will be a huge asset to her community as well as have positive national implication . energy from waste with combined heat and power be support through pot 1 of the contract for difference scheme — our auction system . we expect to announce the result of the late round in early September , and I hope the House will watch that announcement with great interest . what assessment have the Minister make of the role of a tariff support mechanism to encourage short - term private sector investment in deep geothermal to support level up ? there be no great champion than — or anyone in this House with half the knowledge of this , as far as I can tell — my hon . friend in support the potential of deep geothermal . when the Prime Minister respond to his report , I know he thank my hon . friend for all the work that go into it . I can confirm that geothermal technology that generate electricity be eligible for the contract for difference scheme . we be also support and encourage the development of geothermal heating project through the green heat network fund , which support the development of low - carbon heat network . under the leadership of my hon . friend , I be confident that geothermal have a positive future . private sector business in the Humber be ready and willing to invest £ 15 billion in carbon capture , storage and decarbonisation project . however , this be be put at risk because , of the eight track 1 carbon capture and storage project select , not a single project be approve for the Humber , despite the Humber be the large carbon emitter in the country and the fact that 80 % of the UK ' s license CO2 storage capacity be accessible from the Humber . when will these business get the clarity they need ? when the track 1 expansion process be launch , will both Humber pipeline be approve ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and she be right to be frustrate because of the enormous potential both to decarbonise and to unlock industrial benefit for the area . we be move as quickly as possible . I have already say that the viking project and the scottish cluster be in the favour position , and the team be move as quickly as possible this year to provide more certainty and unlock further investment . private sector investment in clean energy be vital , but do the Minister agree that one reason that the United Kingdom , despite have the high tidal range on planet Earth after Canada , still use so little of it , be a lack of public sector leadership ? area such as Morecambe Bay , which could contribute to tidal energy , bring down people ' s bill and protect we against Putin , be something that we could move forward . will the Minister agree to meet I and other mps around the bay , so that we can bring forward plan to get the most out of our tidal energy ? I be not an expert in the hon . Gentleman ' s history on this topic , but I hope it have be consistently in favour of tidal energy , and therefore different from so many other area of policy . I share his enthusiasm for the potential of tidal energy . that be why we be the world ' s lead nation in the deployment of tidal range , and why tidal power be eligible for the contract for difference scheme . notwithstanding so many issue , I would be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . community Energy Projects what step he plan to take to support the development of community energy project . the Government be support local authority and community energy group to work together to develop project within UK growth funding scheme , such as the UK share prosperity fund . Ofgem also welcome funding application from the sector to the industry voluntary redress scheme . why do the Government remove amendment from the Energy Bill last week that would have support community energy and local energy trading ? as we have outline previously , the Government do not support the amendment that be table in the Lords , and believe that the issue raise should be consider as part of wide market reform . however , we be proactively work with parliamentarian and the community energy sector to discuss whether further support from the Government for the sector be need , and if so , what might be feasible . Prepayment Meters what energy cost support his Department have provide to customer on traditional prepayment meter . the Government have provide support to customer on traditional prepayment meter through the energy bill support scheme and energy price guarantee . I very much welcome the measure that the Government have announce to support those on traditional prepayment meter , but many resident in Southend West , such as those live in Trafford House in Leigh - on - Sea , be on communal heat network . they be still face high price and have no control whatsoever over their heating . what be the Government do to encourage heat supplier to apply for the energy bill discount scheme ahead of the deadline at the end of this month , which will benefit my constituent who have no control over their energy bill ? my hon . friend be a great advocate for all her constituent , and she will be interested to hear that the Government be commit to support domestic heat network customer with their bill . that be why we introduce the energy bill discount scheme heat network support , which aim to ensure that heat network customer do not face disappointingly high bill compare with customer in equivalent household . can the Minister tell we the value of prepayment meter voucher not cash by the 30 June deadline ? what can the Government do to ensure that support reach those people who be eligible to get it ? all hon . member will know how abhorrent we find the use of forced entry to people ' s house over prepayment meter . however , we have work hard and consistently to ensure that all those on prepayment meter be treat fairly and give support . small Modular Nuclear Reactors what step he be take to introduce small modular nuclear reactor into the energy mix . when his Department plan to complete its competitive process for small modular nuclear reactor technology . I be pleased , and indeed proud , to say that great British Nuclear will be hold a competition for small modular reactor , because we want to attract the good design from both domestic and international vendor . the Government ' s ambition be to select the lead technology by autumn , provide co - funding to any viable new technology . our commitment to a nuclear programme and to Great British Nuclear will enable the UK to be on a path to achieve its ambition to become a global leader in nuclear energy and small modular reactor . as member of the Welsh Affairs Committee hear during a visit to the United States in January , small modular reactor should play a significant role in transition , alongside large - scale nuclear project . do the Minister agree that while north - west Wales have excellent scope for large - scale project , part of north - east Wales would be outstanding prospect for an SMR site , as well as capitalise on the region ' s amazing manufacturing and engineering capability to drive that part of the energy mix forward ? the Government recognise the support for nuclear power across north Wales . great British Nuclear will work with the Government on access to potential site for new nuclear project to achieve our long - term ambition . as a first step towards the development of the new national policy statement for nuclear , we will consult later this year on a propose way forward for determine how new nuclear development , include smr , might be locate . the Minister will know that this country have be produce small nuclear reactor for our submarine for more than 50 year . do the Minister understand that while he be dither around with his time - waste international competition , those international competitor be out there in the market get the order and selling , back to the hilt by their own government ? be this go to be yet another great british development create by our scientist , engineer and skilled trade , but allow to slip away by blinker civil servant and weak Ministers who can not make a decision ? Rolls - Royce be a great british company , which be why we previously make up to £ 210 million available from the advanced nuclear fund to Rolls - Royce SMR Ltd to support the development of its small modular reactor design . great British Nuclear will launch the first - stage selection process for small modular reactor , which be expect to attract the good design from domestic and international vendor , which will be great for this country . by the way , we be go three time fast than any comparable country on this project . energy cost : support for Households what plan he have to support household with energy cost in winter 2023 - 24 . the Government be commit to cheap energy for all . last winter , we cover half a typical energy bill through the combined support of the energy price guarantee and the energy bill support scheme since October , with a typical household save around £ 1 , 500 by the end of June . there be a huge gulf between the reality and the practice of the Government . the Public Accounts Committee have warn this Tory Government about their lack of planning on support for consumer with the cost of energy this winter . lack of preparedness seem a serious ailment within this government . give that sense research have find that more than 30 % of disabled people be cut back on their use of medical equipment , when will we get a proper plan from this government , instead of the profiteer off the back of the most vulnerable , as we see from so many energy company ? we be of course make plan , and I do not accept that we be not plan . we be also talk to stakeholder and ensure that we be give the good support we can to all those who will be vulnerable in winter 2023 - 24 . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . next week will mark the 500 - day anniversary since Putin launch his invasion of Ukraine and begin try to blackmail the world on energy . as ever , Britain stand strong in the face of tyranny , and I be pleased to report that from Saturday just past , energy bill be fall by an average of 17 % for household . we be committed to power Britain from Britain , despite some alarming energy surrender plan come from the opposition . the Climate Change Committee ' s report publish last week find that of the policy and consultation that be the responsibility of the Secretary of State ' s Department , no less than 33 be overdue . he can not blame anyone else . will he now own up to the Government ' s appalling failure ? the actual datum argue the opposite way . we have meet all our carbon budget to date . the Climate Change Committee last week say that the chance of reach carbon budget 4 be " slightly increase " . we be confident of meet it , and we have set out our plan for carbon budget 5 and 6 . I have to say that give that this country have the good record in the world among develop nation for get carbon under control , it be surprising to hear the opposition ' s view . our domestic nuclear sector and our military be struggle to recruit and retain enough nuclear engineer . what discussion be the Minister have with the sector and the Department for Education to create a long - term workforce plan to solve the issue ? since day one , the skill challenge that we face have be a top priority for I , which be why my Department be work closely with the Ministry of Defence , the DFE and the sector to tackle they . with the employer - lead Nuclear Skills Strategy Group , we have deploy a joint plan of skill action to support the civil and defence programme , but I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that far . I call the shadow Secretary of State . six day ago , the Climate Change Committee deliver its most scathing assessment in its history on the Government ' s record , say that they be off track on 41 out of 50 key target . it say that we have go " markedly " backwards in the past year , on the Secretary of State ' s watch . who do he blame for this failure ? as have be discuss more than once in these question and answer , we have take this country from have only 7 % renewable energy to over 40 % . we have decarbonise fast than any other G7 nation and we be on track for carbon budget 4 , have already overdelivere on carbon budget 1 , 2 and 3 . base on our record to date , we be do a pretty good job . that answer be total complacency from a Secretary of State who have just be prove to be fail on every major aspect of his agenda . that be why Lord Goldsmith resign . Lord Deben have say he be fail , and the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) have say that we be lose the global race . be not the truth now that even the Tories do not trust the Tories on the climate crisis ? this be one of the problem with not be prepared to follow the datum , which show we overdelivering on the commitment of carbon budget 1 , 2 and 3 , and that we be more likely to meet carbon budget 4 than we be a year ago . if the right hon . Gentleman want to ignore all that and still roll out his pre - write question , that be how we get to his conclusion . the truth be that the Government be deliver on the issue of climate change while protect every single household in the country from Putin ' s tyranny . I be afraid that have already be surrender by the right hon . Gentleman , who subscribe to the Just stop oil approach . order . can I just ask the Secretary of State to please not take advantage ? this be topical . please tell I if you want to pick a member who you do not want to be able to ask their question . will the Minister tell the House what his late assessment be of the full financial cost to the United Kingdom of reach net zero , and , if the UK reach net zero , what difference that would make to global temperature ? we estimate that the net cost exclude air quality and emission - save benefit will be equivalent to about 1 % to 2 % of gdp in 2050 . as my hon . friend know , emission be global , and we all need to play our part . the UK have a part to play in tandem with other , and that be why I will be work with other Ministers at the conference of the party in Dubai . the Climate Change Committee have slam the Government for their failure on energy efficiency , with the number of home help under the energy company obligation have fall by half between 2021 to 2022 and now stand at a tenth of the level under the last Labour Government . instead of the usual complacent nonsense , will the Minister explain why the Government be fail to insulate Britain ' s home and what he will do about it ? the hon . Gentleman be right to be frustrate about progress . but as the Secretary of State say , when the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) , who be chuntere on the Front Bench , be in power , just 14 % of home be decently insulate ; by the end of the year , it will be more than 50 % . we have set up the energy efficiency taskforce because we want to go far and fast . we be determined to do more . we be spend £ 12 . 6 billion over this Parliament and the next , and — order . many business across my constituency , include Lishman ' s butcher and Clip ' n Climb in Ilkley , have kindly contact I about need additional support to help with their energy price . the Government have do a huge amount to support domestic user , but will the Minister outline what more support can be provide to small independent business ? my hon . friend will be interested to hear that the Government provide more than £ 7 . 4 billion of support to business — more than £ 35 million a day — through the energy bill relief scheme last winter . mine water heating be an emerge technology that employ the heat store in former mine to heat building . it be low - carbon and efficient , and it could be a boon for our country , especially in deindustrialise area such as County Durham that experience high level of fuel poverty . what form of support be the Minister offering ? will he meet I to discuss how we can take this forward in the north - east ? I share the hon . Lady ' s enthusiasm . we be take step to support this technology , and I would be delighted to meet she to discuss it far . lot of green renewable energy be generate in Northamptonshire . for the last year for which figure be available , what be the total output , and the breakdown by type ? unfortunately , we do not have public datum by constituency and do not yet have the full datum for 2022 . however , I can tell my hon . friend that in 2021 , north Northamptonshire generate a total of 362 GWh of renewable electricity . the people of Kettering , like their representative , want Kettering to be one of the green constituency in the country . the Secretary of State have signal that his party will finally drop the nonsensical propose hydrogen levy — another welcome government u - turn . will he confirm that it be , in fact , a u - turn ? will he outline exactly how the much - need investment in green hydrogen technology will be pay for without already struggle household be make to foot the bill ? [ r ] the whole House will welcome the hydrogen economy as an important way to store power . it be become increasingly apparent that that power be most likely to be use in heavy industry as well as heavy transport . this Government be commit to hydrogen power , but we be also keen to ensure that it do not impact on people ' s energy bill , just as those bill be start to fall thank to the support that we provide family with this past winter . the contract for difference auction have be very successful in kickstarte the british success story that be offshore wind . however , the mechanism now need adaptation to maximise job creation in place such as Lowestoft and to ensure that we adopt a strategic approach to the provision of enable infrastructure such as port and the grid . I would welcome an update from my right hon . friend on the Government ' s work on this important issue . I could only just hear my hon . friend ' s question , as the shadow Secretary of State make it quite hard to hear . the Government recently complete a call for evidence on this very subject , look at the introduction of non - price factor in the contract for difference scheme so that it value thing other than just cost deployment . my hon . friend , like all member on the Government Front Bench , want the maximum number of job create and retain in this country . Lord Deben have urge the Government to " find the courage to place climate change once again at the heart of its leadership . " do the Minister share concern that the Prime Minister and , therefore , this Government be just too weak to stand up to their Back Benchers and really grasp the opportunity and necessity ? it be this Prime Minister who create the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , and it be this Government who have deliver more than 43 % renewable electricity on to the grid . we will take no lecture from the Labour party on combat climate change . will my hon . friend please outline what his Department be do to look at the import of green hydrogen feedstock into the UK , to increase the scale and speed of the UK industry and help we achieve our 10 GW capacity by 2020 ? I be aware of proposal on the shipping and possible piping of hydrogen and the important part that must play . if we be to decarbonise all of british industry , we will need shipping as well as piping . I will be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss what far we can do . I very much welcome the recent progress on develop carbon capture , usage and storage on Teesside . I hope we will see the final confirmation that it will happen and the work will start . that say , local industrialist and investor be concerned that the Department be not now ask BP to build the CO2 collection pipework as originally plan , mean that it will not go to CF Fertilisers or Kellas or pass by the Alfanar site . could the Minister provide an update , please ? we be move at top speed to drive forward CCUS . we be in a world - lead position . the opportunity be enormous in the Tees , the Humber and area in the north - west as we seek to get that right and embe those industry in this country . the unique geology of Cornwall mean that there be huge potential for geothermal energy . there be a number of project bid for the current allocation round . geothermal energy have a competitive strike price , have lithium as a by - product and make use of mature technology . will the Secretary of State ensure that those benefit be properly factor into any assessment ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right about the opportunity of geothermal . he will be pleased to know that it just receive a potential allocation through the contract for difference round . as he and other hon . friend have point out , geothermal have great potential in this country , and we look forward to support it . community in Padanaram , Forfar , Aberlemno and Stracathro in my constituency have be on the receive end of an extraordinarily flawed consultation by SSEN — scottish and Southern Electricity Networks — on take a 400 kV line from Tealing to Kintore . I welcome the investment , but can the Minister advise on the minimum standard for consultation on capital infrastructure of this nature , and why will Ofgem not mandate that there be a community benefit ? I will , with the hon . Gentleman ' s permission , arrange to write back to he in a more detailed structure , give that the development be actually in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) . unlock access to the grid will unlock significant private sector capital ready to come in for microgeneration of battery storage project . can my hon . friend give I an update on the timing for the Winser review and the Government ' s response to it ? the Government have receive Nick Winser ' s review and it will be publish imminently . follow a debate in Westminster Hall on make heritage building more sustainable , will the Secretary of State undertake to meet his colleague the Minister with responsibility for culture to push for the urgent revision of guideline to allow great flexibility in the siting of solar panel and other renewable installation on heritage building , in order to make they more environmentally sustainable and economically viable ? speak for myself , I would be delighted to have a meeting on that subject . at a time when the cost of generate electricity be fall thank to the increase use of renewable , my constituent do not understand why the price of electricity remain link to the price of gas . I know that the Government be undertake a review of electricity market arrangement . when might they expect to see a change ? my hon . friend be quite right to ask that question . we would all like to see gas set the price of electricity less frequently . that be why we be accelerate the take - up of renewable , which be so pitifully low in quantity when Labour be in power . we need a Conservative Government to keep up progress and low bill right across the country . the Secretary of State outline the progress be make on small modular nuclear reactor . can he provide an estimate of how many there might be within 10 year ? great British Nuclear will be launch later in July . we will also be launch the draw - down selection process for which technology we will invest in and support . I would be delighted to speak to the hon . gentleman in more detail about that progress move forward . I think my constituent , not least those who be part of the Glasgow Community Energy co - operative , will be disappoint with the Minister ' s answer to the right hon . member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) . the Minister be extremely familiar with the clause that form part of the propose community energy Bill . they be not acceptable as amendment to the Energy Bill before this House . will the Government bring forward their own amendment , so that community energy group can have the confidence they need to take forward their project ? as I say , we be work with the sector and parliamentarian to find a way forward to far support community energy project . as part of that , I would be delighted to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss it far . violence in the West Bank ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the violence in the west bank . the accelerate cycle of violence in the west bank risk another round of bloodshed and the Government be do everything possible to urge the de - escalation of the situation . the late operation by the Israel Defence Forces in the Jenin refugee camp in the northern west bank on Monday be the late episode in a conflict that have become more worrying as the year have progress . while the UK firmly support Israel ' s right to defend itself and its citizen against terrorism , we urge the Israel Defence Forces to demonstrate restraint , adhere to the principle of international humanitarian law and prioritise the protection of civilian . while the security situation today remain fragile , the UK welcome israeli and palestinian engagement at meeting in Aqaba on 26 February and Sharm El Sheik on 19 March . we be clear - eyed that those meeting have not be a silver bullet , but they be an open , meaningful channel of communication between senior Israelis and Palestinians . at time of strife , this be important in assist de - escalation and reduce violence . we have consistently engage with both the Israelis and the Palestinians to urge they to de - escalate tension and to support effort towards renew negotiation . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary speak to the israeli Foreign Minister , Eli Cohen , on 26 June — when they discuss the security situation in the west bank — have speak to the palestinian Prime Minister , Mohammad Shtayyeh , on 16 June . I can confirm that the Minister for the Middle East , Lord Ahmad , will be discuss the evolve situation with the israeli ambassador later today , far to discussion in recent day . he also speak to the palestinian Foreign Minister , Riyad al - Maliki , on 5 May . our ambassador in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem regularly speak to both the israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority to urge de - escalation and to make clear our expectation that all side avoid unilateral step that move the party far away from dialogue . let I finally draw the House ' s attention to the statement that the Foreign Secretary make jointly with his canadian and australian counterpart last Friday . the UK oppose Israel ' s announce proposal to expand settlement across the west bank , and we ask Israel to halt and reverse its policy of support settlement expansion . settlement be not the only obstacle to peace , but they be an important one , and our concern about these recent step be clear . the life lose in this wide conflict be tragic . there be an urgent need for all party to avoid further escalation in the west bank and Gaza , now and in the day ahead . the past 24 hour have see a horrifying military assault by the Israel Defence Forces on the overcrowded refugee camp in Jenin . the UN Refugee Agency say that about 15 , 000 people live in less than half a square kilometre in the camp , yet we have all witness on our screen the Israel Defence Forces launch air attack , include attack from drone , and they have send in hundred , if not thousand , of ground troop in the large military action in the west bank for 20 year . news agency be report 10 death of Palestinians , include three child , and 100 Palestinians injure , while the Palestinian Red Crescent say that it have evacuate 3 , 000 people . the UN ' s Vanessa Huguenin have say : " we be alarmed at the scale of air and ground operation that be take place in Jenin " . the World Health Organisation have say : " first responder have be prevent from enter the refugee camp " . meanwhile , the Palestinian Authority leadership have resolve to " immediately petition the UN Security Council to implement Resolution 2334 and the relevant resolution on provide international protection to the palestinian people , stop unilateral measure , and impose sanction on the occupy power . " the UK currently hold the presidency of the UN Security Council and be therefore responsible for guide its response to request make by the Palestinian Authority . may I therefore ask the follow question ? what be the UK Government do in their capacity as President of the UN Security Council ? how have they respond at the UN to the Palestinian Authority ' s call for international protection ? what have the Foreign Office say to its israeli counterpart about the Israel Defence Forces prevent medical staff from access the Jenin refugee camp , or fire tear gas into hospital shelter child and elderly resident ? finally , what step will the Foreign Secretary take to review whether the IDF have make any use of UK arm sell to Israel in this attack ? will he immediately suspend all arm sale , include surveillance technology , and will he ban collaboration between the UK and Israel ' s armed force and military industry as a result of this horrific attack on civilian ? I thank the hon . Lady for bring the urgent question to the House . this be a matter of deep concern to we all . we will continue to urge the Israel Defence Forces to demonstrate restraint in this operation so that all party can try to avoid further escalation in the west bank and Gaza . as I have say , while the UK will always support Israel ' s right to self - defence , the protection of civilian , particularly child , must always be prioritise , and we expect the armed force ' conduct always to be in line with international humanitarian law . we therefore call on Israel to adhere to those principle of necessity and proportionality while defend its legitimate security interest . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . we stand on the precipice of the Gaza crisis of 2023 and the third intifada . yesterday , an israeli military incursion into the Jenin refugee camp result in the death of more than 10 refugee . hundred be injure and , as the hon . member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) say , the ensue gun battle have prevent civilian from get the aid and medical care they need . today , five israeli civilian be kill in a terrorist car ram and a stabbing , and we be in an endless cycle of violence . we need a return to the diplomatic table . Jordan and Egypt have be try to facilitate that and stand ready to continue to do so , but they must see meaningful effort to stand up for the agreement reach at previous meeting , such as the one in Aqaba . I therefore call on the Government to try to secure the following . the Israelis must stop the expansion of illegal settlement ; we be see that continue and it must stop — they agree to do that at Aqaba . we must see Hamas end its terror attack on Israel . they be wrong — they be terror attack — and although we have no influence over Hamas , we must use our voice to make it clear that it must immediately stop . as the UK , can we urge our israeli friend to show restraint ? can we appoint a middle east peace process envoy who can be task with spend their entire time work with our ally around the region to de - escalate the situation ? our voice be unique and will be hear , and we have a role to play in the peace process . finally , will we use our UN Security Council presidency ? through that role , we can shed light on what be take place . I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for her salient and wise comment , as always . may I reiterate that on Friday the Foreign Secretary make a joint statement with the Canadians and Australians to set out very clearly our opposition to Israel ' s announcement of the expansion of settlement across the west bank ? we be ask Israel to halt and reverse that policy of settlement expansion with immediate effect . more widely , of course , we recognise the very real security challenge face Israel and the Palestinian Authority and condemn all terrorist group plan and carry out attack , but we mourn the loss of innocent life . indeed , the injury to civilian and particularly child be deeply concern . we will continue to speak and our colleague be speak to our israeli team today about the urgent need for all party to de - escalate and prevent the further loss of civilian life . we must all be extremely concerned about the situation in the refugee camp in the city of Jenin , as well as the ongoing deteriorate situation in the conflict as a whole . Israel have the right to defend itself against militant group , but that right must be exercise proportionately and in line with international law . I be therefore very concerned that report suggest there be significant civilian casualty in Jenin . I be also aware that statement from the spokesman for the United Nations Secretary - General suggest that this military operation have not be conduct within the parameter of humanitarian law . the Secretary - General be say to be " deeply concerned " about the situation on the ground . likewise , I be extremely concerned about the break news of a suspect car ram in Tel Aviv , where late report suggest that at least five people be injure . can the Minister provide an urgent update on the situation ? we will always condemn act of terrorism , which only make peace hard to achieve . on Jenin , I be concern about report that emergency health team have be prevent from enter Jenin to treat the injured and to help people in general , and that two hospital have be damage . the World Health Organisation have report that three child have recently be kill . I be sure that everyone in the House will agree that it be truly appal that child — palestinian and israeli — continue to be the innocent victim in this conflict . do the Minister agree that all civilian death must be thoroughly and impartially investigate and that there must be meaningful accountability ? let I be clear that the opposition will continue to be strong and consistent advocate of justice , human right and international law in this conflict . we also condemn the unacceptable use of violence against civilian in all circumstance . in our view , there will be a last peace only when there be a negotiate diplomatic settlement to the israeli - palestinian conflict . the only real solution will be a settlement base on two state : a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable and independent palestinian state . we strongly oppose action that make this two - state solution hard to achieve . so my fundamental question be : what of substance be the Minister and the Government do to bring this immediate conflict to an end and to lay the foundation for a two - state solution ? I do not have the late information on the Tel Aviv attack , but I understand that Hamas be claim it as one of theirs . we absolutely condemn Hamas ' s use of indiscriminate violence and attack of this nature . there can never be any justification for such act of violence , and we will continue to call on Hamas and other terrorist group to permanently end their incitement against Israel . importantly , Ministers and our ambassador will continue to work very closely , today and in the day ahead , to urge the de - escalation of the present situation in Jenin . understand that this come in the context of , for year , Israel building settlement that block the route to a settlement of this dispute , and understand that Israel be fail to show restraint , fail to follow international humanitarian law and fail to protect civilian , what be the Government actually go to do ? as I say , the statement that the Foreign Secretary put out with his canadian and australian counterpart last week set out a clear message to the Israelis about stop the settlement expansion . we will continue to work with our friend and ally to make that message clearly hear . I call the SNP spokesperson . violence on all side must be condemn . however , contrary to what the Minister say , illegal settlement be a barrier to peace , yet the UK Government continue to fail to take any meaningful action towards prevent that . this violence represent a serious escalation of tension on the west bank . as we have hear , Palestinians and Israelis have lose their life . what assessment have be make of the potential chain reaction of violence that this could unleash ? it have be confirm that thousand of people have be displace from the camp . what discussion have the Minister have with international colleague on how to minimise the suffering of those refugee — civilian — who have now be displace twice ? this morning , UN aid agency voice alarm at the scale of Israel ' s military operation in Jenin , report that water and energy supply have be damage , so will the UK Government commit to work with partner to provide additional humanitarian funding to restore these vital supply for people there ? the UK ' s position be clear : settlement be illegal under international law and they call into question Israel ' s commitment to the two - state solution . so we have urge Israel to halt that settlement expansion , which be threaten the physical viability of a palestinian state . to the hon . Gentleman ' s point , we be work with our partner the United States , France , Germany and Italy to strongly oppose these unilateral step . I be afraid that I do not have the late information on humanitarian funding , but our team work very closely through the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration and other humanitarian organisation . I would be happy to ask the relevant Minister to update the House later on what the late commitment be . clearly , this morning ' s car ramming be only the most recent of the terrorist attack that have emanate from the city of Jenin . so far , Operation House and Garden have result in the destruction of three lab , hundred of improvise explosive device and thousand of grenade . underneath the mosque , there be two tunnel with hundred of weapon , and 120 people have be arrest . clearly , the terrorist activity be go to be severely limited . behind all this be the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , Hamas and the Jenin battalion . do my right hon . friend agree with I that this be a proportionate attempt to reduce terrorism against the state of Israel ? as I say , while the UK remain absolutely resolute in its commitment to Israel ' s security , and we condemn absolutely the use of indiscriminate force by Hamas and other terrorist group , we call on all party to maintain a proportionate balance , so that we can de - escalate the exist situation and ensure that civilian be not catch up in this any more . with water and electricity service in the Jenin refugee camp damage as a result of the violence , camp resident be unable to move from their home . many be in urgent need of food , drink water and medical support , but the ambulance have be prevent from reach the wounded . will the Secretary of State raise with the israeli authority the issue of access for ambulance and medical team to the Jenin camp ? the FCDO Minister for the middle east , Lord Ahmad , will be listen to the debate and will be able to give an update in the other place later today about his ongoing discussion with israeli counterpart . let we be clear : any loss of innocent civilian life be one too many . but let we also be clear that the Palestinian Authority have lose control over Jenin and it have become a safe haven for terrorist . terror group have fortify the area with ied and last week they fire rocket towards Israel from inside the camp . Iran have also boast about arming , training and fund the palestinian terror group that operate there . do the Minister agree that it be in the interest of both the Palestinians and the Israelis that terror group cease these operation , which only far destabilise the Palestinian Authority and the region , with innocent people die as a consequence ? we recognise the real security concern face Israel and the Palestinian Authority while they try to deal with those terrorist group , and we condemn absolutely terrorist group plan and carry out attack . to my hon . friend ' s point on the loss of innocent life , every loss be one too many and there will also be a serious number of injury to civilian . we continue to be deeply concerned by the cycle of violence in the west bank . the urgent need for all party to de - escalate to prevent that loss of life remain critical . unless and until we acknowledge our own role in this develop tragedy , anything the Minister say at the Dispatch Box be essentially go to be meaningless . the increase in violence by the IDF and the expansion of settlement in the west bank happen because we and other country in the west do nothing to hold Israel to account . so could the Minister tell we now : will she commit to support an International Criminal Court investigation into what be happen there ? will the Government here now set a timetable for the recognition of the palestinian state ? this Government and Members on both side of the House do not waver from the two - state solution that we all wish to see . as I have say , settlement be illegal under international law and we will continue , alongside ally and partner , to make that point clear . as for the ongoing activity today , I hope that Lord Ahmad will be able to pick up on that later today as progress be make with our counterpart in Israel . but hasn ' t our strategic partnership with Israel , announce in this House , afford we any leverage over israeli policy in the west bank ? our strategic relationship with Israel be a strong and long - stand one . we work with Israel in many area , from security to trade . it be an important partner . that do not negate the fact that we want to see a de - escalation of the current situation and to ensure that the loss of civilian life be minimise . I share the distress of other at the loss of civilian life . Islamic Jihad have already claim several of the dead as Islamic Jihad fighter and , as we have hear , the Israelis say that the camp be use as a hub for terrorist operation . do the Minister think any more can be do to prevent terrorist from embed themselves among civilian , particularly in place such as refugee camp ? we recognise the security challenge that be face and will continue to be face , not only by Israel and the Palestinian Authority in this case , but elsewhere in the world , where innocent live in refugee camp be use as a cover for terrorist wish to cause harm . we all have to continue to tackle that not only in the west bank , but around the world . importantly , in this situation , we will all continue to urge de - escalation to reduce the risk of any further civilian casualty or loss of life . this year have see more Palestinians kill than in any other year , more settlement start announce than in any other year , more demolition in East Jerusalem than in any other year and more violence in general . we be on the precipice of another intifada . at the minute , it look to I as though Israel be act with impunity and this be an all - out assault on palestinian life . so what action will the Government undertake — not just conversation — to bring this dreadful escalation in violence to an end ? we be absolutely committed to work with all party on the challenge associate with demolition so that people remain calm and avoid provocation . but we be clear that in all but the most exceptional of circumstance demolition and forced eviction be contrary to international humanitarian law . the practice cause unnecessary suffering to Palestinians and be harmful to effort to promote peace . in particular , we be monitor development at Masafer Yatta closely and we have make our view clear to the israeli Government on that matter . constituent have write to I about their grave concern for the welfare of civilian and health worker in the Jenin camp . they , like I , know that the israeli army enjoy a climate of impunity because the international community never hold Israel to account for its action . Israel continue to breach international law , include the fourth Geneva convention . as we have hear already today , settlement be war crime under the Rome statute . so my question for the Minister be : what specific action will the Government take to ensure that Israel adhere to international law and that its leader be hold accountable for its war crime ? as I say , we have be clear on this . my colleague in the other place will speak with the israeli ambassador later today to ensure that we put forward the UK view that de - escalation be urgently require in this difficult situation and that we continue to tackle the question associate with illegal settlement , which be contrary to humanitarian law . when the Russians have bomb predominantly civilian area , result in the death of civilian , we have rightly condemn it as a war crime . why have the Government not condemn these action , which be result in the loss of civilian life , as a war crime ? have the Government call in the israeli ambassador to remind she in the strong term possible of the legal responsibility that Israel have to protect civilian ? the UK support Israel ' s right to defend itself and its citizen against terrorist activity , but we be clearly urge the IDF to demonstrate restraint in order to prioritise the protection of civilian . as I say , Lord Ahmad will be speak with the israeli ambassador later today . we all condemn attack on civilian , regardless of which community they be from . the action of the IDF in Jenin be indefensible and have result in 2023 be one of the most lethal year for Palestinians . the UK have long claim to support a two - state solution , endorse UN Security Council resolution 2334 and recognise that settlement be illegal under international law . so after yesterday ' s appalling move to block action by citizen and public body to stop illegal occupation and settlement , have UK Government policy change ? as I say , this Government will continue to stress the importance of the adherence to the principle of necessity and proportionality when Israel defend its legitimate security interest , as well as the importance of continue to provide appropriate protection to the palestinian civilian population , particularly child . at around 11 . 30 am yesterday , 17 - year - old Majdi Younis Saud Ararawi sustain a gunshot wound to the chest and Nouruddin Husam Yousef Marshoud , who be just 15 , be shoot in the head by israeli occupation force . their name join a list of more than 30 palestinian child kill by the israeli regime since the beginning of 2023 . the ultimate cause of those senseless killing be Israel ' s brutal and illegal occupation of Palestine , which have go on for over half a century . give that last night the Government vote for legislation ban peaceful mean of protest against this abomination , and give Britain ' s humanitarian and historic responsibility to the palestinian people , what action have the Government take ? the Minister have duck the question so far , but I will give she another chance to answer . what action will the Government take to ensure that Israel adhere to international law and its leader be hold to account ? as I have say , we be engage both with the Israelis and the Palestinians to urge they to de - escalate those tension . Lord Ahmad will be speak to the israeli ambassador later , highlight and demand that under international law access to medical care and staff be allow , so that those who be injure in the Jenin refugee camp be able to receive the medical care that they require . the use of aerial bombardment and armoured assault by thousand of troop in a refugee camp , familiar to the people of Gaza , be now extend to the west bank . alongside settlement expansion , it be part of the annexation of the Occupied Palestinian Territories by Israel ' s far - right government . Occupation be the cause and context of these late war crime . will the Government acknowledge that and respond by recognise the state of Palestine ? as I say , across this House we continue our long - stand position of a two - state solution . we will continue to work with partner across the world to find a solution that allow that to happen . in the meantime , we be deeply trouble by the level of violence and we continue to call on Israel , while defend itself and its citizen , to demonstrate the restraint require to ease the situation in Jenin today . my thought go out to the people affect by the horrific attack on the Jenin refugee camp . we must be clear that this be a violation of international law and that the occupy force , in particular , have a responsibility to end the violence . I will give a clear suggestion of a possible action : will the UK Government send a clear message of condemnation by bring to an end the importation into the UK of good that be produce in those israeli settlement that be deem illegal under international law ? as I say , we will continue to make call on Israel — [ interruption . ] good make in the settlement be not allow to be import , and that continue to be the case . we continue to grow the work that we do on trade with Israel , the Palestinian Authority and the opt , and I know the Department for Business and Trade be focus on that development work . [ Official Report , 5 July 2023 , Vol . 735 , c . 4MC . ] I do not think the Minister understand the power of office . today we have hear comment and some warm word , but we have see no action . the UK currently have the power of hold the presidency of the United Nations Security Council , so will she call the Security Council together to act now on the atrocity that we have see in Jenin ? what other measure will she take to stop further atrocity occur ? as I say , we continue to work on the peaceful two - state solution . later today , Lord Ahmad will provide an update in the other place on our continue activity . this year have already be the deadly for violence in the west bank since 2005 . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of rise israeli violence against palestinian civilian ? I will give she another chance : do she not agree that civilian death should lead to investigation and accountability ? as I say , we continue to be deeply trouble by the high number of palestinian civilian who have be kill and injure , as the hon . Lady highlight . while Israel have a legitimate right to defend itself , it be important that israeli force exercise maximum restraint , especially in the use of live fire , when protect that legitimate security interest . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . peace be a word we often hear in relation to Israel and Palestine , but how can peace be achieve when Palestinians be subject to systematic and deliberate oppression and discrimination by israeli authority ? the people in the Jenin refugee camp have already flee their home , and they have be displace yet again . can the Minister set out what be be do by the international community to help those who have now be displace twice ? will she condemn the denial to access medical care for Palestinians in Jenin ? and will she join I in call out Israel ' s behaviour for what it be ? as state in a report by Amnesty International , Israel be commit the crime of " apartheid against Palestinians . " as I say , Lord Ahmad will be speak to the israeli ambassador later and will be make clear that we want to ensure that medical supply be able to get into refugee camp to provide the care that be need to those who be injure as a result of the violence of the past few day . report from Jenin be shocking , particularly report that medical team be unable to get access to civilian in need . I support what the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , say about have step towards a solution and an ending of israeli settlement . the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs report there have be at least 570 attack by settler against Palestinians in the west bank this year , which be an average of three attack a day . what be the Minister do , in discussion with her counterpart , on tackle israeli settler violence , as well as on the issue face because of new palestinian militant group ? action be need now to de - escalate the situation , as well as look again at the international funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , which be vital to support palestinian refugee . as I say , we condemn settler violence in the strong possible term and we urge the israeli authority to do what they can . the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , publish with Australia and Canada at the end of last week , highlight the very clear demand that the Government of Israel reverse their decision to approve over 5 , 700 new settlement unit in the west bank and change the settlement approval process . we will continue to work with ally to achieve that . the escalation of violence in the west bank over the past year and the killing of innocent civilian , include child in recent day , be devastating . the two - state solution , which many of we hope will bring peace and stability to the region , seem far away than ever . what be the Government actively do to stop the killing of innocent people and to ensure that a two - state settlement be still a diplomatic reality ? as I have say , we continue to work with partner and ally on the two - state solution . indeed , we call on all those catch up in the violence today to show restraint and to de - escalate the situation so that the violence can come to a halt and we can ensure that those casualty be able to receive treatment . my good and hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) be absolutely correct in her remark and I thank she for secure this urgent question . I visit the refugee camp at Jenin in 2012 and see some of the clinic and school ; to say that the condition be grim be an understatement . what we have see over the past day or two be an attack by israeli security force on a refugee camp , use missile against child , parent , the elderly and the vulnerable . this be not about Israel defend itself . even the White House have state that it be tyranny . when will the UK Government intervene not just with word to condemn those action , but with something in practical term to support the palestinian people undergo such appalling oppression ? the UK ' s position on the middle east peace process be clear and we will continue to support a negotiate settlement , which lead to a safe and secure Israel live side by side with a viable and sovereign palestinian state , base on the 1967 border . in the short term , we be call very firmly , as be all partner around the world , on israeli defence force to show the require level of restraint to ensure that the violence cease in Jenin refugee camp as soon as possible . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) for secure this urgent question . it have be report that medical team have be prevent from enter Jenin . will the Minister condemn that now from the Dispatch Box ? will she express to her counterpart that Palestinians must have medical aid , and can she then return to the House to update mps on the medical situation ? as I have say , international humanitarian law require access to be make available for medical team to treat those in need of care , so we be urge Israel to allow that as soon as possible . I know that my colleague , the Minister for the middle east , will be raise that particularly urgently with the israeli ambassador when he speak to she this afternoon . I will ensure that an update be provide by the Department in due course . the last time that we see tension rise like this , we experience a month of hate , with incident of antisemitism rise to an all - time high , and horror trope on the street of London . do the Minister agree that , while discussion be take place to de - escalate the situation , we all have a duty to temper our language to make sure that jewish resident , such as my constituent , do not live in fear of abuse , graffiti , racist convoy and , ultimately , violence . we all have a duty to try to tackle this behaviour on the street when we see it . we all have a duty to ensure that antisemitic voice be not allow to cause distress or violence . we will continue to ensure that those who feel anxious get the support they need . we provide a great deal of support and be very proud of the work that the Home Office do in support of many of our jewish community . this year , we have see a record number of settlement unit approve . the israeli Finance Minister have instruct ministry to prepare for an additional 500 , 000 settler on the west bank . we have see 33 palestinian child kill . while the Government urge restraint and we get the same weak answer time and again from the Dispatch Box , Israel be act with impunity . I think the Minister say it slightly wrong early on , but it seem that she be say that trade with illegal settlement be now deem illegal by the UK Government . be that the case ? let I reiterate again that the UK position on settlement be absolutely clear . those settlement be illegal under international law and , indeed , they call into question that commitment to the two - state solution , to which the UK be commit . we will continue to urge Israel to halt that and ensure that the trade relationship that we have with Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories can progress as they need to . many of my Luton South constituent have be in touch to say how distressed and angry they be about the increase in violence on the west bank . many have set out that the access to supply , clean water and powdered milk for child be at risk , so , beyond conversation , can the Minister confirm that there will be additional support for healthcare and medical organisation on the ground so that they can help civilian ? once my noble Friend Lord Ahmad have have discussion with the israeli ambassador , I will ensure that further information on how we will continue to support UNRWA and other humanitarian group focus in particular on this incident . I be afraid that I do not have more information to hand at the moment . one eye witness in an interview with CNN have compare the impact of the incursion with a natural disaster in term of the destruction of infrastructure , such as road , water system and electricity . what role can the british Government play in help reconstruction to reduce further humanitarian suffering ? be it the policy of the British Government that the state of Israel should pay reparation for damage to civilian infrastructure in the occupy territory as a result of military activity ? as I have say , we have see the violent activity today on our tv and we call on the israeli Defence Forces and the israeli Government to demonstrate the restraint that be require to prioritise the protection of civilian and ensure that we can see both medical support get into the Jenin camp and de - escalation of the violence as soon as possible . I wish to pass on my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) for raise this issue today . I will give the Minister one more chance before we end this urgent question : can she set out with far , far great clarity than she have do so far what action the Government will take as president of the UN Security Council to ensure that Israel adhere to international law and that its leader be hold accountable ? as I set out early this week , the Foreign Secretary speak to the israeli Foreign Minister , Eli Cohen , on 26 June and to palestinian Prime Minister Shtayyeh on 16 June . such conversation be go on day after day . Lord Ahmad will be able to give an update on his conversation later on in the day in the other place . Israel be clearly in breach of international humanitarian law as well as multiple UN Security Council resolution . the Minister have duck the very specific question on the Security Council on multiple occasion . as president of the Security Council , the UK have a particular power to convene the Security Council and , indeed , the responsibility to do so . can the Minister give we a very clearcut answer : will the UK Government convene the Security Council on this issue — yes or no ? as I have say , the Government continue not only to have close discussion with the Israelis to try to ensure a de - escalation of the violence that we be see today , but to work closely with our ally and partner to ensure that we continue to support and give the clear direction of international partner on the question of the two - state solution . I thank the Minister of State for her measured and careful answer to the urgent question . it be important that her interest in this matter be put on the record . will she outline what discussion have take place with our israeli ally to renew peace talk , to allow both state to co - exist beside each other without the tit - for - tat action that have become normalise and yet be truly horrific and heartbreaking for all those who be lose love one in this conflict ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he be right that , when this violence occur , the great tragedy be that civilian be catch up in it , especially where the israeli Defence Forces be legitimately try to defend themselves and , indeed , Palestinians from the terrorist threat . the Foreign Secretary continue to have a strong focus on this and we be work with leader and our ally around the world to try to find a solution . the Minister mention that the Government have urge the Israeli Defence Forces to demonstrate restraint and have urge de - escalation to protect civilian , but action speak louder than word . can the Minister say what it will take for the Government to suspend arm sale to Israel until we can be sure that they be not be use to violate international law and perpetrate war crime and human right abuse ? I would appreciate it if the Minister could give a well - think - out answer to the question , instead of refer to pre - script note in a folder . I will continue to state the fact that these violent activity be ongoing and colleague be in discussion right now with israeli counterpart . I do not wish to disturb those discussion in any way . I be here to update the House on as much as we know . it be an ongoing situation , but I know that when my colleague Lord Ahmad respond to an urgent question later in the day , he will have more information to share in the other place . I have listen carefully to the Minister , but since 2015 the Government have sell £ 500 million - worth of arm to Israel , and UK arm have be implicate in previous atrocity against Palestine . can the Minister say categorically whether any of that military equipment have be use in Israel ' s assault on the Jenin refugee camp ? do not this attack again show why the Government should suspend all arm sale to Israel until it abide by international law ? the Government take our defence export responsibility seriously and we operate some of the most robust export control in the world . I reiterate , as colleague have hear I say before in previous role , that all application for export licence be assess on a case - by - case basis against strict criterion and we will not issue a licence if there be a clear risk that equipment might be use for internal repression . the Government will continue to monitor closely the situation in Israel , Gaza and the west bank and , if extant licence be find to be no long consistent with those criterion , those licence will be revoke . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my dad , God rest his soul , say to I that there be not many lever to tackle injustice , but boycott be one of they . that be why I could not vote for the Government ' s Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill yesterday , which Ministers and lawyer have say would likely place the United Kingdom in breach of international law obligation . the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) — I have inform she that I will be mention she — say in an intervention on the Minister : " the Foreign Office ' s own legal advice state that the Bill could breach UNSC 2334 . how be I be tell repeatedly from the Dispatch Box that that be not the case , when that be what government lawyer be say themselves ? " she say , " please do not repeat that this do not change anything when the Government lawyer themselves say it do . " — [ Official Report , 3 July 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 656 . ] conservative Members seem to have be inform that the Bill could breach international law , while Government Ministers state the opposite . I be minded to believe the hon . Lady , but could you advise I , Madam Deputy Speaker , on what I can do to ensure that the Government place all their legal advice in the Library , so that we can all have a read and discover who be tell the truth ? I thank the hon . Lady for give I notice of her point of order . no , the Chair do not have the power — nor have it ever in the whole of our constitutional development — to require the Government to place any document in the Library , and certainly not legal advice . the hon . Lady , who be well verse in these matter , have rightly use the opportunity of a point of order to put her opinion on the record , and I be sure that it will have be hear by those on the Treasury Bench . as I say , she be well verse in these matter , and she will know it have be the long - stand practice of government of every political persuasion not to publish their legal advice . that be the normal course , and I certainly have no power from the Chair to compel the Government to do otherwise . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . last week in Justice question , the Justice Secretary conflate the conviction rate and the charge rate for sex offender and allege rapist in the UK . every day 300 woman will be rape , and only three of those rape will end in a charge . what can the House do to emphasise to Ministers that conflate the conviction rate with the charge rate in the court be a basic error ? the Secretary of State should know well and not repeat the sloppy practice of mix up the two , especially on the very sensitive question of rape conviction . as Mr Speaker and the Deputy Speakers have say many time from this Chair , the interpretation of statistic be not a matter for the Chair . one person look at statistic and come to one conclusion , while someone else look at those statistic and come to a different conclusion . the hon . Lady have make her point well and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear it . Republic of Somaliland ( Recognition ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require his Majesty ' s Government to recognise formally the Republic of Somaliland ; to make provision in connection with the establishing of diplomatic relation with the Republic of Somaliland ; and for connected purpose . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the fourth of July be often know as independence day for a particular country , but I be not here to talk about the United States — I be here to talk about the republic of Somaliland . on 26 June 1960 , Britain grant independence to the british protectorate of Somaliland . it be in the euphoria of that moment that Somaliland a few day later enter into a union with the old italian trust territory of Somaliland , a union that prove deeply unhappy . while it start in hope and optimism , that union end in tragedy . it see the rise of a brutal military dictatorship base in Mogadishu , whose next step be the persecution and genocide of many Somalilanders . over the follow year , that union see a genocide unfold with the loss of many life — I be talk about not just ten of thousand , but hundred of thousand of life . in the capital city of Somaliland , it see somali air force jet rise to the sky to drop bomb on the people of Hargeisa . some 90 % of the city be completely destroy , and there be destruction in many other city right across Somaliland . that union also see many of the nomadic tribe of Somaliland persecute , with their well — their only source of life , which provide they vital water — be poison . hundred of thousand of people die in that genocide and , sadly , much of the world do not notice or pay attention . the impact be not just on the people kill ; every single family in Somaliland be touch by that violence and many family either be displace within the border of Somaliland or have to flee to neighbouring country such as Ethiopia and Djibouti . we in this country should take pride in the fact that we welcome so many of those Somalilanders to our shore and that they make we their home , as so many Somalilanders have do in the past . it be that connection — a connection that go back long before independence — that tie our two nation together . out of that genocide , out of that civil war , we see the emergence once again of an independent country . in 1991 , Somaliland be able to declare itself free of Somalia . it be able to stand proud and independent , away from the persecution and genocide that it have suffer for so long . Somalilanders have ask the world for recognition for more than 30 year now . they have ask the world to recognise what be there on the horn of Africa . they have listen to country such as Britain , the United States , France and Germany , which have turn to they and say , " we expect certain thing : a democratic process , parliamentary and presidential election , and a judicial process . we expect you to educate your boy and girl . we expect you to be welcome and a safe place for people to visit . " and Somaliland have deliver that , yet it still wait for recognition from country such as Britain , the United States , France , Germany and so many other . that wait be too long . Somaliland be a country do everything that it believe people expect a democratic free country to be do , but it ask for something in return . the people of Somaliland have , over so many decade , be willing to look to Britain as a friend . in fact , when we be in our great need during the second world war , the people of Somaliland join with we in our battle against fascism . they fight side by side with british soldier . when I be in Hargeisa , I visit the Commonwealth war grave cemetery , where I see british name and the name of Somalilanders . blood be spill by both our nation for those common value and interest . we now need to step up as a nation and do something more than just be there . it be time to recognise Somaliland . for too long , we have resist that . we always find excuse for inertia and inaction . now be the time for we to start be brave and reward the people who be do the thing that we as a nation ask they to do . Somaliland do not live in the easy of neighbourhood — it have difficult neighbour — but it be a democratic country that want to educate its boy and girl and have a fair and robust judicial system . those be thing that we need to reward . we need to put they on a pedestal and say , " this be an example that we want other to follow . " I say that if the Government will not take the action that be require , let it be the British House of Commons that lead the way . if the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be deaf , let we show the will to recognise what be a nation : a country that have its own judicial process , election , and every other function that we want in a democratic nation . if the Government be reluctant to take action , let this House do it . let we ensure that we reward those who be do what be need . as we look at Somaliland , we see a country that be develop and that have investment come into it . I thank the british Government for the investment in Berbera port and the highway north to Hargeisa , but by the simple act of recognition , we could transform the life of 5 . 7 million people , make every single one of they more prosperous and enable Somaliland — a good ally of this country — to play a big role on the world stage and a vital role in support the value that we in this House hold dear . Somaliland may seem a far - off place , and I recognise that a nation of 5 . 7 million perhaps do not seem significant to Britain , but it be . it play a pivotal role in Africa . I urge this House to take the action that be require to support the republic of Somaliland and ensure that we deliver for its people , as they have defend what we value so dearly : democracy and freedom . question put and agree to . order , that Sir Gavin Williamson , Mr Clive Betts , Sir Robert Buckland , Dr Lisa Cameron , Alun Cairns , John Spellar , Ian Paisley , Alec Shelbrooke , Paul Blomfield , Alexander Stafford and Kim Johnson present the Bill . Sir Gavin Williamson accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 341 ) . estimate Day [ 4th Allotted Day ] Department for Work and Pensions [ relevant document : Fourth Report of the Work and Pensions Committee , Universal Credit and childcare cost , HC 127 ; Second Report of the Work and Pensions Committee , the cost of Living , HC 129 ; Fourth Report of the Work and Pensions Committee of Session 2019 - 21 , the temporary increase in Universal Credit and Working Tax Credit , HC 1193 ; and Third Report of the Work and Pensions Committee of Session 2019 - 21 , Universal Credit : the wait for a first payment , HC 204 . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Department for Work and Pensions : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 88 , 727 , 809 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 571 , 264 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 89 , 293 , 628 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Guy Opperman . ) I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee to open the debate . I be very grateful to have be grant today ' s debate about DWP spending . I will focus in particular on universal credit , whose roll - out start 10 year ago in 2013 . the DWP be forecast to have , by some considerable margin , the high expenditure of any Government Department , at £ 279 . 3 billion in this financial year , follow by the Department of Health and Social Care , at £ 201 billion . DWP spending be the large by a considerable distance . of course , the DWP forecast be uncertain . almost all its funding count as annually manage expenditure ; it be hard to forecast demand - lead spending . DWP ' s admin spending — departmental expenditure limit — be 27 % low in real term this year than in 2010 - 11 . universal credit spending be forecast to be £ 50 . 8 billion this financial year , which be £ 8 . 8 billion high than forecast in these estimate last year , reflect the recent much - need uprating and a high case load . in February , 4 . 5 million household be receive universal credit payment . a key argument in the business case for universal credit be the prospect of reduce fraud and error . nearly a quarter of the £ 34 billion net present value gain expect over 10 year from introduce universal credit be due to come from low fraud and error . in fact , fraud and error have be much bad than they be for legacy benefit . the Department ' s statistic show that the universal credit overpayment rate decrease , but from an astronomical 14 . 7 % in May 2021 to 12 . 8 % last year . I know that the Department be set out to address that problem , and that it have obtain resource from the Treasury to do so . underpayment be at their high - ever record rate last year , at 1 . 6 % . I hope the Minister will be able to tell we about plan for tackle those problem . an additional reason that it be so important to get decision right at the moment be that universal credit be a passport to cost of live support payment . there be a strong case for merge the various benefit into universal credit , and the success of the system in get urgently need support out effectively during the pandemic be very important and very impressive . however , there be some big problem — above all , the problem of the five - week wait between apply for the benefit and receive the first payment . with legacy benefit , the first payment would usually arrive a week and a half or so after apply . with universal credit , have spend hundred of million of pound on what we be always assure be agile technology , the same thing now take five week . that be a fundamental and unnecessary flaw ; the security be absent from social security . in January 2021 , the Government reject the Select Committee ' s recommendation to eliminate the wait and instead pay all first - time claimant of universal credit a starter payment equivalent to three week of the standard allowance , just to tide people over . the Government response point out that claimant can access advance , but of course , those be loan . repayment reduce the already low monthly award , and repay advance be a major driver of the explosive growth in food bank demand that we have see . our colleague in the other place , those on the Lords Economic Affairs Committee — with its Conservative Chair — succinctly highlight the consequence of the five - week wait in July last year : " the five - week wait for the first payment … drive many people into rent arrear , reliance on foodbank and debt . " as such , I ask the Minister once again whether the Government will reconsider our recommendation , or whether we have to wait for a different government for that fundamental flaw to be address . I be very pleased to say that one area in which the Government have listen to the Committee be reimbursement of childcare cost for people claim universal credit . I warmly welcome the lifting of the cap and up - front payment for childcare announce in the Budget , and I hope that our future report will have comparable level of success . those change will support people to be in work in future . last week , the Child Poverty Action Group publish a fascinating report call " you reap what you code " , highlight area where the universal credit computer system do not deliver what it should . it give the example that legislation and guidance allow some group to submit a universal credit claim up to a month in advance , but the system do not allow that , nor be there an adequate workaround outside the digital system . as such , some care leaver and prisoner expect release can miss out on an entitlement that they be due . for all its success in the pandemic — I be unstinting in my recognition of that success — the rigidity of the digital system be a problem . can the Minister tell we whether a fix be plan for that problem of early claim , which the Child Poverty Action Group highlight last week ? do the level of benefit meet need in the way it be suppose to ? do benefit represent value for the taxpayer ? the Committee be conduct an important inquiry into benefit level in the UK , and will report in the first half of next year . benefit level be very low . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Trussell Trust tell the Committee that " the basic rate of Universal Credit — its standard allowance ( or equivalent in previous system ) — be now at its low level in real term in almost 40 year ( CPI - adjust ) and its low ever level as a proportion of average earning . " they estimate from pretty careful research that a single adult need £ 120 per week to cover essential : food , utility , vital household item and travel . that be exclude rent and council tax . universal credit ' s standard allowance be £ 85 per week for a single adult over 25 . that be a shortfall of at least £ 35 per week , and deduction — for advance payment , for example — often pull actual support well below the headline rate . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Trussell Trust call for an essential guarantee . they make the point — which have be suggest this week in the press — that we might get a below - inflation uprating of benefit next year , make those problem even bad . I would be grateful if the Minister give an assurance on that front , because that would be very bad news indeed . do the Chair of the Select Committee agree that the Government need to resist the temptation to try to plug the gap with one - off payment ? they should actually look at the wide , more structural problem that they have with the social security system , rather than just try to plug gap when the system be fall apart at the seam . the hon . Gentleman make an important point , and I very much value his contribution to the work of the Select Committee . he be quite right , and I hope that we will be able to look at some of those structural issue over the course of the inquiry . if universal credit do meet basic need , other demand — include on food bank — would decrease . when the £ 20 a week uplift to universal credit be introduce , there be a significant drop in food bank use ; when that uplift be remove , food bank use go straight back up again . universal credit be intend to make work pay , but how can it achieve that aim if people do not have the mean to pay a bus fare , for example ? in evidence to the Committee , the Trussell Trust , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Public Law Project all highlight not be able to buy public transport ticket as a significant barrier to work . as far as we can tell , the Government have make no assessment at all of whether benefit level be adequate . if I be wrong about that , I would very much welcome the Minister tell we , but there be certainly no evidence of such an assessment ever have be make . I hope the Department will look very carefully at the finding of our report when they be publish in due course . one other point be highlight in a briefing for this debate prepare by the charity Barnardo ' s . that charity describe the two - child limit as the single big policy driver of child poverty in the UK , and say that end it would be the most cost - effective way of reduce child poverty , lift a quarter of a million child out of poverty and ease the poverty of a further 850 , 000 child . the cost of do so would be £ 1 . 3 billion per year . I must say that I be puzzle about the justification for the two - child limit : it presumably reflect a belief that parent should not have more than two child , but as far as I understand it , that be not the Government ' s view . indeed , Government Members be understandably start to worry about our fall birth rate , so why do we refuse to provide support for child beyond the first two ? be it not time to just scrap that limit , which do not seem to make any sense ? another reason for high DWP expenditure this year be the continuation of cost of live support . expenditure be forecast to increase by just over £ 2 billion this year , due to high payment — £ 900 in this financial year , compare with £ 650 last year — and high take - up . those payment have be crucial , but they do not fully meet need , particularly the £ 150 disability support payment . last month , Maddy Rose of Mencap tell the Select Committee that the payment be " clearly not commensurate " with the extra cost that those eligible incur , and we have hear other strong evidence to the Committee along those line . Helen Barnard of the Trussell Trust tell we last month that the cost of live payment " have certainly help the family that have get it , but of course , it be a flat payment . it be not calibrate for the number of people you be try to feed , so it have clearly go less far if you be a family with child than if you be a single person or a couple . " that be one of the reason why the Trussell Trust datum show a fast rise in food bank demand among family with child than among family without . the lump sum nature of the payment be problematic . Citizens Advice , speak for many , tell the Committee that increment to universal credit would be well than one - off payment . our colleague on the Treasury Committee call on the Government last December to provide monthly payment over a six - month period to give more household support at the time of their great need and reduce the severity of the disincentive to work . the Government reject that proposal , essentially due to the limitation of the IT system , but as we know from the pandemic , monthly universal credit can be increase overnight . the need to meet a specific qualifying period for each payment window have lead to what evidence to the Committee have describe as " a cliff edge where receive a nil UC award one month — maybe due to a sanction or a high salary due to backpay or a bonus — cause recipient to become ineligible for the entire cost of live support payment in that qualification period . " I be look forward to discuss cost of live support far with the Minister responsible for social mobility , youth and progression — the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) — at the Committee tomorrow morning . a very important aim in achieve effective spending be transparency over how the money be be spend and what be be achieve . the Department have have a very poor record in recent year , so I warmly welcome sign of a new commitment to transparency since the appointment of the new Secretary of State . keep thing hide , which have be the Department ' s practice , have the short - term advantage for Ministers of avoid have to answer sometimes awkward question , but over the medium and long term , people depend on the Department form the impression that it be conspire against they . the result be terrible mistrust , cause the Department very serious problem over time — for example , the very serious lack of confidence in the DWP among disabled people at the moment . it do not have to be like that , but change thing require deliberate effort on the Department ' s behalf . none of the recently introduce employment support initiative have regular performance report on introduction . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s announcement of six - monthly performance report for the restart scheme . that be one of the sign of welcome change in the Department ' s approach , but it should be the norm and part of the arrangement build in at the outset , not something that have to be drag from the Department kicking and scream subsequently . great openness could deliver a wholly different relationship between the Department and the people depend on its service , with the Department see to be work with those it serve , rather than conspire against they . an interesting suggestion in the Child Poverty Action Group report I mention early , " you reap what you code " , be that the source code for the universal credit computer system should be publish . there would no doubt be some security concern about do that , but could not a small team — with expert from disability group , Citizens advice and software expert — be charge with review that software and propose improvement , perhaps in an annual report , a little bit along the line of what the Social Security Advisory Committee do at the moment ? let I briefly say a word about a different aspect of the Committee ' s work . we have be worry by the cut to the funding of the Health and Safety Executive , and one result have be drastically few inspection of workplace asbestos . we publish a report on this last year , and call in particular for two thing — a target to remove all workplace asbestos within 40 year together with a plan to deliver it , and a central digital register of all workplace asbestos and of its condition . the Government reject those recommendation , although I do welcome the agreement of the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Mid Sussex , to meet a group of we , together with three industry group and the Health and Safety Executive , to discuss far the idea for a register . that meeting will take place later this month . I very warmly welcome the launch of the campaign by the Sunday Times at the weekend draw attention to the continue scale of the tragedy be inflict by asbestos even now , a quarter of a century after its use be ban . it be still the big source of workplace - relate death . the Sunday Times campaign headline in particular our two recommendation , and I do hope that Ministers will now recognise the need to act . I welcome the fact that the Sunday Times will be run this campaign on a consistent basis . I again thank the Backbench Business Committee for recommend today ' s debate . I would be very interested to hear from the Minister specifically how minister be assess whether the different cost of live support payment meet need and whether they be reach the right people , and also how and when Ministers will decide whether payment along these line will be need next year . I look forward to the debate we be about to have . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) . this be an opportunity for we to scrutinise the spending of the DWP as a whole , and I think it be important to reflect , as the Chair do , on the amount of money that we be talk about . spend on pensioner benefit equate to £ 134 . 8 billion and spend on universal credit and equivalent benefit equate to £ 82 . 8 billion , and that be before we look at disability and carer benefit , housing benefit , incapacity benefit and the one - off cost of living payment . we be talk about a significant amount of money , but we be not just talk about it in the whole or in the round . I be sure that all of we here , as constituency MPs , know that casework associate with the DWP take up a significant proportion of our casework team ' time . frankly , that be usually because of error in the system . we know that every constituent ' s circumstance be unique , but the theme be the same and the consequence for people ' s day - to - day life and living circumstance can be significant . I will highlight a survey carry out by the WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality — campaign that report that nearly one in three woman who have be impact by change to the state pension have fall into debt in the last six month . that be people ' s day - to - day life . give the amount of money spend on the DWP , I think we all , on a cross - party basis , would want the money that be spend to be use effectively and efficiently . I want to use my time this afternoon to highlight some of the inefficiency in the system and seek update from the Minister on point that I hope he will address in his concluding remark . on the state pension , it be important that we recognise that those who be most reliant on the state pension be those who be least able to work for long . I want to highlight the current LEAP — legal entitlement and administrative practice — correction exercise for underpayment of the state pension , and to ask the Minister to confirm whether the Government be still on track to complete those correction by the end of 2024 . in February 2023 , they have pay out only £ 200 million of the target of £ 1 . 5 billion . I also want to highlight the uptake of pension credit . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have advise that there be a policy proposal on the table look at combine the housing allowance and pension credit system . it believe that that would increase uptake of pension credit , which I know the Pensions Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) — have be work very hard to do . if that be the case , why be it potentially be push back to 2028 ? home responsibilitie protection error be discover last year and mention in the DWP ' s annual report . when people have accrue HRP under the old state pension , there be error in convert it to national insurance credit in the move to the new system , and that leave people with incomplete record and underpayment . when I say people , it be generally woman . we be still wait for the report to set out the scale of the problem now and how the DWP plan to fix it . I would be grateful if the Minister mention when that correction exercise will start . I urge that it start in parallel with the current correction exercise rather than be delay until after the current exercise be finish . again , a lot of these issue tend to be for woman . it feel to I that the way system be set up sometimes mean that they do not recognise the situation of woman who have be in the workplace , the decision they make for family and other reason , and their caring responsibility . I want to mention the miss national insurance credit for people who receive universal credit . the Minister confirm to I in a letter in March that the automatic system for update the record do not work because the format of the UC datum send to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs do not work with its system , so that be suspend . this have mean that NI record be be manually update , with error be make as a result . I think this tie in with the Chair of the Select Committee ' s comment about IT and the problem that legacy system sometimes have . we all remember that the £ 20 uplift in universal credit be never see by those on legacy benefit , and the initial reason give for that be that the IT system could not cope , and that be never address . do the Minister think that all those correction to NI record will be make by the end of 2023 - 24 , and may we have an update on the number of pensioner who be still miss out on their full entitlement ? if we want work to work , and to work effectively , we must acknowledge that we need to do more on pension . for I , a startling statistic be the fact that most people be not in work a year before their pension age . for a variety of reason people be not work , and they be therefore wait for their state pension . recent DWP reporting put the gender pension gap for private pension at a staggering 35 % . do the Government have an estimate of the gender pay gap if they include people who have no private pension entitlement at all ? I suspect that if they have not be include , the gap will be somewhat large . will the Government make it a departmental statutory objective to close the gender pension gap ? that bring we back to woman , because that change portfolio of career that woman potentially experience will increasingly be the case for many people . I think about my own background before I come to this place . increasingly , people do not stay in one organisation for 30 - plus year and then draw down their pension from that organisation ; they instead do a variety of different job in different place . as a result , the pension dashboard that be introduce by the Pension Schemes Act 2021 become even more critical so that people can keep track . again , I would be grateful for an update from the Minister on that roll - out . let I return to benefit and the insufficiency of income . a number of we be present at the statement on the disability cost of live payment , and there be a general acknowledgement , certainly on this side of the House , that insufficiency of income be at the root of that . DWP datum show that in 2021 one in six people be in relative poverty , and one in five after account for housing cost , while 13 % be in absolute poverty and 17 % after housing cost . the Resolution Foundation estimate that that figure will rise in 2023 - 24 to 18 . 4 % after housing cost . keep people in poverty have negative outcome . when people be financially insecure , they be more likely to have health or mental health problem , and more likely to struggle to get into work — it become a self - fulfil prophecy . I echo the comment of the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee on the uprating of benefit . the previous uprating , which be welcome , be simply to keep up with inflation . if the problem be insufficiency of income , not commit to do that go forward just make the problem bad . I co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on end the need for food bank , and our " cash or food ? " inquiry deal specifically with how we well support people and ensure a decrease in the use of food bank . in my constituency — indeed , this be something the Scottish Affairs Committee be look at — the rural poverty premium be real . the Chair of the Committee mention transport cost , and go from East Neuk in my constituency to the jobcentre in Levan cost £ 9 on the bus . when talk about the small amount of money that constitute universal credit , we can quickly see where that money go , and that be before someone potentially have to go shop in premium local shop as oppose to Aldi and Lidl . money go very quickly . the hon . Lady make a good point about benefit and the key role that they play in create a wealthy society . she may or may not know that there be an interesting TED talk call " where in the world be it easy to get rich ? " the answer be : in Norway , Sweden and Denmark , where they have identify that one of the key aspect of create a wealthy society be a good benefit system that enable worker to go around with some security , and society and child to have security as well . if we want to have millionaire and billionaire , we need a very good benefit system . I thank the hon . gentleman for that contribution . absolutely ; I think we all look to the scandinavian country to see how they promote quality of life and support individual , and we must think about how we can well support that . indeed , the public generally tend to support that . they be comfortable potentially pay more in tax to have well service , and that debate must continue to be have . I be pleased that my carer ' s leave private Member ' s Bill be now the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 , and it will for the first time give employment right to unpaid carer . one of the huge challenge when I be engage with unpaid carer in my constituency — I have say this in the Chamber before — be the number of people who have leave work because of their caring responsibility , and therefore they would not benefit from provision in the Act . sadly , it be a fact that too many unpaid carer and the people they care for be live in poverty . carer UK estimate that unpaid carer be provide care worth £ 162 billion a year , and when we contrast that with the cost of the Department through the estimate debate , we can see the comparator . without unpaid carer , our economy would be severely strained . some 45 % of unpaid carer be estimate to be unable to afford their monthly expense , and two third of those who receive carer ' s allowance or the universal credit carer element say that they can not meet their monthly expense . the level of carer ' s allowance need to be increase urgently — I have call for that before , and I will continue to do so . we must also think about how we taper carer ' s allowance . care never stop , and we should not have people fall off a cliff edge in relation to hour work . frankly , that be a disincentive for people go into work , because if they have the choice between work or care for their love one , they will choose their love one every time . for young carer , I be not just concerned about their education ; I be also concerned that we will never get they into the workplace if we do not provide they with the support to get there . I be conscious that some unpaid carer decide to step out of the workplace for some time and then their caring responsibility end , potentially through the loss of a love one . what be we do to support unpaid carer , who might have be out of the workplace for some time , to get back into work ? there be similarity with issue such as parental leave and other decision , and we should be look at that body of people , who frankly be some of the good multitasker I know , give their skillset , and how we can help they into work . finally — this be an issue that other member will be hugely aware of — child benefit threshold be become an increase problem , particularly give some of our frozen level of income tax . it be a tick timebomb . family do not apply for child benefit if they know that they will not be entitle to it , but because those level have never change , that be increasingly an issue for stay - at - home parent — again , those be usually woman ; there ' s a theme — who then miss out on accrue national insurance credit for the state pension . they do not realise that if they do not apply for child benefit payment , even to be tell that they do not apply , they can not pick up the national insurance credit , and that can be a real issue . will the Minister consider review the scheme for accrue credit for stay - at - home parent , or at the very least do an awareness - raise campaign , as have be do for pension credit and other thing ? this be a good opportunity , whether a Member have an interest via the Committee , or otherwise , but as a constituency MP I want , and my casework team want , the DWP to be work as effectively as possible , so that those who need help get it , and those who can get into work be support to do so . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) . I find myself resonate with her comment on carer and the lack of support that exist in so many different way , but particularly through the social security system , and the billion — multiple billion — that be provide in equivalent support to this country that we sadly do not adequately recognise . I also pay tribute to the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , for all that he do in the plethora of different inquiry that the Committee have hold over the past few year . I be particularly pleased about the work that we be do on the adequacy , or inadequacy , of the social security system , and the important thing that will reveal when it be publish early next year . this debate be about DWP spending . associate with that be what it mean for the priority of the Department and , in particular , the Government ' s priority for social security as a whole . I will focus my remark on the fall in support for working - age adult . we need to recognise that particular group and the impact that fall be have on so many different family across the country . we have have two major welfare reform act , in 2012 and 2016 . I will refer to the latter in a moment , but the cumulative impact of those up to the pandemic be the equivalent of a 17 % reduction in working - age support , which in cash term be about £ 33 billion . that be only slightly offset by the temporary increase in universal credit during the pandemic . although I welcome the uprating last year , and I support what my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham say about that , it do not at all make up for the last 10 or 11 year of significant cut . that have have an impact on relative poverty across the UK . just under one in three child in the UK be grow up in poverty , and in my constituency the figure be nearly one in two . we also know that just under two third of child grow up in poverty live in family where at least one adult be work . the implication of these cut for those child be not insignificant . we now have the high ever level of in - work poverty . what on earth do that say about this country ? it be shocking . many people who know I will know how strongly I feel about the impact of these cut on disabled people . one in three disabled people be live in poverty , which be twice the rate for non - disabled people . it be totally unacceptable . these be the most vulnerable people in our society , and we be fail to recognise their need and support they . I know that the Minister will come back and say , " actually , poverty have reduce . " the Joseph Rowntree Foundation reflect that in its annual report , which come out at the beginning of the year . yes , poverty level have go down , but that reflect the fact that during the pandemic we see reduction in overall income , and with relative poverty that be the position . importantly , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation say that it be also about different choice that the Government make at the time . as much as we be talk about now , we must recognise that that £ 20 a week of additional support make a difference to those poverty level . poverty be not inevitable ; it be about political choice . again , I hope we can reflect on that . when I speak to my constituent in Oldham East and Saddleworth , and indeed people across the country , they tell I that they feel our current system no long provide the safety net that it be set up to provide in the post - war settlement with the british people , and they be right ; it be inadequate . follow on from their first - hand experience during the pandemic , polling show that two third of Britons think that universal credit be too low . not only have the adequacy of the UK ' s social security system diminish over time — in term of average weekly income , it be approximately half of what be provide after world war two — but it be also low than most of our european neighbour , with datum from 2018 show that our social security spending as a percentage of gdp be below EU27 and OECD average . we must never forget that the post - war Labour Government create the NHS and the welfare state . as we mark the remarkable achievement of our NHS with its 75th anniversary tomorrow , we must reflect on the principle of universality and access for all , which I would like to see reflect in our social security system , too . like our NHS , our social security system should be there for all of we in our time of need , whether that be a result of illness or disability , of be unable to work anymore because we have reach retirement age , or for any other reason . it should provide basic financial support and should be value for the safety net it provide . that be not the case now , and that be why I be advocate for a new social contract that define the future of our social security system . a good starting point would be the essential guarantee that my right hon . friend talk about . that have be propose by the Trussell Trust and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , but a wide coalition of charity have advocate for it . they find that 90 % of low - income household on universal credit be go without essential such as food , electricity and clothe . that inadequacy be the main driver of food bank need , with almost 1 . 3 million food parcel distribute between April and September 2022 . that be just unacceptable in the fifth rich country in the world . an essential guarantee would ensure that the universal credit standard allowance meet a level that provide basic security for a family ' s need . the charity calculate that at £ 120 a week for a single person and £ 200 a week for a couple . the guarantee would bring we in line with our european neighbour and provide a safety net in the same vein as our NHS . it would also reduce the poverty that too many be experience and which have a lifelong impact on child . some member will know that I chair the all - party parliamentary group on health in all policy and have do so for a number of year . in 2020 , just before the pandemic , we commission a review of the Welfare Reform and Work Act 2016 to analyse the impact it be have on child and disabled people . anybody watch or listening be welcome to have a look at that on my website . one of the big and most worrying figure that we find be that : " each 1 % increase in child poverty be significantly associate with an extra 5 . 8 infant death per 100 000 live birth … about a third of the increase in infant mortality between 2014 and 2017 can be attribute to rise child poverty " . that be publish in one of the peer - review medical journal . understand the impact that that have have on so many family be devastating . it be yet further evidence that far more need to be do to provide an essential guarantee . the flipside of that be that we have one of the high tax burden in 40 year , but I be hearten to see member of Patriotic Millionaires — they be all multi - millionaire — come out and say , " we recognise the impact that not have a wealth tax on we be have on the fabric of our society . we do not want our child grow up in a society where there be not the fairness that we grow up with in our country . " it have come up with the proposal of a wealth tax that would fund the essential guarantee . for I , that group espouse what we as a nation can be . in contrast — this take I back to what other hon . member have say — there have be a rather nasty element in the medium . when we look at DWP spending , we must remember that half of it , rightly , go on the state pension ; that be the big slice of the spending . the next big be on housing benefit . we need to recognise that . nobody would criticise DWP spending on our pensioner . I urge responsible journalist to recognise that we should not criticise social security spending on people who be disabled or not able to work because of illness . we must be well than that . as I conclude , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I do promise that I would be very brief , I repeat that poverty — order . for clarification , I be not put the hon . Lady under any pressure . as far as I be concern , she have all the time in the world . well , that be an offer that I definitely will refuse this time . as I say , poverty and inequality be not inevitable — they be political choice — and I believe that , like our NHS , our social security system should be there for all of we in our time of need . I call the SNP spokesman . may I start , as other have , by send my thank to the Chair of our Select Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , for secure today ' s debate and for set the scene so well ? the debate take place against the backdrop of an ongoing Westminster - make cost of living crisis that affect the livelihood and life of people across Scotland and these island . the harsh , yet inescapable reality be that people in Scotland can no long afford to pay the price for the economic mismanagement of a Westminster Government they do not elect . indeed , we have not vote by majority for the Conservatives since 1955 . in May , CPI be still at 8 . 7 % . price be still soar and the cost of live under Westminster control be still far too high for many family who be already struggle to get by after 13 long , brutal year of Tory cut , Brexit and economic mismanagement . we know that inflation disproportionately impact low - income group such as single parent , who spend a relatively high proportion of their income on food and fuel . indeed , new Trussell Trust research show that family be go hungry as a result of the Westminster - make cost of living crisis , with one in seven people in the UK face hunger in the last year due to a lack of money . minister often tell we that the reason for food bank usage be complex . it be not complex — it be because people do not have enough money . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s late cost of live tracker find that 5 . 7 million low - income household be have to cut down or skip meal because they do not have enough money for food , while the number go without item such as food , heating and basic toiletry have remain at about 7 million for more than a year — all of that in the sixth large economy in the world . the average interest rate for a two - year fix - term mortgage have rise to 6 % . the Resolution Foundation have say that average annual mortgage repayment be set to rise by £ 2 , 900 for those renew next year . in short , that be the eye - water Westminster mortgage premium that scot be pay for the pleasure of a Tory Government they do not elect . what be more , analysis by the consumer group which ? show that the price of popular family meal have rise by 27 % in the last year . the irish and french government have reach agreement with major supermarket retailer to reduce food price , while the Tory Government be sit on their hand . it be those low - income family I represent in Parkhead , Shettleston and Baillieston who be pay the price for the sheer intransigence of Conservative Ministers here in London . even at this late hour in the cost of living crisis , I urge the British Government to use all the power at their disposal to tackle that crisis on the scale that be require . that do mean that they will have to be bold and radical , and the same be true of the pro - Brexit Labour party . I turn specifically to universal credit , which be obviously the main focus of the debate . in short , the british Government ' s continual refusal to fix the extensive and know - about problem with universal credit be unacceptable , and it be without doubt subject some of the most vulnerable people in our community to additional and unnecessary hardship . with the three main party in this place now agree on the principle of universal credit , there be an opportunity , so we should put our head together to look at what we can do to fix it . I will start with the level of universal credit . JRF research show that support have erode over decade and that the basic rate of universal credit be now at its low level as a proportion of average earning . indeed , the JRF ' s late cost of live tracker warn that about nine in 10 low - income household on UC have go without at least one essential for the third survey in over a year . for most people refer to food bank in the Trussell Trust network , the design and delivery of the social security system be major contributor to their inability to afford the essential . the majority of people — indeed , some 89 % — refer to food bank in the Trussell Trust network receive a means - test benefit such as universal credit , but that do not provide they with enough to cover the cost of the essential . as the right hon . member for East Ham say , JRF and the Trussell Trust be together call on Ministers to implement that essential guarantee to ensure that , at a minimum , the basic rate of universal credit cover life ' s essential and that support can never be pull below that level . be not another problem the insane part of the system where people pay back money because of advance and the level of deduction — more than £ 60 a month be be deduct from my hon . friend ' s constituent ' and my constituent ' universal credit ? that envelop that cycle of poverty . I be grateful to my hon . friend for put that point on the record . he be my predecessor on the Select Committee and follow this work well . I will come to debt and deduction , because that be one of the big issue raise in the evidence that the Select Committee receive , certainly by the stakeholder that we meet . he be spot - on to draw attention to the £ 60 from each of our constituent that be pay back to the government when it could be spend in our local economy . new CPAG research find that the digital aspect of universal credit routinely lead to wrong amount be award to claimant — often those who be most vulnerable — and to breach of rule of law principle . that be why I have repeatedly call on the Government to reverse their cut to universal credit and work tax credit . let we not forget that this be the big overnight cut to welfare in 70 year , inflict hardship on people who be already struggle . to have do that as we come out of the tooth of the pandemic be particularly cruel . rather than offer one - off payment to shore up struggle family ' income , the DWP should reverse the damaging policy that be impact on the most vulnerable people . it should reinstate the UC uplift at £ 25 per week and , of course , extend it to legacy benefit . let we not forget the 2 . 5 million disabled people , so ably advocate for by the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , who be cruelly leave behind without that uplift during the pandemic . the Government also need to remove the benefit cap and the two - child limit with its associate rape clause . they also need to halt the punitive sanction regime so that all household be lift out of poverty now and in future . I turn to the benefit cap . as the Poverty Alliance point out , the cap ' s design mean that those who require the high level of support from the benefit system be the most likely to be affect . that be simply unjust . base on the late departmental figure , 114 , 000 UK household have have their benefit cap and 86 % of those be family with child . the benefit cap disproportionately impact lone - parent family , the majority of whom be woman — a point make by the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) — as well as large and ethnic minority family . the same be true of the two - child limit . thousand of family with child will be push into poverty because Ministers on the Treasury Bench refuse to scrap the two - child limit on child tax credit and universal credit . a new London School of Economics study find that the policy ' s impoverishment of large low - income household have help few parent get a job . instead , its main function have be to push family far into poverty and to damage their mental health . I wonder why minister be so furled to the two - child limit . the vast majority of they be actually quite embarrassed by it , and that be before we get to the associated rape clause , or as the Government like to call it , the " non - consensual sex exemption " . when this government go around lecture people about the value of global Britain , I be pretty sure they do not tell folk that the state will only support the first two child in the family , but if someone can prove that their child be bear as a result of rape , that be okay . indicate dissent . the parliamentary Private Secretary be shake his head at that , but probably because he be so embarrassed . the five - week wait for a first payment be needlessly push people into hardship . the issue could easily be fix by implement the Scottish National party ' s proposal to turn advance payment loan into non - repayable grant after the claimant have be deem eligible . the Trussell Trust , which I reference early , have consistently show that the five - week wait for universal credit be a key driver in the need for food bank , both during those five week and after the payment have start . I want to draw attention to the young parent penalty in UC , which Ministers must end . it deny single parent under the age of 25 the same level of social security as those above that age , and it push those affect into real poverty . let we not forget that when under - 25s go into Aldi , Lidl , Morrisons or whatever supermarket , they do not get a discount on their shopping because they be under 25 . I find that Ministers have an obsession with that . the hon . Gentleman have campaign on this issue , as have I . do he agree that the response I receive from the previous Secretary of State on this point — that under - 25s be treat differently because they tend to still be at home with their parent — be a pretty spurious argument and excuse from the Department ? that be right . it be not unusual for the previous Secretary of State to say thing which , after some scrutiny , might not make sense . the hon . Lady be right . for Ministers to hide behind the housing crisis — cause by this Tory Government — as some kind of justification for ensure that people under 25 get less support do not stand up to scrutiny . that point be hammer home to I on Friday , when I be in Drumchapel visit the Christians Against Poverty debt centre , to meet staff and volunteer there , to whom I pay enormous tribute for their sterling work . accord to one Parent Families Scotland , as a result of the young parent penalty , young couple parent be around £ 100 bad off per month than single parent , and around £ 65 bad off a month than over - 25s . that research find that 55 % of child with a mum under 25 be in relative poverty , and 49 % be in absolute poverty . let we never forget that those statistic be the result of the structural inequality put in place by intransigent Ministers . although I certainly welcome the change whereby people on UC will now be able to claim childcare support upfront , I be afraid that do not change the fundamental issue that the amount of UC that people receive be simply not enough . family will still be require to make up the 15 % shortfall in their overall childcare cost under UC rule . an issue that continue to come up in evidence at the Select Committee be that far too many household face destitution because of DWP rule that push they into debt through sanction and reduction — a point make eloquently by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) . Aberlour Children ' s Charity produce a report that state that half of family with child in Scotland who receive universal credit be have their income reduce by the DWP to cover debt to public body . I hope the Select Committee will be able to drill into that a bit more . it be increasingly a problem , and I be sure I be not the only MP who see people raise it regularly at advice surgery . it be well establish and on record that the SNP completely oppose the widespread use of sanction , as there be clear evidence that they do not work . indeed , evidence from the Department ' s report admit that sanction have a minimal effect on move people into work . instead , people who be sanction end up earn less than those who have not be sanction , or simply become economically inactive . the hon . Gentleman be make such important remark . do he agree that the impact of sanction be detrimental to people ' s mental health ? we be face a mental health crisis . if we want to support people get into work , we need to make sure that they be not struggle on the breadline . the hon . Lady be spot on . sometimes , Ministers overlook when they take those decision — yes , they might be drive by focus group and such thing — that the state bear the cost . if somebody hit a period of mental ill health or be make homeless , the health service or the local authority will pick up the piece . it be not without cost for the state . I would like Ministers to have the wide picture as they pursue sanction , because the research show that they do not work . the hon . Gentleman be be generous . do he agree that the issue of poverty be so concern for small child because it impact on the development of the brain and how well they will be able to learn ? if a child have a good five year at the start of their life , that will see they through life . so many child in desperate poverty who do not know whether they will get enough food be also in receipt of the anxiety their parent be in , as they battle those stressful situation . I be proud that the Scottish Government invest in thing such as the good start grant , the baby box and free school meal , to ensure that young people get the good possible start in life . my local authority in Glasgow be spend million of pound on holiday hunger programme , to ensure that child who receive free school meal during school term time be still be feed . it be a damn indictment on the state that we have to spend money from local authority budget feed child because their parent do not have enough money . that be the situation we be in , in the fifth rich economy in the world . remarkably , as I be sure we will hear when the Minister respond to the debate , Ministers be still force more people into the sanction regime , which far demonstrate the fundamental issue with the british Government ' s attitude to those on low income : prevent vulnerable family from receive the social security they be entitle to and , most importantly , when they need it the most . before I draw my remark to a close , I want to turn to the local housing allowance . the freeze of LHA rate for three consecutive year be place additional and needless pressure on tenant and housing association , and be likely to increase poverty and inequality . that be why Ministers should protect household income and support renter by restore LHA rate to the 30th percentile as a minimum . the SNP have long call for the british Government to fix those fundamental flaw in our social security system but , as be so often the case , it fall on deaf ear each and every time , to the extent that every time I take part in one of these debate , it feel like groundhog day . the blunt truth be that the Scottish Government can not change those policy while 85 % of welfare expenditure and income replacement benefit remain reserved to this institution here in London . that include universal credit . by all mean , I be happy to take part in debate and make suggestion about how we repair the social security system , but it be difficult to conclude anything other than Westminster — whether the Tories or the pro - Brexit Labour party — have zero appetite to genuinely step in and sew up a system that be fail some of the most vulnerable people in society . for that reason , the only way genuinely to bring about that compassionate , fair and dignified social security system in Scotland be with the full power of independence . frankly , that can not come soon enough . I call the shadow Minister . this have be a good , important and timely debate . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , on bring the debate to the Floor of the House . he rightly open it by place in context the size of the Department and its central place at the heart of economic policy , and discuss the work of his Committee , which have be substantial , on look into some of the Department ' s very significant flaw . give the economic situation the country now face , the work of the Committee have never be more important . as he mention , it have publish very important and significant review , and some of the recommendation have be adopt by the Government , so I applaud he for secure the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , in her usual way , explain the manner in which poverty harm people not just in their financial life but in every single aspect of their life . the Government would do well to listen to she . I want to make some brief remark — with an emphasis on brief — as many good point have already be make and I will not be repeat they all . I want to get to the heart of the point that have be discuss , in particular on universal credit . I have be in this House long enough to remember the country before universal credit , so I be able to compare and contrast the system we have before with the one we have now . I offer this reflection base on that experience . on its introduction , universal credit be claim to be a kind of cure - all which would release everyone from the so - call trap of poverty . I do not think that that be go to be true when it be introduce and I do not think it be true now . the Department for Work and Pensions , in its spending and policy choice , have to be far more than just universal credit and social security , important though they be . as much as the pension side of the Department be a huge part of its spending and very important , it must also be the department for dignity : the dignity of work and the dignity of well - function , decent social protection . those two area of policy must work hand in hand to ensure that the up and down of life do not upend life chance when unfortunate thing happen . we should be use good work and social protection to help people to move on and move up in life . the Chair of the Select Committee and other member have provide a good survey of what be happen in the Department at the moment . I would argue that on both work and social protection it be fail . on work , to put it simply , we have few people in work now than before the pandemic . that can not be a success . we have business cry out for staff , yet , unlike in other country , our employment rate have not recover from the pandemic . that be a huge failure . pay , the money in people ' s pocket , have be stagnant for the past decade . we think about the promise make about universal credit and all the Department do , so what question have the Minister ask about that ? what research have he commission to get underneath why pay be so stagnant ? we have have review of in - work progression . the Government have claim that they want to tackle our productivity crisis . what research and evidence have the DWP actually publish to show , despite the claim make about universal credit support people to escape the so - call poverty trap that Conservative Members feel previous government have create , why we have have such stagnant level of pay ? it be arguable that the Department ' s policy choice might have exacerbate the labour market crisis , so I ask the Minister again : what policy do he have now , today , to help people escape low - pay work ? for all the Government have talk about the possibility of universal credit , why have it deliver so very little in term of the money in people ' s pocket and their chance of get on ? have universal credit really deliver all that be promise ? on all those area — work incentive , the chance family have to do well , pay progression and support employer to get the skilled staff they need — I look at all the Department do and I have many question about the disappearance of that promise success . we have have a series of fail employment scheme . Kickstart fail to deliver what it be say it would deliver . we hear from member about restart and the work and health programme , and all we do not know about what they be do . look at the labour market and everything that the Bank of England have say about the consequence for our economy of the state of the labour market , do the Minister really believe that the DWP be help , or be it a hindrance ? I would love to hear he talk about publish evidence that the Department ' s policy be actually help . finally on work , one major challenge for our economy be the imbalanced labour market . business in many town across the country be cry out for staff , yet we have an unemployment challenge . some town and city have area where unemployment be twice the national average . how can that be right in a country that have such a need for staff ? do the Minister really believe that his Department ' s spending and policy choice be help ? work should be the way that all of we achieve our hope and ambition . I just wish the Department be able to live up to those ambition . as many people have say , social security should be the backstop that put a floor beneath family , yet at almost every step over the past decade the Conservative Government have make that hard . at every turn , the political turbulence they have create have have an economic cost for our country as a whole , and for family up and down the country . the inflation we now face make life hard for everybody , but not equally . if we look at the money family must now find to put food on the table and pay their bill , we know that the choice make by the Tories have make life hard for those who be already find it tough . their failing on energy have make life much hard , in particular for people with disability who pay significant extra cost . it be a well - evidence phenomenon that people who face illness or disability have significant challenge with the rise cost of energy . the Conservative Government have never take their need into account enough . I agree with comment make by both my colleague on the Select Committee that the relationship between the Department and people with disability be not nearly good enough to achieve what we would wish for they . the evidence of failure be all around we , whether it be the open door of food bank or the closed door of business who have be unable to survive this crisis of inflation and staff shortage . on the housing crisis , I would bet anything — I be not a bet woman , but I would none the less bet anything — that almost every Member have see a rise in their housing case load . even those with a relatively low case load have see it rise in relation to the recent housing crisis . one fact above all shine out of the Department ' s account : rise ill health , which be have economic consequence for all of we and disastrous consequence for people who be try to earn money to keep their family house and feed . over the past decade or more , the Tories have be not just not up to the challenge ; they have actively make it bad . it be an honour once again to present the case on behalf of the Department for Work and Pensions in an estimate day debate . I have lose track of the number of time I have do this , but I have certainly do so on numerous occasion during my seven year at the Department . it be , first of all , my privilege to thank all DWP staff — whom I regard as a massive help and not a hindrance , as some may have suggest — for the fantastic work that they do up and down the country . will the Minister give way ? no . the Government have never pay more for the pension that we support in this country , we have never pay more for the benefit support that we provide in this country , we have never pay more for the housing support that we provide in this country , and we have never pay more for the disabled in this country . as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the national health service , let I also put on record my thank to the NHS . I have have my life save twice by the NHS , once after I collapse in Central Lobby in 2011 . I get into politic because of my attempt to save my local hospital , and I be proud to have visit Hexham General Hospital this week to see the amazing new maternity suite that have recently be open . much have be say today about a variety of issue , but I want to try to put the debate in context . the Government clearly understand the pressure that household be face . we be all familiar with the root cause of our high cost , include the global factor : the illegal war in Ukraine bring about by Vladimir Putin , the aftermath and consequence of the pandemic , and the furlough scheme and the other support that we set out in great detail and the country provide at a time of difficulty . we be committed to deliver on our priority of halve inflation , which will help to ease those pressure for everyone and raise living standard . alongside that work , we continue to implement a significant package of cost of live measure to support the most vulnerable during 2023 - 24 . we have increase benefit and state pension by 10 . 1 % , and raise the benefit cap by the same amount so that more people feel the benefit of uprating . for low - pay worker , we have increase the national living wage by 9 . 7 % to £ 10 . 42 an hour ; that represent an increase of more than £ 1 , 600 in the gross annual earning of a full - time worker on the national living wage . that increase , and the increase that we make in the national minimum wage in April , have give a pay rise to about 2 . 9 million worker . to help parent , we be deliver a significant expansion of childcare support , include a 47 % increase in the maximum amount of universal credit childcare payment . as I say in the House last week , that be a dramatic increase . in addition , where there be gap in provision , notwithstanding the above cost of living payment , the £ 842 million extension of our household support fund into 2023 - 24 mean that council across England can continue to help family with grocery bill and other essential . some universal credit claimant can apply to have the housing element of their universal credit pay directly to the landlord . however , a report by the Child Poverty Action Group on the discovery phase of manage migration identify delay or error in the setting up of direct payment and poor communication between the DWP , landlord and claimant , lead to people fall into arrear . that be clearly a serious state of affair for anyone to find themselves in . will the Minister tell we what the Government be go to do about it ? I will ask the Minister who be responsible for that to write to the hon . Lady . however , her intervention bring I to the issue of housing , which be raise by several member . in 2022 - 23 , the Government be project to have spend £ 30 billion to support renter . that be 1 . 4 % of gdp . member may have criticise that sum , but they should be aware that it represent the high spending on household rental support in any country in the OECD . the next high be 0 . 9 % of gdp . that figure be clearly high than the figure that obtain when we come to office . moreover , there be 2 million more home than there be then , and more home be meet decent home standard . I could go on . Employment now stand at 30 million . it be up 23 , 000 on the month and 73 , 000 on the quarter , and vacancy be down again — 35 , 000 down on the month in May and 79 , 000 down on the quarter . today I meet representative of ukhospitality and a host of hospitality provider at the Department to discuss some of the long - term vacancy issue that they wish to raise . I believe we can continue to work with jobcentre throughout the country to try and address that , and to increase the overall employment rate , which be up by 0 . 1 % on the month and 0 . 2 % on the quarter , with unemployment down by 0 . 1 percentage point on the month as of May . economic inactivity be down by 0 . 4 percentage point on the quarter and down by 781 , 000 since the 2010 general election . it be clear that the pandemic have impact , and the progress in certain area be not as quick as one would like , but we have make huge effort to turn that around , and all the indication from all the labour market statistic release by the Office for National Statistics in May be that the trend be in the right direction . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not . I have already give way to the hon . Lady . let I say something about cost of living payment . we be build on , and extend , the one - off cash payment that we provide in 2022 - 23 , when we make more than £ 30 million worth of cost of living payment , include the £ 150 disability payment to 6 million people , £ 650 for more than 8 million household on mean - test benefit , and an additional £ 300 on top of the winter fuel payment for more than 8 million pensioner household . that put hundred of pound directly and quickly into the pocket of million of people . criticism be make of universal credit as a principle . the first — and simple — point that I would make , which I think be acknowledge by the Chair of the Select Committee , be that the legacy system would in no way have be able to provide the degree of support that universal credit provide during covid , and it would in no way be able to provide an ongoing degree of cost of live support . universal credit , as we see , provide a massive amount of support on an ongoing basis , which be target to help those most impact by rise price throughout this financial year . will the Minister give way ? there be about a dozen point make by the right hon . Gentleman to which I be go to respond , but I will give way once again . I be grateful to the Minister . when do he expect to make a decision on whether the cost of living payment will continue for a further year ? when , this year , be that decision likely to be make ? because the right hon . Gentleman and I have work together for many year — and I emphasise " together " — he will know that I have be a humble junior functionary at the Department for Work and Pensions for a very long time , never to rise any higher . let I also say to the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) that I have have the privilege of serve under three female secretary of State before the present Secretary of State . I think I be now on my seventh Secretary of State . these matter be monumentally above my pay grade , and , as I be sure the right hon . Gentleman know , have do my job and many other job in the Government , they will be decide by the Chancellor and the Prime Minister at some stage over the course of the come year . [ interruption . ] I have much to be modest about , to be honest . as I have say , these matter be above my pay grade and beyond my knowledge , but they will be consider . there will be an autumn statement in November , which will be the obvious time for decision to be telegraph , if not make . the right hon . Gentleman raise a number of point , and I will try to answer some of they in the time that I have . he mention prison leaver . the Department recognise the need for prisoner and carer to be able to make advance claim for universal credit , and there be a working process in place to support that . I have meet the prison Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , who will welcome any question that will follow during the justice debate , and the social mobility Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , who look after most aspect of matter relate to prisoner , on several occasion to try to drive forward universal credit take - up . however , it require the individual to desire to do that , and that be clearly complicated and not easy . it be a work in progress , but it be very much something that we be aware of . I know that the social mobility Minister be give evidence to the Select Committee tomorrow , so I will not address in too much detail the issue the right hon . member for East Ham raise on the Health and Safety Executive , which be one of the few brief I have not hold in the last few year . he rightly raise the issue of transparency , and I would respectfully say that I agree with he . the present Secretary of State have transform the position in that regard . the right hon . Gentleman know my strong view that , save where we have to provide datum on a monthly basis under labour market statistic , we should have six - monthly provision of the vast plethora of datum , link to the two fiscal event of the year , but that be a work in progress . the Department be definitely review all aspect of those thing . the right hon . Gentleman raise the flexible support fund and particular issue about people take bus to work . I want to take issue with that , because there be absolutely no doubt that a jobcentre can use the flexible support fund to support bus or other transport fare for agree work - relate activity . if it be for a work - relate activity , that support can be provide as it be in other context — childcare be the one of which he will be particularly aware . I would certainly very much hope that the individual jobcentre that he refer to would be aware of that . on fraud and error , the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that huge amount of effort be be make by the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , who take control of that particular part of the portfolio , and by the Secretary of State in a multitude of different way . we have a large number of extra staff who have be bring in to address fraud and error . accord to the late national statistic , it have fall to 3 . 6 % from 4 % , and overpayment from fraud be down to 2 . 7 % compare with 3 % in 2021 - 22 . universal credit loss have fall by nearly 2 % over a similar period . bluntly , we be try to crack down on those who be exploit the benefit system , and we want to make it very clear that we be come after those people . we want to ensure that the maximum amount of support go to the people who need it . the targeted support include support for people on mean - test benefit such as universal credit , with up to three cost of living payment total up to £ 900 . we have deliver the first £ 301 payment to 8 . 3 million household in support worth £ 2 . 5 billion . the two further payment of £ 300 and £ 299 will be make in the autumn and next spring . to help with additional cost , we have pay the disability cost of live payment to 6 million people as well as pay the winter fuel support payment . a huge amount be be do in jobcentre , whether that be through the in - work progression offer , the support of extra work coach , the over - 50 support , the administrative earning threshold support or the 37 new district progression lead who be work with key partner , include local government , employer and skilled provider , to identify and develop local opportunity and to overcome barrier that limit progression . the hon . member for North East Fife raise a number of pension matter . clearly , I continue to defend the action of the Labour Government and the coalition Government on the rise in state pension age . she refer to both the LEAP exercise and what have happen at HMRC , and they be both work in progress . I do not believe there be any fundamental change to that of which she have be previously advise . on pension credit , she will be aware that there have be an increase in excess of , I think , 170 % in application . there be a slight backlog , but that be come down dramatically . on the gender pension gap , she will be aware of the change to the new state pension , which be massively advantageous to woman , and of the fact that successive government — start with the Labour Government and the Turner commission , and then the coalition — have bring in automatic enrolment specifically to address that particular issue . the hon . Lady raise a final point about those who change job in later life . I can not overstate the importance of the project for which I have be press for only five and a half year now , which be the mid - life mot . I be delighted to say it be now be roll out across the country , whether that be online , in jobcentre up and down the country or , more particularly , in the three private sector body that be trialle particular process . if she be not yet acquaint with that , I would strongly urge she to become so , particularly because in her area of Scotland in North East Fife there be , I know , provider that be offer that process . I can provide she with the detail . Aviva and other be do very good stuff there . I be conscious that I have be speak for some time , but the practical reality be that we believe we be remove the barrier that prevent people from work . we believe that we be reduce the number of people who be economically inactive , with a fifth consecutive month when inactivity have decline . I accept that there be more to do , and I be determined to leave no stone unturned in take the decisive action need across Government to see that downward trend continue . in conclusion , I believe that we be tackle inflation to help manage the cost of living . we be provide extra support . the economic trend , as show by the labour market statistic , be head in the right direction and , with the Government ' s ongoing significant package of cost of live support , that be worth over £ 94 billion in excess of the rise to state pension and benefit . we be protect those most in need from the bad impact of rise price by put more pound in people ' s pocket , and I commend these estimate to the House . to conclude , I call Sir Stephen Timms . let I reiterate my thank to the Backbench Business Committee for enable we to hold the debate , and I would like to thank everyone who have take part in the debate as well . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) speak in the debate last year as well , I be pleased to say , and I want to pick up one point she make about the gender pension gap . I join she in welcome the fact that the Pensions Minister have now come forward with a definition of that , so that we know what we be talk about . but I also agree with she that we need a target to reduce it , and I hope that we will see that in due course as well . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) for all her work on the Committee and her very committed work on behalf of disabled people . this afternoon , she speak about the scourge of disability poverty and some of the thing that we need to do to tackle that . I be grateful to the hon . member for Glasgow East ( David Linden ) for combine his work on the Committee with his Front - Bench role . he make a very valuable contribution to the work of the Committee . let I endorse his tribute to the work of the organisation Christians Against Poverty , which be very valuable . it be do a very impressive job all over the country . I be grateful for the intervention we have have from my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Margaret Greenwood ) , the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) — it be good to see he back on this beat — and the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) . I be grateful to the Minister for suggest that we will perhaps hear about the plan for further cost of living payment in the autumn statement . I think they will be need . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) be absolutely right to make the point from the Opposition Front Bench that in many respect the security have be remove from social security . that be a lamentable feature of the last few year . the level of benefit be much too low and it have not be properly uprated . I want to renew my appeal . we do have a proper uprating this year , thankfully , but we need that again next year . we be talk about a historically low level of benefit . that be the major reason why food bank demand be still rise . if we do not have a full uprating next year , it will rise far . I be glad the Minister have confirm that the Department be review arrangement for transparency . I be grateful to he for that and the confirmation he have give of the direction of travel and the work in progress . I be also interested to hear about the staff be recruit to tackle fraud and error . the Committee would be very interested to follow progress on that and perhaps to table some question about how many staff there be . I be very grateful to have have the opportunity to have this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to everyone who have contribute to it . question defer until tomorrow at seven o ' clock ( Standing Order no . 54 ) Ministry of Justice his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service Motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Justice : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 6 , 418 , 705 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 1383 of session 2022 – 23 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 1 , 528 , 277 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 7 , 350 , 811 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Scott Mann . ) it be a pleasure to open this important debate , and I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for give we the opportunity to debate this part of the Ministry of Justice estimate . I be glad to see the Minister and the shadow Minister in their place . I want to raise succinctly , but in some detail , a number of press area that trouble the Select Committee on Justice . despite the funding increase that have recently be achieve , there be a background that cause real difficulty to the Prison and Probation Service . I will highlight four area in particular where the Minister ought to seek to persuade the Government to prioritise and increase their effort , for the sake of both those who work in his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service and the offender it be mean to manage and hold safely but humanely , with a view to reform wherever possible . I will flag up the following issue : prison capacity , the project prison population and overcrowding ; the quality of the prison estate ; the prison and probation workforce , and workforce shortage ; and the youth custody estate . the Select Committee have look at these matter on a number of occasion , and we be currently carry out an inquiry into the prison workforce — I be grateful to everyone who have give evidence so far , and I appreciate the engagement we have have with Ministers . I will start with one of the most pressing issue face the Prison Service today . we now have the late prison population projection and the reason for their increase . the reality be simply that the prison population have grow substantially over the past 30 year . as of last Friday , there be some 85 , 851 people in prison . the number have change a bit even since then . despite the Government ' s effort to manage the population , England and Wales have the high imprisonment rate in western Europe and , of course , it be project to grow far . we see no sign of the imprisonment rate fall . at the same time as have one of the high imprisonment rate in western Europe , we also have one of the bad reoffende rate . successive government have fail to address that ironic dichotomy . the hon . Gentleman , the Minister and the shadow Minister know my bona fide on matter of law and order . bad and dangerous people should be in prison to protect the public , but we do not talk often enough about prevention and rehabilitation . it would cost far less to keep people out of prison , and to stop they go back into prison , than to keep they in prison . I could not agree more . the current Lord Chancellor have say previously that prison be there for the people of whom we be entitle to be afraid , not for the people with whom we be annoyed or angry . that be an important distinction , because prison be there to deal with those who be a danger to society or who have significantly harm society ; it be not there , in an ideal world , to deal with people who , for any number of reason , have get their life into a mess . such people can be a nuisance to society , but there be surely a well way to handle they than incarceration in the closed estate at a cost of some £ 40 , 000 a year . the Justice Committee hold an inquiry into the prison population back in 2017 . there be about a 15 % reduction in the prison budget between 2015 and 2020 , and it be find that have an impact on the safety and decency of the estate , follow a reduction in the number of prison officer between 2010 and 2015 . in truth , there have be underinvestment in prison and , I would argue , underinvestment in the whole justice system for decade , under government of all complexion . because the Ministry of Justice be both an unprotected Department , in budgetary term , and a downstream Department , it often pick up the consequence of thing that have go wrong elsewhere in society and elsewhere in Government . the Ministry of Justice be particularly vulnerable . in 2017 we see there have be a 20 % increase in the prison population over 15 year , and future projection indicate growth to 2022 . there be , at that time , a transformation programme commit to expand the prison estate by 10 , 000 place and to close outdated prison . sadly , the truth be that the programme be not fully deliver . the Public Accounts Committee report that just 206 place be deliver by the programme . in 2018 the Ministry of Justice decide not to deliver the prison estate transformation in full because of budgetary pressure . around 6 , 500 place be remove from the programme , but nothing have be do to reduce demand . indeed , a number of change to sentencing policy have , in fact , increase demand in a number of area . the 2017 inquiry find clear evidence that the reduction of spending in prison have have a major destabilising effect . reduce staff number put more pressure on remain staff , and the way in which facility management service be outsource through block contract mean the operation be very remote and very unresponsive to the day - to - day need in prison . it be very frustrating for governor , who be frequently find that it take month to get basic repair do . the nature of the contract be seriously at fault . I do not have a problem with contracting out in the right circumstance , but the way it be do be extremely inefficient . six year on , the Prison Service face largely the same issue . the population have continue to increase , there be still an issue with the recruitment and retention of staff , and the estate still have capacity pressure . there be another prison expansion programme in 2019 , and the " Prisons Strategy " White Paper say the provision of prison place would make a " more modern and secure " estate . there be an ambitious target of 20 , 000 additional prison place as part of that programme , but we now know that planning permission have not be grant for three prison — either it have be refuse or no decision have be make — and the Ministry of Justice be have to appeal those planning decision . that be hardly join - up government . surely the risk of delay in planning should have be foresee at the outset . on behalf of the Committee , I write to the permanent secretary at the MOJ follow the publication of its main estimate , and I be grateful to she for respond yesterday . disappointingly , only 8 , 200 new prison place will have be create and make operational by May 2025 . we be about 11 , 800 short of the Government ' s target of 20 , 000 by the mid - 2020s . give that background , be the Minister convince that the current prison expansion programme be genuinely deliverable ? when be we go to get to the 20 , 000 place ? what step be be take to speed up a rate of delivery that , so far , will not get we there ? prison in England and Wales be reach breaking point ; the growth in the adult male population have force the Government to use police cell to accommodate prisoner , through Operation Safeguard . the Government have say that would be in place for no long than be necessary , but how much long do the Minister anticipate that will be ? how frequently be Operation Safeguard be use ? I mention the change to sentence policy , which have put more pressure on prison . for example , we have see change to magistrate ' sentence power ; there be an increase to two year and then , suddenly , a temporary reduction back down to one year . that be not good lawmaking , and it be not fair or just sentence policy to have a lottery whereby when a defendant appear before the court decide whether he be deal with by the magistrate or commit to the Crown court . as we all know , that move be do not because magistrate sentence more heavily — there be no evidence to suggest that — but because if people be send to the Crown court for sentence , as the magistrate deem their power insufficient , it will take long before they end up in prison . there be a bit of sleight of hand here , as that be do to ease out the demand in the prison system , push people ' s arrival in prison back down the road a bit , in the hope that somebody else will have leave by then and so a bit more space be available . that be not the right approach and it put more pressure on another part of the MOJ ' s responsibility , the Crown court , because more case be then be send to they when they could have be deal with more quickly by the magistrate . the Government need to address that situation . what be go to be do to deal with it ? how long do the MOJ envisage this reduction in sentence power last ? what be be do to consult the judiciary on whether that be a proper approach to the use of judicial resource and sentencing policy ? I know that there have be a temporary response in respect of rapid deployment cell , which may offer some support . it may be of some assistance , but what be the long - term plan ? how long do we envisage those cell be in use ? what be the plan eventually to integrate they with the rest of the estate ? we have the plan for the 20 , 000 prison place , but the delay be significant . that mean there be significant overcrowding in the estate , which be the second point I want to address . the overcrowding be such that it be difficult for prison staff to carry out rehabilitative work , which be one of the objective of prison . that feed into that high rate of recidivism and reoffende that I have refer to . it also create real challenge on our basic duty of care towards both prisoner and prison officer . when the state remove someone ' s liberty for the broad public good , it have the duty to commit to keep they safe and in decent condition . equally , the state have a duty to provide decent , safe and reasonable working environment for those who supervise the prisoner and run the prison . I fear that in a number of our prison we be simply not get there at the moment . we be simply fail in that , and repeat report from his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison have flag that up . the growth in the number of urgent notification that have be issue by the inspector to the MOJ be also evidence of that . I appreciate that the Minister have always respond promptly to those urgent notification procedure , and I be grateful to he for that , but it speak to an underlying problem that need to be resolve . I suspect that that can be do only through sustained investment and by think about whether we be use the alternative to prison effectively . to go back to the point make by the hon . member for St Helens North ( Conor McGinn ) , we need to make sure that we use it for those who be dangerous , where there be no other safe mean of deal with they and we can not use cheap and often more effective rehabilitative alternative . we still have many victorian prison — the " local prison " , as they be often call — some of which be in a very poor state . they have be describe as " not fit for purpose " and " dilapidate " . there have be historical under - investment in maintenance and we have a backlog of maintenance work in the prison . in March 2021 this be estimate to be about £ 1 billion - worth . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service be regularly take prison cell out of use because of their state of disrepair . in the decade between 2009 - 10 and 2019 - 20 , some 1 , 730 prison cell be permanently out of use for fail to meet the require standard . the lack of money go into basic maintenance therefore add to the capacity crisis . the Chair of the Justice Committee be make an excellent critique of the system . there be something ironic about prison be so undermaintained and need £ 1 billion spend on they , such that their accommodation be not available , when some £ 4 billion be be spend on new prison at the same time . it look as if we be just forget the one that we have , particularly the remand and the local prison . I have a lot of sympathy with that point . the irony be that the chief inspector of prison , in his 2021 annual report , describe some of those old prison as " cold , dark and shabby cell … often plague by damp and cockroach , leak pipe and toilet , and break or miss furniture and window " but , at the same time , as we have already observe , the new prison building schedule be way behind and , because of the planning situation , so far we have no assurance about when those space will be deliver . in any event , they will not replace the dilapidated prison , as we have originally hope , but will simply increase capacity , because we have a tap that nobody seem able to find the mean of properly turn off , in term of those come into the system . the original plan be to close old prison as part of the prison estate transformation programme , but that have not happen . in 2019 the Minister ' s predecessor say that they would need to be keep open . well , how long do we expect to keep those prison open ? what be the long - term plan for those prison ? what be the plan to ensure that the risk in relation to planning permission and restrictive covenant , which plague the potential redevelopment of Holloway , for example , be recognise and sort out well in advance of the commitment of the capital ? it be worth observe that we have have an increase in the capital departmental expenditure limit for prison , which be welcome , but if we be spend only a fraction of it so far — as I recall it be about £ 4 billion , and we have spend about £ 1 . 6 billion so far — clearly we have resource be allocate by the Treasury that we can not have confidence that the Ministry be able to spend and use to deliver in a timely fashion . what step be the Minister take to deal with that ? what reassurance can he give we ? what be the plan to speed up that programme and get the resource spend where it be need ? the other issue I want to deal with be the operational workforce — as I say , the Committee be currently run an inquiry on that . I pay tribute to the man and woman who work in our prison . they do a very tough job , which probably no one in this House would want to do . they do it on behalf of society , frequently in difficult and unpleasant condition — sometimes unacceptable condition — and at some risk to themselves . they deserve to have the recognition that I do not think they always get . on behalf of the Justice Committee , I recognise and salute they for what they do , but we need more than just recognition and warm word ; we need some real support for they . as part of the inquiry , the Justice Committee undertake a survey of serve prison officer . some 6 , 582 staff respond to it , which be a decent number . the response be strike . we find that half of band 3 to band 5 staff do not feel safe at the prison they work in . feel safe at work be surely a basic right for anyone . half be a frightening statistic . report from the inspector and the independent monitoring board have highlight the grow number of assault , both on staff by prisoner and between prisoner . that be a result of the cramped , overcrowded and stressful condition in which many prisoner be hold , so perhaps it be no surprise that the prison officer feel so concerned about that . band 3 to band 5 and band 2 be the key operational grade — the frontline people who do job on the wing . only 15 % of band 2 operational staff feel they have proper , regular training ; 25 % of band 3 to band 5 staff say they have regular training . that mean the majority of staff do not think that they have such training . surely train people be a basic part of make sure that we professionalise and keep the workforce up to scratch ? we be bring in various protective equipment for they ; they need to be train to use it . it be no surprise that morale be low . More than 70 % of staff in band 2 and 80 % of staff in band 3 to 5 say that staff morale be not good at the prison in which they work . if that be the position with the frontline staff , be it any wonder that we have a problem not just with recruitment , but with retention ? it be clear that there be a real issue with experienced officer leave the service . when thing get difficult in prison , when those tension threaten to boil over , and when there be potential dispute or violence on the wing , it be exactly those experienced officer — the old hand , the man and woman who have be around the system — who know how to deal with sometimes quite damaged and challenging individual . their experience be more necessary than anyone ' s to calm thing down and to prevent thing from escalate . therefore , unless we have a proper strategy for retention , we be create a potential powder keg for the future . ultimately , we have both to retain and to increase the number of staff . unless we do that , we will not get the purposeful activity that be necessary to make prison beneficial ; otherwise we end up just warehouse individual with no benefit at the end of it . that pressure on staffing and overcrowding in prison be reflect in the concern of the president of the Prison Governors Association , Andrea Albutt , who say that the prison system face an immediate crisis and could run out of prison place as early as mid - July . what be the Minister ' s assessment of that ? do he agree with the president of the Prison Governors Association that , in a few day ' time , we could run out of space ? if so , we be in a very grave situation indeed . what , too , about the observation of the Shannon Trust — I be very grateful for its information — point out that statistic from the Office of National Statistics , HM Prison and Probation Service and the voluntary sector suggest that some 62 % of all those incarcerate have a literacy level low than an average 11 - year - old ? give that we have some 85 , 000 people in prison , that potentially equate to about 53 , 000 people who have real literacy deficit . without that be put right , what be their hope of get a job on release ? how do we then get they out of that cycle of reoffende ? because it be so difficult to carry out education activity in those cramp and inadequate facility and to attract staff to do the tough job of education work in prison , all too frequently , the level of course be not be deliver in the way that be intend . what will the Minister do to increase the amount of education and purposeful activity that we see in our prison ? we all say that it be the objective , but so far we be not deliver on it in any consistent manner . let I look beyond prison to the critical issue of probation , which be sometimes , I fear , regard as the poor relation of the two . the bulk of the budget go on prison because of the very high fix cost , but probation be essential and we should pay tribute , too , to the probation officer who work so hard . it be essential to give alternative to prison in the first place and , secondly , to have a proper mean of transition prisoner back into society when they be release , without the risk of reoffende . when we carry out our inquiry , we find high staff vacancy , overloaded probation practitioner work overcapacity , poor staff retention and inaccurate risk assessment , all of which be flag up by the chief inspector of probation , who say that many service be experience exceptional staff shortage , with half the position at key grade in some area be unfilled . it be no wonder , therefore , that thing be be miss . that be a risk not only to prisoner , but , potentially in the bad case , to the public as well . what be be do to deal with staff pressure in the probation service ? we meet many probation officer . they want to improve their service , but they need decent and sustain funding to do so . you can not have it be switch on and off like a light switch . we know that three fifth of the hmpps ' s expenditure be on prison . we need to concentrate on and not forget the other two fifth of the budget as well . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way one more time and then I shall move on . I be sorry to intrude on the hon . Gentleman again . he be make an excellent speech . I think he will agree that the privatisation of the probation service be a disaster and it be right that that be be reverse , but that do not mean that probation can not work with the private and voluntary sector , particularly around employment . there be some great example of that , with firm such as Timpson , the voluntary sector and organisation such as the Prison Advice and Care Trust . it be important that the service work collectively with all those group to ensure that we stop people from reoffende , and help they rebuild , get on and be successful in their life . yet again the hon . Gentleman be spot on . I join he in pay tribute to Timpson , for example . the work of the Timpson family and their firm have be consistently quite exceptional over a long period ; I have constituent who benefit through their endeavour and many other in the House will have similar case . the hon . Gentleman ' s point be an important one . the Justice Committee be critical of the way the probation service be privatised . as he know , I do not have an ideological objection to privatise service , in the right circumstance and in the right way , but the simple truth be that the way it be do in probation be absolutely the wrong way to do it , split up and dislocate the service , with a mixture of that which be retain nationally and that which be with various outsourced company . it be wholly unsatisfactory and create some dire result . I pay tribute to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , who , when he be Justice Secretary , take the tough but right decision to reverse the process and unify the service once more . that be welcome . none the less , that privatisation be still affect morale , it have affect retention and it have create considerable dislocation in datum sharing between various service . it also break a number of the local tie that have be develop between the probation service and local authority and other provider in the area . ironically , as the hon . member for St Helens North say , there be a role for the private sector . the privatisation of probation be intend to have more private sector group come in to the provision of probation work and more small - scale charity . what happen instead be that it go on bulk contract to some of the usual big outsourcer and defeat its own object . we need to work hard now to ensure that we give charity , not - for - profit and small - scale organisation real access to provide service where they can bring a unique perspective . again , I would be grateful for the Minister ' s observation on what the Government will do to encourage those provider into the sector , where they can work collaboratively with the new unified service . we currently have 220 , 000 people on probation and 16 , 000 staff in probation . the service have be through any amount of upheaval . it now need stability and support — both practical financial support and recognition for the work that it do . I have only a couple more point , Mr Deputy Speaker . I turn now to the youth custody estate . youth custody , it should be say , have be a real success . we imprison far few people now than we use to . that be a real win that all side involve can take credit for . the service do not face the same pressure of number and we have see a steady decline in the number of child in custody . one be tempt to say , " why , if we can do that for child , largely because of a more holistic approach and far more early intervention , can we not apply the same philosophy to the adult estate as well ? " the principle be not different : it be get in early when we see the first sign of the problem in someone ' s life that be likely to make they more vulnerable to fall into offending . if we can do that successfully for youngster , why should we not at least do much more of it in the adult estate too ? however , although the number be not an issue , safety be a real concern in the youth estate . staff retention be a problem in the youth estate too , which have an impact on safety . lack of staff and training be also a matter of concern and recent inspection report from his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison have raise concern about education in the yoi . safety concern extend beyond physical harm . if the institution fail to provide adequate educational programme , vocational training and rehabilitative regime , young offender will not receive the tool they need to reintegrate into society . instead , they will be all the more vulnerable to be suck back in to the leadership model of their criminal friend on the outside , whom in many case they join up with because of the gap elsewhere in their life . I write to the Minister in May about the woeful finding in relation to his Majesty ' s Prison Cookham Wood in the urgent notification procedure there , and I be grateful to the Minister for his response . however , it be pretty disappointing to see yet another urgent notification be issue in relation to a fail prison — particularly one where child be involve . we must see improvement for those child . they have be entrust to the state ' s care , and we have a duty to they to ensure that they be safe and that when they leave those institution , they be in a well place than when they go in . I recognise the Government ' s attempt to stabilise prison and probation by inject funding , but they be try to make up for the great deal that be take out early . I recognise the Minister ' s commitment , and I appreciate the personal courtesy and determination in his word . I recognise in particular the commitment of the new Secretary of State , who understand these issue very well from his own professional background . they will both know that we have a lot of ground to make up to get prison and probation back to where they should be . the fact that there be some increase in the estimate be good news , as I have demonstrate , but I fear , first , that it may not be enough and , secondly , that we need an assurance that funding will be sustain over a period of year and that the Ministry have the capacity to spend the money wisely and successfully to deliver on all that . I hope that the Minister will respond on those matter with his usual care and courtesy , but we need not just word but a clear programme of action . frankly , we need to increase and raise the extent and awareness of public debate about the Prison and Probation Service , as we need to with the whole criminal justice system . it ought to be a decent prison system and probation system — a means of protect the public but also of rehabilitate those offender who can be rehabilitate — and that ought to be as central a mission to any Government as a decent education , health or social care system . it do not get the same level of attention . perhaps this debate will help , if only in a small way , to flag up some of the issue . we all have a duty to talk about those issue with our constituent , in a measured and calm way , more than perhaps we currently do . it be a real pleasure to follow that forensic speech by the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . he take we through many of the problem , particularly those in the Prison Service . I will be rather more selective about the issue I speak about , but I will concentrate in particular on prison condition . three week ago , I visit Wormwood Scrubs prison in my constituency . it be a prison that I have visit on and off for the past 30 year as an MP , a councillor and a criminal barrister . despite meet many dedicated officer and determined governor , I have never change my mind about it be an unsuitable institution in the 21st century , particularly for the rehabilitation , or indeed the punishment , of offender . on my most recent visit , I see that many of the man be share one - person cell with unshielded toilet , make their living condition cramp and unpleasant with no privacy . in addition , the Scrubs , like many prison , be still operate a 23 - hour lock - up regime , in which some prisoner get only one hour a day outside their cell . be it any wonder , then , that self - harm and poor mental health be at a high across the prison estate ? I recently ask a series of write question of the Minister ' s Department , mainly on the topic of time out of cell . the MOJ respond that it do not hold those statistic centrally and that it be not practical for it to record the datum . how do the MOJ hope to have an overview of the wellbeing of the prison population in its care if it do not know what each prison ' s time - out - of - cell regime be ? I follow up to inquire about why the MOJ do not collect that datum centrally , and I be provide yesterday with a response that say that the MOJ would need to record datum for each prisoner individually , base on his or her movement each day , to understand time out of cell for each prison . if I may say so , that be a ridiculous response and the Minister have misunderstand the question — not intentionally , I hope . to get an understanding of each prison ' s time - out - of - cell regime , the MOJ need only ask each prison to report that datum to it . as the data be about the time out of cell rather than the individual schedule of prisoner , it will be much simple to collect than the Ministry pretend . [ interruption . ] the Minister be chuntere from a sedentary position . I be sure that he will , when he respond , deal with that point in more detail . a couple of week ago at Justice question , I also ask about the overcrowded condition in prison . that datum be hold and publish by the Government , but I do not think it be an accurate representation of what be and be not an overcrowded prison . for example , when I visit Wormwood Scrubs , the governor tell I that she have just be ask by the MOJ to increase operational capacity . how will we ever know if a prison be overcrowded if the MOJ keep move the goalpost of operational capacity ? if the MOJ keep ask prison to increase operational capacity , overcrowding will become an even big problem , as well as something of a hidden one . prison be overcrowded , single cell be be use to house two people , and most time - out - of - cell regime be oppressively restrictive . what necessitate much of that be an insufficient number of staff on the wing . prison need more staff , but they can not hire more staff if their budget do not allow it . Prison officer be leave the profession in their drove , and it be not hard to see why . it be a very dangerous job ; prison officer be at very real risk of physical injury . it be also emotionally tax see prisoner at some of the low point in their life , and get very little assistance by way of productive work , education and other support . the pay do not do the job justice , and be proof that the MOJ have insufficient regard for the profession . it waste thousand of pound train new prison officer who then leave within the first two year due to the condition . it be clear that something be go very wrong , and the Government need to fix the problem . as well as prison officer , will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to prison chaplain , particularly at his local prison of Wormwood Scrubs , where Father Gerry McFlynn be the chaplain for a long time ? he be now the director of the Irish Council for Prisoners Overseas ; my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) will know he . Father Gerry celebrate his golden jubilee just last week — he be 50 year an ordain priest , and have dedicate his whole life to prison and prison chaplaincy . I be sure my hon . friend will join I in send his regard to Father Gerry , as will all Members . I be very glad to have take that intervention . I agree that prison chaplain , prison priest , prison vicar and prison imam — we have an excellent imam at the Scrubs — be in many way unsung hero , do a fantastic job alongside the other staff . I be afraid that often the problem be the MOJ itself , which be seemingly always one of the first Government Departments to offer itself up as soon as the Chancellor of the day mention cut . I think its budget be now 12 % low than it be in 2010 . if prison do not have the staff to unlock the prison safely for a reasonable period of time , do not have the money to provide meaningful activity and do not have the resource to provide good - quality education , mental health decline , and that can have tragic consequence for prisoner and staff . I will come back to the issue of education in a moment , but I will briefly mention mental wellbeing in prison . I recently meet a lawyer who have be represent four bereaved family of prisoner from Wormwood Scrubs who take their own life . between April 2020 and February this year , there have be seven self - inflict death at the Scrubs . the pain for the family must be unimaginable , and I be sure that other prisoner and the staff who find the deceased be also struggle . any self - harm death in a prison be a potentially preventable one that deserve a rapid response to work out what go wrong and to implement learning for the future , but not one of those case have yet make it to an inquest . an inquest for one of the family be schedule for August this year , but that be over three year of wait for answer . we rightly talk a lot about the court backlog , but maybe not enough attention be pay to the coroner ' s court backlog . accord to coroner statistic for 2022 , the average time from the date of death to the conclusion of an inquest be 30 week , but it be a postcode lottery ; I think the bad case be at North Lincolnshire and Grimsby , where the wait be 72 week . one of the important outcome of inquest be often the prevention of future death report . if an institution such as Wormwood Scrubs be wait over three year for an inquest into the death of a prisoner and there be crucial learning that a coroner could uncover , how can that prison be expect to make the necessary change ? when the coroner do provide recommendation in their prevention of future death report , how do we know that public body will implement they ? I recently speak on a panel for a campaign launch by the charity Inquest , which be ask the Government to implement a national oversight mechanism . the mechanism would collate recommendation from inquest and prevention of future death report , along with the public body response , in a database . it would then analyse these response , and produce a report . finally , the mechanism could allow a follow - up procedure to check on the progress of implement change arise from the original recommendation . this sound like a sensible and not expensive approach , and one that could help to lower the number of preventable death , if recommendation become centralised and easy to follow up . I be grateful that the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , have offer to meet I and Inquest to discuss this , and I hope to hear from he soon . I realise that death in custody and death in prison be only one part of the equation , but they be an extremely important part . I want to finish by come back to education in prison , in my recent meeting with the governor at Wormwood Scrubs , she explain that individual prison have little control over their education service . the MOJ employ education provider in the Prison Service , but the quality of these provider can vary greatly from prison to prison . the governor say that she be unable to change the provider , because it have a contract with the MOJ for a number of prison . that be only one example , but I think it be typical of the disconnect and neglect that be apparent . I mention local and remand prison . these be often the old , victorian prison and those in the bad condition . the Government boast — I be not sure why — that they be on this massive prison expansion programme and put huge sum of money into new prison . however , that be not to renew the prison estate , but because of the increase in population . I urge the Minister to look at the way that some of our old prison be be run . they do a disservice not only to the people who work there and run they , as well as of course to the inmate , but to the wide community , because people be not be rehabilitate and be come out of prison insufficiently support and go back into prison very quickly . that be a recipe for disaster not only for the individual but for society as a whole , and it be an indictment of the failure of the prison system under this Government . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , who make some really interesting point about the collection of datum both in the MOJ and in prison , and the ability that give we as parliamentarian to hold to account , scrutinise and understand well what be happen in our prison and the impact that that be have , as the hon . Gentleman finish by say , on wide society . I want to pick up on a very specific element of that , which be the impact that it be have on family . I be very privileged last week to host an event in this place on behalf of my constituent Professor Jane Payler , who have carry out a two - year research project on the impact of prison sentence on the family of offender . in particular , she highlight the work of Families First , which be a Worcestershire project . one could reasonably question why I be look at Worcestershire when I very clearly represent Hampshire , but this be in fact an Open University project , lead by my constituent , to scrutinise the impact of prison sentence on the child and family of offender and what we know about that . the answer come back , sadly , that we know far too little , because at no point be there any coherent , strategic collection of datum that give we any indication of how many child prisoner may have , and therefore of how many child in wide society may need additional support because they be miss a parent . it be not just that the parent be absent ; the child be also cope with the stigma and shame of the fact that their parent — usually their father , although not in every case — be imprison . there can be a reluctance on the part of the prisoner to volunteer the information that they have child , because there be a fear that those child will then have an involvement with social service that the mother — I say mother , and I be generalise , but it be usually the mother — may well not want , and there be a fear that that could result in even more adverse outcome for the child . I be prepared to concede that in comparison with my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , I know little about this subject , and I be not an expert by a long way . what strike I instantly , however , be that today be an opportunity to raise with the Minister the importance of our improve our understanding and discourse around the impact of prison , and understand what the MOJ , and indeed the Minister , could do to improve the situation , so that there be at least some collection of this datum and we know about the number . estimate of the child impact vary wildly . we can find one estimate back in 2009 of perhaps 90 , 000 child impact , and if we extrapolate the number for the increase in the prison population we might expect that number to be in the region of 120 , 000 or 130 , 000 child now . some academic research , rely on french datum , indicate that the problem could extend to as many as 300 , 000 child who be impact by parental imprisonment . what do we know of those child ? first , we know far too little , but we do know that there be considerable problem with their emotional and mental wellbeing . we know there be considerable problem with the physical impact of a child potentially be move around the country because they be miss a parent , and the change that there may be in school . we know that such child have poor educational outcome , and that they and their family be largely forget , unseen , and impact as a result of that . we know there be a lack of holistic and tailor support for those child . we know about secondary prisonisation — I be not convinced that it be a word , but we will go with it for the time be — and that there be an impact on their mental health because of the stigma and shame that they feel . child lack an understanding of what have happen to their parent , and many be assume care responsibility that that absent parent may have . we hear from the hon . member for Hammersmith commentary on the impact that criminal behaviour can have on young people who have previously witness criminality , and in far too many instance the young person may step into the void cause by a father or parent go into prison . however , we can not access up - to - date datum , and the number of child impact be simply not record . freedom of information request to the MOJ have indicate that such datum be not in an extractable format , so even if it have be collect , we can not necessarily extract it within the cost parameter that be often use . I have one request , which I think be on quite a short list this afternoon . I think at one point that I could perhaps stand up and make a cheeky little intervention , but I could see five minute in that this request clearly could not be make in an intervention without test your patience , Mr Deputy Speaker . my request be to the MOJ : please find a mechanism whereby that datum can be record and share with those service that be in a position to support those child , whether that be local authority , or the excellent charity sector , just as we have with Families First in Worcestershire . it have work incredibly hard to ensure that such support be provide to child with , I must say , some really strike outcome . the report , which I will send to the Minister after the debate , contain heart - warm story of the difference that have be make to child when there have be intervention and they have be give support . also crucial have be the difference that such support have make to parent come out of prison ; have conversation with their child who have articulate the impact on they , which have convince their dad that the last place he ever wish to return be prison . give that I have this opportunity and few other member wish to contribute — I have plenty of time — it would be remiss of I not to raise two other issue regard the MOJ that be of concern to I . the hon . member for St Helens North ( Conor McGinn ) be no long in his place , but he raise the important point that prison should be use as a mechanism to keep we , wide society , safe from people who be dangerous . I recently meet two incredible woman , Carole Goulde and Julie Devey , who both tragically lose their daughter in domestic homicide . they have lobby long and hard for there to be a review of sentencing . they have welcome the fact that the eminent KC Clare Wade have do her review into domestic homicide sentencing , but it would be remiss of I not to use this opportunity to reiterate their call about the fact that " overkill " — a horrific and graphic term for where people , all too often woman , be murder in a frenzy by someone they may have recently be in a relationship with , or still be — still do not carry a mandatory 25 year . we need to be protect from the truly dangerous individual who abuse woman and murder their own partner . I would argue they be among the most dangerous people we can encounter . I know that the Government ' s response to the Wade review be due imminently . will my right hon . friend the Minister discuss that with the Lord Chancellor and the Minister of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , to make sure that that government response be not snuck out on the last day of term ? it would be most helpful if member have the opportunity to have time in this House — perhaps an oral statement or an urgent question the following day — to discuss what we think of the Government ' s response to the Wade review . as I say , these be among the most horrific crime , and it be important that this House be give the opportunity to debate that review in due course . I thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst , the Chair of the Select Committee , who have lead this debate and highlight his expertise in this area . I pay tribute to the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who give a comprehensive overview of what be happen on prison and probation . I be so pleased that the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) raise the issue of child . when we have the debate on imprisonment for public protection sentence , it focus on the fact that the whole family be serve the sentence and we do not give enough consideration to the implication for the family , and particularly to the support need to assist the rehabilitation of prisoner as they be release . I will declare an interest , as I be an honorary life member of the Prison Officers Association . there be no financial interest , and in fact I be tell by the POA that it do not even gain I an extra pillow in a cell if I ever need it . it be as simple as that . we have have discussion over recent month — in particular a presentation in the Jubilee Room a few week ago , which a number of we attend — where we have be meet prison officer work on the frontline . I want to report the conversation we have have and , on their behalf , set out some of the concern they have express , which build much upon what my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) say about the state of prison . there be three message that prison officer want to get across . the first be that the austerity Budgets have take so much from the Prison Service over the past decade that prison officer have leave the system . it can only be describe as be in crisis , and that be not just put prisoner and prison officer at risk but put the public at risk of dangerous reoffending . the second message be that Ministers need to understand that they can not run prison on the cheap . it require investment , particularly in staffing , to ensure safe , secure and purposeful regime . the third message , which the Chair of the Select Committee have raise and which I will come back to , be that prison officer want the Minister to know that they be feed up . Morale be at an all - time low , and it be develop into real anger at how they have be treat . to give one quote , they feel like they be " disposable commodity " to be " work to the bone " and then discard . they be vote with their foot to leave the service . Mention have be make of the budget cut that have take place over the year and how we have arrive at this situation . to give one statistic , at one point at the height of austerity after 2010 , the Prison Service see a 30 % cut in overall expenditure . as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith have say , the figure be still 12 % below what it be in 2010 . alongside that , we have have a number of fairly disastrous privatisation experiment — those have not just be in probation , but in the maintenance of the prison themselves . what happen in the first year of austerity be startling . in the early - 2010 , a quarter of the operational workforce be lay off , and a crisis of violence be unleash . have lay so many staff off , we also get into a vicious downward spiral of insufficient staff and increase violence , and therefore problem with retention . recruitment drive simply fail to resolve the situation . on one estimate , during that period we lose 100 , 000 year of professional experience build up over decade . as a result of that , exactly as have be say , prison be fearful place with prisoner - on - prisoner assault and assault on staff , which have soar , so prison officer and support staff be leave in drove . we have hear some of the statistic . Mark Fairhurst , the POA national chair , present evidence to the Justice Committee , where he explain , just as my hon . friend do , that many leave " within the first two year " . he say : " we be at the high attrition rate that the service have ever see . we be currently run at 16 % for prison officer and 19 % for operational support grade . some area of the country have see attrition rate of between 35 % and 45 % . " the Chair of the Select Committee mention the survey of how prison officer be feel . exactly as he say , half of those survey do not feel safe at work and 80 % say that staff morale at their establishment be bad . when we talk to officer at some establishment , they tell we that it have collapse completely . many have a lack of confidence in the future . it be also raise with we in conversation that the number of prison officer suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder be rise and at critical level . serve and ex - prison officer receive little support for pstd , and it have an overwhelming impact on their life . it be unfortunately become almost accept as the norm that prison officer will have to go through that . Mark Fairhurst tell the Committee : " there be no support if you have mental health problem . more and more of my member be get diagnose with PTSD , because of the trauma that they deal with and the thing they see . there be no mental health support on site for those staff . they be leave the job with ill health or capability retirement , so there be no support there for mental health . " this be one of his most startling statement : " we have come across scenario in some jail where the most experienced member of staff on that same wing have nine month in the job . it be the blind lead the blind . " to try to give we an understanding of what that mean , he say : " when you have inexperienced staff deal with experienced prisoner who have be in and out of prison all their life , it have a massive knock - on effect on stability . " spend during the first five year of austerity fall by 20 % . that be why , as have be say , with spending level cut so dramatically over a period , it be hard for prison officer to fully comprehend why £ 4 billion be be spend on build a new generation of prison to boost capacity when our exist prison have become mired in squalor — that be the description use — and , accord to the Public Accounts Committee only two year ago , there be a £ 1 billion backlog of work need to be do . prison be violent place . we have , at time , reach catastrophic level of violence . it need to be acknowledge — not to accept that it will continue — that violence be part and parcel of prison life . prisoner officer can not understand that the Government will not even include level of violence in their new key performance indicator for prison . my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) introduce a private member ' s Bill in the last session — the Prisons ( Violence ) Bill . we urge parliamentarian to support it to enable that sort of monitor to be part and parcel of the performance indicator , so that the Government could develop a full strategy . the POA have join , as a found member , the Joint Unions in Prison Alliance , alongside the other union and work with the Prison Service . it fully support the Safe inside campaign to reduce violence in prison . it be especially concerned about what it describe as the " ultra - violence " in the youth custody estate . it warn that an urgent review be need of the protection that prison officer need when work in that estate . it come back to investment . the POA also say : " dangerous , squalid jail … make rehabilitation impossible . prisoner be release more criminalised , more traumatised , more addicted to drug than when they arrive . this be madness and should be completely unacceptable in a civilised society . prison be often the good chance that state have to turn someone ' s life around , whether through education or treatment , but we ' re do the opposite — we ' re make they bad . " the POA have reach such a state of frustration that it be call for a royal commission . I believe that be one of the proposal consider by the Conservative party before the last election . a royal commission should examine the problem in our justice system from end to end , to try to tackle imprisonment , incarceration and , more importantly , rehabilitation and , as other hon . member have say , to look at prevent crime and prevent people reach imprisonment . the POA want to raise clearly what have happen on pay and on retirement age . on pay , the union welcome the Government ' s increase in early starter ' pay , but be concerned about recent statement from the Government about not honour the pay review reward in future . nothing will undermine morale more . when there be an independent assessment of pay , the POA be not allow to take industrial action like other union , and therefore have to rely on the pay review body . that the Government say they will not honour those recommendation be utterly defeat when prison be seek to recruit and retain . the POA have make it clear time and again that it believe that a pension age of 68 be unacceptable for the physical job that prisoner officer undertake . it would welcome the Government return to the negotiating table on retirement age , which they walk away from in 2016 after the POA reject the offer to reduce retirement age . those negotiation need to be reopen , because 68 be too late . I have try to give some understanding of what prison officer be go through at the moment . they ask straightforward question : what happen to the conservative party ' s commitment and pledge of a royal commission on criminal justice ? will the Minister bring back those proposal ? will he commit to invest the resource , especially in staffing , that be need to save the system from the current crisis ? will he look to improve workforce morale and retention by look again at the issue of pay , term and condition , and the pension age , which be currently threaten ? the final issue they want to draw attention to be the fact that there need to be a clear programme to reduce prison violence , ensure there be sufficient support for prison staff so that they can perform their professional job without risk to their life and limb . I thank the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , for speak so persuasively , as always , on these incredibly important issue . our prison and probation service do vital work to deliver justice , rehabilitate offender and protect the public , but sadly , after 13 year of Tory neglect , they be break : judge be be tell to jail few people because our prison be full ; no prison be rate as good for rehabilitation and release planning ; and one murder every week be commit by criminal out on probation . it be hard to separate that decline performance from the cut face by the Ministry of Justice . even a former Tory Prisons Minister recently declare that they go too far . but with what scarce resource be leave , we continue to see incompetence : £ 1 million spend on maintain closed prison ; £ 98 million waste on avoidable mistake on a new tagging programme ; and an estimate work backlog on the prison estate of £ 1 billion . when I visit prison , I see at first hand overcrowded crumble estate blight by staff shortage . last year , I visit Wandsworth prison , where inmate be lock in their cell for up to 23 hour a day . while I be there , I meet two prisoner who have job as prison cleaner . they say that in the dilapidated and run - down wing , pigeon mess create most of their work . they tell I that they consider themselves lucky , as their role as cleaner mean that both of they get to be out of their cell for around three hour a day . they explain that come the afternoon the smell of drug in the wing be overwhelming , as prisoner use they out of boredom without fear of consequence . while there , I see a library staff by some passionate librarian , but there be no prisoner there . it be completely empty , because there be no available staff to move the man across the prison . I see room set up for training , include opportunity for inmate to gain qualification in skill such as dry lining . again , they be not be use for the same reason . that be hardly surprising , give that prison staff have be leave in drove . since 2010 , over 100 , 000 year of cumulative prison officer experience have be lose , leave wing to be manage by small , less experienced team . as a consequence , violence against staff be up by 165 % . apart from the impact that staff turnover have on the running of prison , it also have a devastating impact on the public purse . it cost £ 13 , 000 to recruit and train a prison officer , yet one quarter of officer leave within a year of take up the role . why ? because under this Government be a prison officer be no long consider a vocation . instead , it be often just a stepping stone to move into less dangerous , more lucrative work . one thing that the Government could do tomorrow to improve retention would be to give prison governor a say over who they recruit . currently , they do not as they have no role on interview panel for new recruit . that would be an important step in get a good fit for their prison , but it be an opportunity that be be miss . the same go for procurement . if a governor want to buy good for a prison , they have to go through the approve Ministry of Justice supplier . now , there be an obvious security need here , but the system would seem to be beset by delay and huge cost inefficiency . at Wandsworth , the new governor tell I she need a new screen for their office to conduct Zoom meeting on . it take week to arrive , and the exact same screen be available from Argos to be deliver the next day , and it be cheap . when I visit Leeds Prison , staff there say that they want to procure some wood to make raise flowerbed for one of their rehabilitation project . timber from the approve supplier cost three time as much as the amount quote by the local timber merchant . those saving could have be make . when I visit HMP Styal , one of the house unit have just be renovate : that consist of new window , an alarm system and a basic refurbishment . use the approved supplier cost just under £ 12 million , which seem far out of step with the work require . I strongly urge the Government to look into this issue , as it seem that there be a potential for huge saving and efficiency — as well as the opportunity to build link between prison and local business , which could provide a path towards collaboration and post - release employment . in 2021 the Government commit more than £ 500 million to work and skill reform in prison , to improve employment rate post release . two year on , however , the probation inspectorate have find that just 8 % of those available for work go into employment upon release . when classroom remain empty , access to library be limited and inmate be lock in their cell for 23 hour a day , how can we be surprised when prisoner , who have have no intervention and no opportunity to learn anything new , leave and reoffend ? moreover , the effect of this be cost the taxpayer £ 18 billion a year . cut reoffende have to be an absolute priority , but in the current overcrowded , understaffed condition , prison be little more than college of crime . since 2015 , the Government have repeatedly announce plan to build new jail and increase capacity , but in the last 10 year they have close nearly 3 , 200 place , and three new prison that be plan will not open until 2027 at the early . an internal Ministry of Justice memo publish in June state that even if all prison building target be meet , there would be a shortfall of 2 , 300 place by March 2025 . Overcrowding be already have a detrimental effect on condition and the daily prison regime . last month the chief inspector of prison inspect HMP Pentonville , which be originally design to hold 520 man . today it hold more than 1 , 000 . how can rehabilitation take place in these condition ? it be just more evidence of a failure to get a grip of our justice system . the fact that little or no rehabilitative work be be do in prison be make it even hard for probation officer to do their job . when I speak to they , they tell I that what they long for be to be able to do their job properly , but case load be simply unmanageable . officer be have to prioritise paperwork and database instead of spend proper time with the people they supervise . under Labour , probation be a well - regard service , but this Government ' s ill - conceive part - privatisation wreak havoc on the service and cause a mass exodus of experienced staff . in total , these reform cost half a billion pound , and they leave the public at great risk from offender because the work be often reduce to a tick - box exercise . what be the result ? between 2014 and 2019 , during the privatisation year , the number of serious further offence conviction increase by more than a third , and the number of serious offender on probation find guilty of murder increase by 123 % . the service have rightly reunify now , but the huge organisational change , the staff exodus and the vast sum waste on privatisation mean that probation be on its knee . today only one local service have receive a good report , and in December the vacancy rate be 29 % . these shortage and high case load be leave the public at risk . just this morning , the probation inspectorate find that only 28 % of domestic abuse offender on probation be be sufficiently assess for any risk of further domestic abuse . nearly half should have have access to an intervention such as a group programme or a one - to - one meeting with a probation officer to reduce the risk of a further offence , but that have not happen . in nearly 75 % of case , significant change such as move in with a partner , alter child protection plan or a partner become pregnant be not be adequately review or reassess . all the above failure in probation have cause judge to lose confidence in community sentence , mean offender who should be eligible for they be be send to overcrowded prison instead . last year I visit a community payback scheme in my constituency where those on unpaid work be help to maintain a community play space , which without they probably would have close . they all , without exception , speak with pride about do work of value and have the opportunity to learn new skill . it show just what can be achieve , but these scheme be patchy and the use of community sentence have more than halve under the Tories despite the clear benefit when they work effectively . we need to look at how probation can be deliver as an effective local service . labour would begin to do that by create a system of community and victim payback board to strengthen community and victim involvement in sentencing . under those board , local people and victim of crime will have a say in decide what unpaid work offender must undertake . rather than get to grip with those issue , the Government be currently restructure probation via the one hmpps plan . I really hope they will take seriously the concern raise by the sector and the finding from the damn inspection report . funding need to be channel to frontline officer , not the bureaucratic layer of organisation above they . that be the only way to reduce the burden they face and ensure they can give proper time and attention to those they supervise . their inability to do this because of fail Tory reform have mean that , on average , there have be six serious further offence conviction every week since 2010 , include for murder , kidnap and rape . we have have 11 Justice Secretaries and 13 Prisons Ministers in the last 13 year , so it be no wonder that the system be in crisis . they be never in post long enough to get to grip with the issue , to take responsibility for their spending and be hold accountable , or to set a long - term strategy and ensure stability . no wonder the service be stick lurch from one crisis to the next when that be exactly what be happen in its political leadership . if we be to fix that , we need continuity at the top . we need stable management that deliver a proper plan for prison and probation , instead of rehash announcement and gimmick , and we need leadership that be laser - focused on reduce waste , drive efficiency and cut reoffende . the Tories have have 13 year to deliver that , and they have fail . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , for his opening remark and , more broadly , for secure this important debate on this estimate day . I thank everybody who have contribute to the debate . there can be no high purpose for a Government than protect the public from the devastating consequence of crime and maintain a criminal justice system in which people have confidence . we have honour our manifesto commitment to recruit 20 , 000 additional police officer and , through the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , we have introduce tough penalty for the most serious crime and remove automatic halfway release of the most violent and sexual offender so that the bad criminal be lock up for long . we be build new state - of - the - art prison that will not only give effect to the order of the court to take criminal off our street , but properly rehabilitate they so that they turn their back on crime for good . that way , we can break the destructive cycle of offend that cost the taxpayer £ 18 billion a year and have an incalculable personal cost to the victim and community blight by it . the PCSC Act also bring in well monitor and more effective community sentence , which be just mention by the hon . member for Lewisham West and Penge ( Ellie Reeves ) . they punish offender , tackle the underlie driver of offend and support people who want to turn their life around . those measure include tough and more flexible electronically monitor curfew . we aim to almost double the number of defendant and offender tag at any one time to reach 25 , 000 by March 2025 . we have recruit more than 50 new health and justice co - ordinator , who will cover every probation region and work with health partner so that offender get the right treatment to stay on the straight and narrow . that will be underpin by regular drug testing to monitor compliance . we be invest up to £ 93 million in community payback to drive up the hour of unpaid work do by offender , so that they visibly pay their debt to society for the damage they have do . we be achieve our vision to cut the youth custodial population , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst . roughly 3 , 000 child and young people be in custody in 2008 - 09 ; as of April this year , the number have fall to around 600 . it be also important to note that , in line with our female offender strategy , between 2018 and 2021 , the average female prison population fall by 17 % . our £ 100 million security investment programme to reduce crime inside prison , include stem the flow of illicit item such as drug , mobile phone and weapon , be complete in March 2022 . enhance gate security — include 659 staff , 154 drug dog and over 200 piece of equipment — have be deploy to 42 high - risk prison site that routinely search staff and visitor . we now have 97 x - ray body scanner cover the entire closed male estate and they have record more than 28 , 000 positive indication . to date , 89 prison have complete their roll - out of PAVA synthetic pepper spray to stop violent prisoner in their track and we have introduce 13 , 000 new generation body - wear video camera across the estate , with networked , cloud - base technology . these important investment rightly underpin our focus on the safety of staff and other in prison . link to that , we need prison to be a place where offender overcome addiction , which be why we be roll out abstinence - focus drug recovery wing and increase the number of dedicated , incentivise substance - free living unit across the estate , where prisoner commit to regular drug test in return for incentive such as more gym time . alongside safety and security in prison , we must invest in education and employment if we be to cut crime sustainably . we know that , if a prisoner can hold down a steady job , it reduce their chance of reoffende by up to nine percentage point , which be why we be drive forward initiative to help prisoner to secure job on release , include through prison employment lead to match prisoner to job and employment advisory board to build link between prison and local industry , and to ensure that the skill be teach in prison align with what be demand and require in the local labour market . I agree that we need to go far on education . the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) speak about the Shannon Trust and I pay tribute to its work . I confirm that we be extend what we do with the literacy innovation fund across 15 prison . there be also a much sharp understanding of neurodiversity in our prison population , and I be pleased that we will have neurodiversity support manager across the estate by January 2024 . I be also excited about the prospect of the first secure school , which we will be do in partnership with the Oasis Trust . it be a different approach from those in youth custody , far elevate the role of education . ensure proper support be on offer beyond the prison gate be also crucial if we be to help offender stay on the straight and narrow , so we be improve pre - release planning and continuity of care . we want to ensure that no one supervise by probation be release from prison homeless . our new transitional accommodation scheme — community accommodation service tier 3 , so below the level of bail hostel — help we to deliver on that commitment . it be initially deliver in five probation region in 2021 , but our investment be expand to operate across all of England and Wales by April 2024 . we be also invest in pre - release team , which have be embed in 67 prison and provide an important interface for commission rehabilitative service that help ex - prisoner with accommodation , personal wellbeing , employment , training and education . to improve continuity of care for prison leaver with substance misuse or wide health issue , we be recruit more than 50 health and justice co - ordinator with responsibility for ensure more join - up support between prison , probation and healthcare treatment service . where appropriate , alcohol monitoring on licence be available . small thing that the rest of we can take for grant can make all the difference , for good or ill . that be why we have introduce resettlement passport , set up ahead of release , to bring together the essential that offender need in one place : bank account , cv and the identification people need to prove the right to work and to rent a flat . we have also support the Offenders ( Day of Release from Detention ) Act 2023 , which recently receive Royal Assent , have start out as a private Member ' s Bill . it will enable offender at risk of reoffende to be release up to two day early , to avoid what can be the hectic rush of try to get round different service on a Friday . my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ask specifically about magistrate ' sentence power . give the time , I should not talk about that in great detail now . we have have a chance to talk about it in the Select Committee . on his specific question about work with the judiciary , we be work with the Judicial Office as part of the review we be undertake on the change and plan to engage magistrate on it . we should have complete that review by the autumn . my hon . friend and other rightly ask about capacity , the role of Operation Safeguard and other short - term capacity measure , as well as the long - term capital programme . since October 2022 , we have see an acute and exceptional rise in the prison population . Operation Safeguard be a temporary measure to provide a short - term solution to that acute rise in demand . he ask how much of that capacity have be use . the answer be that it go up and down ; it be a facility to be draw on as need . the average over the period be really quite low , but there be day when its usage be great . stand it up have provide we with vital extra short - term resilience as we develop far that long - term capital programme . as of April , we have invest £ 1 . 3 billion in capital towards the delivery of the 20 , 000 additional , modern prison place to which my hon . Friend refer . by the end of June , about 5 , 400 of those place have be add to the estate . that include the two new 1 , 700 - place prison , hmp Five Wells and Fosse Way , with the latter have accept its first prisoner at the end of May . I be grateful to the Minister for that update . those who have be to five Wells and Fosse Way recognise what an advance they be in design and facility . will he give we a specific update on where we be in the stall planning process on the other three prison , which be still stick in the system ? when be we likely to get those move forward ? as my hon . friend well know — he be previously a lead light in ministerial office , deal with local government — we do not control the planning process . I be therefore not in a position to give he a bang - up - to - date update , except to say that those three project remain part of our plan . overall , this be a complex capital programme and we need to deal with external factor , include work through the planning process . perhaps the Minister could write to I and the Select Committee to set out where we be with those project . have they go to appeal yet ? if so , have any indication be give as to when the hearing will take place ? of course , I will be delighted to correspond in that way with my hon . friend . we be also roll out 1 , 000 rapid deployment cell across the estate . the first three site , hmp Norwich , Wymott and Hollesley Bay , be now accept prisoner , and the majority of the 1 , 000 additional place will be deliver this year . we be undertake major refurbishment at site include hmp Birmingham , Liverpool and Norwich , deliver about 800 cell between they . the wing - by - wing refurbishment at HMP Liverpool will see every cell renovate . construction have also start on new house block at hmp Stocken , Hatfield , Sudbury and Rye Hill , which will add around 850 place between they . HMP Millsike , the new prison of some 1 , 500 place by HMP full Sutton , will open in 2025 . our new prison have a laser - sharp focus on rehabilitation , with workshop and cutting - edge technology that put education , training and job front and centre , so every prisoner get the right opportunity to turn over a new leaf . like many , or most , workforce , the Prison Service have experience recruitment and retention challenge at a time of very low unemployment . ensure our service be sufficiently resource and that we retain level of experience be fundamental for deliver quality outcome . that be why we be target the driver of staff attrition and take step to improve recruitment , alongside a wide agenda of development in the workforce . we welcome the Justice Committee ' s important inquiry into the prison operational workforce and we have work closely with the Committee to provide evidence . we be now closely consider the survey of prison staff , and I reaffirm that we take the issue of the morale and safety of staff with the great gravity . Prison staff do incredible work and , so often , be the hidden hero of our justice system and society . in every prison I have visit , their dedication and drive be clear to see . we fund a range of service to support staff wellbee , which include care team in public sector prison that be train to provide support to any member of staff involve in an incident at work . we be committed to make sure our prison staff feel safe , support and value , and we look forward to receive the Committee ' s full report and recommendation in due course . the 2022 - 23 prison staff pay award be announce in July 2022 . it represent a significant investment in the workforce . alongside an increase in base pay of at least 4 % for all staff between band 2 and 11 , we target far pay rise for our low - pay staff of up to £ 3 , 000 . the probation service be in its second year of a multi - year pay deal for staff . salary value of all pay band will increase each year , target at key operational grade to improve what have be a challenging recruitment and retention position . the pay increase differ for different job role , but to provide an example , probation officer will see their starting salary rise from around £ 30 , 200 in 2021 - 22 to a little over £ 35 , 000 by 2024 - 25 . let I respond briefly to some of the individual point make by colleague during the debate . the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) ask about crowd in prison . the most recent statistic show crowd at 20 . 6 % in the estate ; by way of comparison , in 2009 , that figure be 25 . 3 % . my near neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , raise the horrific crime of overkill . I have hear what she say and I will pass on those point within the Department . I commend the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) for his close association and work with the Prison Officers Association . I confirm that I will continue to look forward to speak with the Prison Officers Association and other staff body throughout the Prison and Probation Service . he be right to identify the centrality of safety and security in people ' s experience of work . I reassure he that we measure those thing centrally through the key performance indicator that we have in prison . multiple Members rightly talk about rehabilitation . specifically on the question about education provider ask by the hon . member for Hammersmith , it be true that there be four education provider contract to provide education service through the prison system . however , there be also a flexible fund that enable individual governor to draw down fund to make supplementary provision in certain way . it be important that we get a blend — that we be able to respond to local condition and the specific of a prison population , and have some commonality in the provision and in the qualification study . will the Minister give way on that point ? I be sorry , but I think that I might be start to stretch Mr Deputy Speaker ' s patience . I will be happy to follow up with the hon . Gentleman separately if he would like to do so as an alternative . my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North talk , quite rightly , about the impact on family . that work in both direction — the effect on the child and what can be an adverse childhood experience , and the effect on the prisoner . then there be the importance of have family time and family support , and the difference that that can make on release . I pay tribute to Lord Farmer for the work that he have do in that area . we have do some work on improve the maintenance of family tie , but I bring here today the good news that we be work on some data - link in order to understand the extent and nature of these issue more closely . we know overall that the effort of our dedicated staff be work . the proportion of prison leaver in employment six month after release have more than double in the two year to March 2023 , from 14 % to more than 30 % . since 2010 , the overall reoffende rate have decrease from 31 . 6 % to 24 . 4 % . as of February 2023 , our transitional accommodation service have support more than 5 , 000 prison leaver who would otherwise have be homeless across the initial five region . of course , there be still a huge amount more to do , but it be clear that we be make significant and important progress . the Government will always value and invest in his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service . our prison must be and will be a safe place in which to work , where staff be provide with the right support , the training and the tool to empower they to do their job . I look forward to a continued dialogue on this matter with the Committee and other beyond this debate and the report . in closing , let I repeat my gratitude to my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst for secure the debate , and to all who have contribute today . I commend the estimate to the House . the final brief word go to Sir Robert Neill . I be very grateful to all who have take part in this important and valuable debate . I just wish more people have be here to hear it , but I hope that they will read at least some of what be say , because the issue raise by hon . member on both side of the House be important . they include the condition of prison , and the issue raise by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) on the legitimate concern of the staff in our prison , which should not be ignore . the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) about family be also critical . I , too , look forward to the report of the Wade review . there be positive thing happen and there be positive suggestion from both Front - Bench team . in some way , we should try to find a more consensual approach to some issue of prison policy , because to put it right will require an approach that will span the lifetime of more than one Parliament . it be an important challenge , and I be grateful for the time for this debate today . question defer until tomorrow at seven o ' clock ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . woman and Equalities Committee I call Sir Bill Wiggin to move the motion on behalf of the Committee of Selection . I beg to move , that Dr Jamie Wallis be discharge from the Women and Equalities Committee and Lia Nici be add . I believe that I have until 7 o ' clock this evening , so I have a few word to say . [ laughter . ] I be hope for a collective groan from SNP Members . [ hon . member : " Groan ! " ] thank you . I will , if I may , adapt a quote from Winnie Ewing , " stop the speech , Scotland want to get on " . I shall leave it at that . question put and agree to . Winnie Ewing Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) here we be , just come up to 4 . 50 pm on Tuesday afternoon . if I reflect back on the time that our dear friend and colleague Winnie Ewing be in this place , quite often Parliament could be sit to 2 am , 4 be or even 7 am . if she be here today , I can only begin to think what she would make of it . I be sure my much - miss colleague would be say , " what a shamble this place be that it can not conduct its business in a way that allow for timely discharge of event . Doesn ' t this show to those of we on the SNP side that Westminster have nothing to say to the people of Scotland ? Doesn ' t it just suggest that it be about time that Scotland complete its journey to independence ? " we do the task that Winnie Ewing set for we : our job be not to come here and to settle down , but to settle up for the people of Scotland . I be grateful for the opportunity to celebrate the remarkable achievement of Winifred Margaret Ewing . Winnie be elect to this House first for the seat of Hamilton in a by - election in 1967 , then for Moray in 1974 , when she unseat the then Tory Secretary of State for Scotland . not only do Winnie serve in this House , but she be elect to the European Parliament as well as to the Scottish Parliament . the fact that she serve in three legislature make she unique as a scottish politician . however , it be not the accomplishment of that electoral record that make Winnie unique . as our colleague from the 1974 intake , George Reid , say : " occasionally , just very occasionally , a person emerge from the murk of daily life with the vision and determination to change thing for good , to set the country on a different path . that be Winnie . " that be Winnie — George be absolutely right about that . when the Hamilton by - election take place on 2 November 1967 , the voter of Hamilton change the political landscape of Scotland . they change the history of Scotland . when Winnie emerge from the count that night , she do indeed utter the immortal word : " stop the world , Scotland want to get on . " Winnie light a spark that night and the fire from that spark have shine brightly ever since . my right hon . friend mention that very famous Hamilton by - election , but there be another , just before Hamilton , that set Scotland on the path : the Glasgow Pollok by - election , in which the SNP candidate be the great George Leslie , who we also lose fairly recently . it go to show , do it not , that we on these Benches stand on the shoulder of giant ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention , because he be so right . with our colleague in Edinburgh deliver government for the people of Scotland in our Parliament , we have the task of complete that journey to independence , but at a time like this it be right that we pay tribute to those who have go before . the Scottish National party be form in 1934 through the merger of two political party , the National Party of Scotland , form in 1928 , and the Scottish ( Self - Government ) party . my goodness , to think of some of the people who have the courage to give their life to shape Scotland ' s future at that point , we do indeed stand on the shoulder of giant . there be so many to mention . we think of John MacCormick , two of whose son become parliamentarian — Neil MacCormick in the European Parliament , and Iain MacCormick in this place . we think of giant such as Robert Bontine Cunninghame Graham , a remarkable individual who be a Member of this House . he be elect as a Liberal in Lanarkshire in 1886 — although I believe he never formally take the Liberal Whip — then stand as an independent and then become the first president of the Independent Labour party . like so many , however , he be on a political journey and become the first president of the Scottish National party . he be also very well know in Argentina as a rancher and an accomplished novelist . I tell that story because of the spark of genius in those who form the movement at that time , in the like of Compton Mackenzie . we talk about by - election , and I will come on to the 1960 . I remind the very few conservative politician who be here that we have until 7 . 30 pm , so they should stick with we — [ interruption . ] go on , smile . you might learn something . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? if the hon . Gentleman would bear with I , there be plenty of time . let we just settle down . in think about those by - election in the 1960 , as well as talk about George Leslie , we should also think of the like of Billy Wolfe in West Lothian in the early 1960 . that journey gather a sense of momentum , and that momentum really spark into life with Winnie ' s success in Hamilton in 1967 . I go back , if I may , to the 1935 Midlothian by - election . my own grandfather and his two brother become member of the SNP in that period . by - election have be important for the SNP in fulfil the promise that it have . will the right hon . Gentleman give way on political journey ? this will be quite a political journey ! it will be . may I first congratulate the right hon . gentleman on secure the debate ? he and I speak early . not many people in this House will know that Winnie Ewing and Dr Paisley be good friend from the European Parliament and have a good relationship . quite clearly , one be commit to Unionism and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , while the other be commit to independence , but that do not in any way inhibit their relationship . although Mrs Ewing and I have very different view on Unionism , I much admire her courage , advocacy , passion and desire for her country . her nickname in Brussels translate to " Mrs Scotland " — a legacy to be proud of . her advice of " stand your ground " apply to many of we in politic , myself include . it be a timeless motto not simply for generation of scot , but for their very proud Ulster Scots cousin in Northern Ireland . I be so grateful to my hon . friend , if I may refer to he in that way . People should listen to his wise word . it be worth reflect on the fact that those of we on these Benches have a passion and commitment . we want to see Scotland become an independent country , but , as we often say , the debate about our country ' s future ought to be one of mutual respect . of course , we understand that there be other tradition , but we all have a responsibility to extend the hand of friendship , as Winnie Ewing do . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) talk about the relationship that she have with the Reverend Ian Paisley . I be aware of that relationship , but she also have one with John Hume . those in Brussels at that time would often see the three of they in conversation — and , indeed , at more social occasion as well , if I may refer to they in that way . it be important that , when we talk to people externally , we give the message that we be here in this place to stand up for our constituent — and , in our case , to stand up for our country — but that we have no personal animosity towards those on the other side . those who serve with Winnie , whether in this place in Westminster , or , like some on the SNP Benches , in the Scottish Parliament , know that she always look out for new member or young member in particular . in the end , the way in which someone comport themselves be important in that regard . Winnie be a shine light and an example to we all . rise — rise — I will give way first to my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Dr Whitford ) . obviously , we be celebrate Winnie as an absolute icon of the Scottish National party and of Scotland , but we need to remember that she be also a woman and a mother . we send the condolence of everyone on these Benches , and of the whole House , to Fergus , Annabelle and Terry . I be very grateful , because that be important . the sense of grief that they will all be feel from the loss of their mother will be very different from our experience . we have fantastic memory of Winnie , as so many of we be lucky to spend time with she . it be right that we reflect on all that . my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire talk about thinking of Winnie as a woman . let we quickly reflect on that and think about the circumstance for a woman come to this House in 1967 , when it be not that common . it be not just that a woman come to this House in 1967 , but that she come here on her own to represent her constituent as the only SNP politician in this place . quite frankly , the experience that she have be utterly disgraceful in the main — the misogyny that she face . I will pay credit to Harold Wilson , who be a friend of hers , but the experience that she have in this place be absolutely unspeakable . when we think about where we be , we think about the Scottish Parliament be re - establish in 1999 and the SNP go into Government , and I often reflect on those who have drive our movement . we have speak about be on the shoulder of giant , but for I , there be two people in particular who we owe an enormous debt of gratitude : one be Winnie , and the other be Margo MacDonald , who win the Govan by - election in 1973 . as someone who be a teenager in the 1970 , what drive I into the SNP be the leadership of those two people . by goodness , we be so blessed by the leadership , drive , ambition , intelligence , wit , sophistication and glamour that both those woman present themselves with . what fantastic leader and role model they be for Scotland ! rise — speak of role model . but not of glamour ! no , certainly not . my right hon . friend mention the wit that we get from Winnie and Margo , and one of the great thing about Winnie be that her wicked sense of humour be as often as not turn on herself . if I can give one brief example , when I stand in the 2008 Glenrothes by - election , Winnie do a lot of campaigning , just by go for cup of coffee in place and talk to people . she come into the campaign room double up with laughter once , because a woman have spot she and drag she 12 - year - old daughter across the road to meet this legend of scottish politic . the wee girl say that she know who Winnie be because she be learn about she in school . now , Winnie be a lawyer — she should have know that you do not ask a question if you do not know the answer . she say to the wee girl , " you must be do modern study , then " , and the wee girl say , " no , history . " well , indeed : that be a typical Winnie story . the only thing that I could reflect on beyond that be the description of anyone go for a cup of coffee with Winnie . in all the year and decade that I have know she , I have never know anyone go for a cup of coffee with she — an irish coffee , perhaps . since the issue of by - election have be mention , it be probably worth reflect that many of we be by - election candidate , include my hon . friend and myself . I stand in Paisley in 1997 . and by - election winner . and winner — from Airdrie more recently . what use to happen be that Winnie Ewing would turn up and assist you for the last few day of the campaign . she be your minder — in my case , she actually replace Nicola , who have be my minder for most of the campaign . for those who have not experience it , it really be something to behold , because it be not normal political campaigning , certainly when it get to the evening . in my case , we do a tour of the pub of Paisley . as someone who be relatively modest , shy and retire , it be quite remarkable to see Madame É cosse work the table , and to be welcome by everybody and have discussion about political life . since we be on the subject and we have time , I remember that on election day , we be in a particular inn in Paisley — member can probably think of the one I mean . Winnie say , " let ' s get a dram " , and I have to say to she , " Winnie , I ' m the candidate " , but I relent and have one . she want to buy a second one , and I say , " come on , not today . I ' m the candidate ; let ' s miss that . " the point of tell that story be the spirit and warmth of the individual . it be an absolute pleasure to spend time in her company . I be glad to say that I become a very good friend to Madame É cosse — to Winnie Ewing . she would come up and spend some time with we in Skye . she be fantastic company . will my right hon . friend give way ? one second , then I will . you say that 15 minute ago ! well , I recall go to visit she when she be in the Quarriers home in my hon . friend ' s constituency , I believe . I go with a fellow parliamentarian , a colleague of our from the Scottish Parliament , Colin Campbell . Colin have make the fateful error of phone the nursing home as we be leave his house to say that we would be there in a few minute . the upshot of that be that rather than our go to visit she in the nursing home , there she be at the door with her coat on and her handbag . as we go in , the remark be , " right , boy , where be we go ? " the expectation be that we would be take she out to a place where we could have some relaxation and entertainment , if I can put it that way . there be two link to I there . Colin Campbell be my history teacher when I be at school . [ hon . member : " not modern study ? " ] no , history . I also have the great privilege of Winnie be a constituent of mine when she be in that nursing home . I be the candidate in 2015 , and I get the phone call to go and meet Winnie Ewing , which be quite an experience for I , and she be incredibly generous with her time and her advice . however , a week later Winnie be not feel so good . it be come up to the election , and her family phone I to say that Winnie do not have a postal vote . so I have enormous pleasure , on election day , of take Winnie Ewing ' s ballot paper and voting for myself , which be a proud moment and something that will live with I for the rest of my day . that be a wonderful story , and know the woman as I do , I can say to my hon . friend that nothing would have give Winnie more pride than know he have do that . I remember that 2015 election with some pride in my own interaction with Winnie at that time . Winnie have send I a video address that I could use in my own election campaign , and it be not short — it be 30 minute long . [ hon . member : " the irony ! " ] well , I do say that she be my mentor . some 29 minute of that 30 - minute address be about Europe , so there be a serious point to this . Winnie study law in Glasgow , but she also go to study in the Hague . she be a scottish nationalist — from the age of nine — but she be a european and she be an internationalist . she be so proud of what the European Union have mean for Scotland . she be so proud of the role she have play as a parliamentarian and of the friendship that she have develop with her friend not just from these island , but right across Europe . there be the role Winnie Ewing play in the Lom é convention , and in bring it to Inverness , for goodness ' sake . there be the work she do in establish the Erasmus programme , which be so inspirational in provide opportunity for our young people . it be therefore not surprising that she would often talk about what the European Union have mean . there be a number of we here from the highland and island , and my goodness , how we have benefit from objective 1 status , and the person responsible for that be Winnie Ewing . think about where we be today — we have to go cap in hand to Westminster for levelling - up money and for what be in effect scrap from the table , as oppose to what be there for we as a right when Scotland and the European Community be work together in partnership . the highland and island be full of sign for project that have be finance by Europe , and that be the legacy of Madame É cosse . Michel Barnier be recently on Skye , and he post a picture of a path that have be fund by the European Union . what a difference between the spirit of generosity we have from the European Union and what we face in this place . I be very grateful to the modest , shy and retire gentleman , my right hon . friend , for give way . early , he mention Compton Mackenzie , and I think it be worth remember that Compton Mackenzie , who be bury in my native island — he be a founder of the SNP in 1934 — be actually an Englishman , which say a lot about the SNP , despite what many would say . I have the great fortune during the general election of 2001 to get to know Winnie very well . I stay with she at Goodwill in Miltonduff on several occasion , and I spend many an hour , over a coffee perhaps , with her late husband Stewart , and I look back fondly on that . I remember one time go to the Black Isle show — the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) smile — and we sit down with some farmer . I be the candidate , and I think , " this meeting with the farmer at the Black Isle show have to go well " , but Winnie sit down and tell they , " well , if we be independent now , guy , you wouldn ' t be suffer the problem with BSE , would you ? " I think that " I tell you so " start to it would absolutely torpedo our meeting , but it do not , because Winnie Ewing have style and she have the respect of the people , and it be take that way . they know the truth of what she be say and do not take it badly , and the meeting progress really well . of course , we know that Winnie Ewing have leave we not just the great political legacy we be stand on , but her own child , two tremendous Scottish National party msp , Fergus Ewing and Annabelle Ewing . we extend our condolence to they as well as to Terry , and to her grandchild . indeed , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention . Winnie be elect to the European Parliament in June 1979 . I remember it . no you don ' t ! I do . I be eight year old . well , not many of we be active in scottish politic at that time . I be a teenager — let ' s be brutal — and in fact , the first election I vote in be that ' 79 european election . the general election of 1979 be not our fine hour . it be , if I may say so , a temporary setback for the Scottish National party . we lose some ground and perhaps be not in the good of fettle . in that european election — I remember it well — there be not many expectation that the SNP be go to win any seat in the European Parliament . indeed , it be forecast that the Liberal Democrats be more likely to take the Highlands and Islands seat . but what a night that be , when Winnie Ewing win the Highlands and Islands for the SNP . we hear story about Winnie Ewing ' s interaction with the farmer , and the same would have be true if we be talk about fishing people , crofter , those work in the industrial community in Fort William , and so on and so forth . one thing about Winnie be that she work for her constituent . I remember , when the pulp mill be close in Fort William , the way that she pick up the phone to every newspaper proprietor up and down the land to try to get business for that pulp and paper mill . the legacy of the work she do , build relationship right across the Highlands and Islands , be that she increase her majority in every election that she fight as a European MP . what a role model she be for we , as someone who believe in our political philosophy , and someone who be ultimately a first - class parliamentarian . my wife ' s family move into the Hamilton constituency while Winnie be the MP there , and they often talk about the success that she have get a phone instal for they in the 1960 . Winnie do that casework , and she come to visit they and make sure that she do her job as the local MP . I say for those on the government Benches that I be on page 1 of my speech , but I will make some progress over the next while , don ' t worry . [ interruption . ] I be in my introduction ; actually , it be the pr é cis . Winnie be a trailblazer for those of we who sit on the SNP Benches , but we would do well constantly to remind ourselves of her word from 1974 when , in response to Harold Wilson ask she how she be settle in , she respond : " I ' m not here to settle in . I ' m here to settle up " for Scotland . let we remind ourselves on these Benches that that be exactly the job that we be expect to do . when we talk about the memory of those who bring we here , and about what Winnie want with scottish independence , it be not for we , or for past generation that have till the soil . it be for those who will follow we and for future generation , so that Scotland can become the country it can be — a prosperous , greener , fair country that allow our human capital to flourish . that would be an appropriate legacy for Winnie , our dear friend and colleague . who be Winnie ? she be bear and bring up in Glasgow . she attend Glasgow University as well as the Hague Academy of International Law . she be a scottish nationalist from the young age of nine . a nationalist , but also a european and an internationalist , as I say early — perspective that be to shape much of her political life . like many who make this journey , she come from a Labour support family . her father George have be a member of the Independent Labour party , and it be only after her father ' s death that Winnie learn that he have join the SNP in July 1967 , month before the Hamilton by - election . so many in the Labour party would make that journey towards the SNP — her family make it in the 1970 . it be a pity that no one from the Labour party be here to hear this speech and join the journey that so many in Scotland have already make . that phrase , " stop the world , Scotland want to get on " , encapsulate so much of Winnie ' s outlook — that desire for Scotland to achieve its potential ; to get on and be the good that we could be . there be no well ambassador for Scotland in Europe than Winnie . she have a focus determination to put Scotland on the map at home and internationally . although she serve with distinction , leave her mark in Westminster and Europe , that opportunity to serve in the Scottish Parliament bring her particular pleasure . when Winnie be elect to the Scottish Parliament in 1999 , it be a culmination of a drive to restore nationhood to Scotland that have drive she since first be elect to Westminster in 1967 . it be a journey of 32 year that bring the re - establishment of the Scottish Parliament . how fitting it be that Winnie preside over the opening session of the Scottish Parliament , when she proclaim that " the Scottish Parliament , which adjourn on 25 March 1707 , be hereby reconvene . " — [ Scottish Parliament Official Report , 12 May 1999 ; c . 5 . ] there be that long journey to Scotland establish a Parliament , and it be open by the MSP who be so inspirational in drive forward the process of achieve that Parliament be a recognition of the determination and leadership she have show since that breakthrough in Hamilton in 1967 . Scotland have get on . Winnie be on her own as an MP in her first Parliament , although she be support by her Plaid Cymru friend , Gwynfor Evans . those would be challenge time for she , with the open hostility often show in this place . how different her experience would be when she return to this place in 1974 as the Member for Moray and Nairn and ultimately as a member of the SNP ' s first 11 . in many respect , it be a challenging Parliament . George Reid , sadly now the only survive member of that group , remark of a group meeting when Winnie say : " look , if we don ' t hang together , we ' ll hang apart . " as be often the case with Winnie , it be sage advice , as apt for all of we today as it be then . after Westminster come Europe , as we have discuss , and the success that Winnie have there . before she depart Westminster , she happily take up a number of issue . in her maiden speech in 1967 , in a debate on the age of majority , she say : " there be moral and intellectual reason why it be good sense to make people responsible at the age of 18 if not soon — and I mean fully responsible in every sense of the word . they be become less inclined to follow their parent ' way of thinking and they be more able to earn . they have see the world on the television screen , and the visual be more compelling than read . they have a very good understanding of what the world be all about . there be a revival of interest in politic . I be sorry that the Report do not talk about vote at 18 , because that be in the mind of everyone who consider this matter , but if we go as far as the Report recommend , then vote at 18 may well be the logical next step . I be absolutely on the side of youth . I would remind the House that even if we give the vote at 18 , the average age at which the first vote be cast be 21 , and if we give the vote at 21 , then the average age at which it be first cast be 23 . Mr . Pitt be a good Prime Minister , so it be say , and he be only 23 , so that today presumably he might not even have have a vote and could not have be Prime Minister . " — [ Official Report , 20 November 1967 ; Vol . 754 , c . 980 . ] I be tell that story because this be a woman who recognise the importance of lower the voting age at that time in the 1970 . if we then think about our referendum in 2014 , the Scottish Parliament legislate to make sure that 16 and 17 - year - old get the vote . I know that Winnie be particularly proud of the fact that our young people — those who be go to be part of Scotland ' s story — be give that opportunity . I will close with some reflection on the referendum day in 2014 and Winnie ' s remark when she be interview at her home by Hugh MacDonald — incidentally , he be the son of one of the two man who hoist she aloft after the Hamilton by - election . perhaps sense that our cause would not be win that day , she maintain her optimism that the process of independence be go in only one direction . she say : " I have never have any doubt that Scotland will be independent . none . this be still hopeful Thursday for the Yes campaign . I be not daft . I know this be on a knife edge , but this can not be stop . it be a movement . it be a process . " my dearly depart friend and colleague be exactly right . I want to make my closing remark to my colleague on the SNP Benches about the responsibility that we have . if we think about what we have endure over the course of the last few year since the financial crisis of 2008 , the United Kingdom have be in reverse . we have have a decade of decline in living standard , with our people be hold in poverty . our responsibility be to have the vision , the energy , the drive and the leadership so that we can show people in Scotland that it do not have to be this way . I will reflect for a moment on a book write by a chap call Anderson at Aberdeen University , in which he graphically show that Scotland ' s population in the United Kingdom on a relative basis have decline in every decade since the 1850 . that be a matter of fact . it be not about blame anyone else but about what happen within the status quo . People often talk about the deficit that Scotland have , but an important factor that have to be bear in mind be that that be the deficit within the context of the United Kingdom . in many respect we have miss the opportunity of North sea oil . where be the legacy of the £ 350 billion - plus harvest in tax revenue from that resource ? it be go . but , friend , we will not make the same mistake a second time . what Scotland be face now be an enormous opportunity from green energy , not just in provide energy for we but in provide leadership in the global economy . the Skilling report , which we as a group publish last year , demonstrate that Scotland have the potential to increase its green energy output fivefold . let we think about the opportunity for we if we can capture that supply chain : it be about create a green industrial future , drive that investment into the scottish economy , drive up productivity , drive up living standard and deliver the tax receipt that will be necessary to invest in health , education , transport and every other area of social policy in Scotland . look at our academic community , look at the excellence and leadership that we have in world - lead university in Scotland , and think about the opportunity from put that to work , develop the start - up and spin - out of the new industry of the future and not be hold back by a United Kingdom that have turn its back on Europe , send our economy into decline , lose opportunity and strike 4 % off our gdp through the foolhardiness of Brexit . the challenge for we be to say to people , " yes , there be a well way ; there be a way that Winnie Ewing would want we to take . " it be about show how we would deliver that prosperity , and put that in the context of the cost of living crisis , where so many of our people be in fuel poverty — my goodness — in a country rich in energy resource . that be the price that we pay for be part of this Union . as we face that election next year , and the opportunity of remove the Tories from power , it be not about remove the Tories in one election ; it be about remove the Tories from Scotland for good , because Scotland become an independent country . that would be a legacy for Winnie Ewing . like the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who have just leave the Chamber , I come from a different political tradition , but for four year , between 1999 and 2003 , I have the privilege and pleasure of serve with Winnie Ewing in the Scottish Parliament . I would like to make a few remark from a personal angle . as some member present know , my parent be small farmer . my father be a small dairy farmer in Easter Ross . in the late ' 60 , he and my mother establish a small cheese business , which my brother still run today — enough of the family advert . in the late ' 60 , they venture south of the border and take a stand at the food fair at Olympia . my mum and dad write to all the scottish mps in this place and ask they to come and visit the stand and taste the cheese . only one take up the invitation : Winnie Ewing . my parent never forget that . it mean a huge amount to they . I do not know Winnie at that stage — I be still at school . later , my father die , too young . the letter that Winnie write to my mother be remarkable . I have it yet ; it be a treasured letter that I will never part with , and I trust my child and grandchild never will either . it mean so much to my mother . this lady transcend party politic . she cut right through to ordinary folk in Scotland . that be a tremendous and rare strength , to which I pay tribute . in 1999 I appear , as green as grass , in Holyrood . there be the great lady herself . from the word go she show nothing but friendship to I . where my party tend to drink in Deacon Brodie ' s , Dr Ewing of Goodwill in Miltonduff rather prefer the Jolly Judge , far up towards the castle . but many be the happy , small refreshment that I have with Winnie Ewing . we enjoy each other ' s company enormously . I think , too , of the Durness highland game in north - west Sutherland , where Winnie be a regular — and she be very fondly receive by the local folk , I can tell you . she be much love , and they be really charm that she come to the game as often as she do . again , it be a great pleasure to have a small dram with Winnie at the game . one evening , in fact , we maybe have one too many , and Winnie decide that I be her favourite Liberal . I be extremely worried because I think that might totally destroy my career , so I make sure that all copy of the Northern Times that refer to that be suppress and never come anywhere near here . I take that as a great compliment . it be mean very kindly indeed . when the word come out that she have leave we , I happen to be in north - west Sutherland at the time . People say , " oh , dash it ; she ' s away — what a shame . " when people say that kind of thing about someone who have leave we , it be mean ever so genuinely . if my parent be alive today , they would be very sad that Winnie be no long with we . I be very sad that she be no long with we . as I say , she transcend party politic ; she be way above that . it be an enormous privilege to have know she . her hard - work attitude and sincere approach be something to behold . I mourn she today . we mourn she today . I would add two thing . first , the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) refer to she as Madame É cosse . I be the member of my party who once have to go on the telly and explain why she have win such a huge victory in the highland . it be a testing event for I , but I come from the school of hard knock . secondly , I imagine that a great number of people in Europe , include present and former member of the European Parliament , will mourn her passing . can there be any great epitaph ? I doubt it . I be very grateful for this opportunity to pay tribute , on behalf of Plaid Cymru , to the late Winnie Ewing and to send my condolence to the family , particularly Annabelle , who be a very value Member of this House when I start in 2001 . I think she leave we in 2005 . much have already be say about the inspirational contribution Winnie Ewing make to scottish and european politic . I could add to that , but I just want to note our appreciation in Wales of her contribution , in particular of course her breakthrough election in the Hamilton seat . I be a teenager at the time — you would not think so , be such a young lad — and completely obsess with politic . Gwynfor Evans have be elect to the Carmarthen seat in 1966 , just before Winnie Ewing . we have also have some near miss . as we have some time , and for the interest of the House , I will mention that , in Rhondda West , we come within 1 , 000 vote of beat the Labour party . they be much more colourful time back then . our candidate Vic davy would drive around the valley perch on the back of a big red dragon , which be load on to a flatbe lorry , get his message to the people . it be a complicated message , I have to concede , but he know how to do it . then , in Caerphilly , the much miss Phil Williams , who many people here will remember , again come close to beat the labour candidate . perhaps the most interesting one , if I can just go off on a slight tangent and diversion , which would be of interest to Labour Members , be they here , be s . o . davy , who , in 1970 , be the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil . he be allegedly 82 but probably quite a bit old and Labour decide to deselect he , so he decide to stand as an independent . this be a message for the Labour party : he stand as an independent and trounce the very lacklustre trade union official the Labour party have parachute in . interestingly , he be then offer the freedom of Merthyr Tydfil but turn it down , say that the support of the people of Merthyr Tydfil be quite enough for he , thank you very much . they be much more colourful time . as a young person in 1967 and 1968 , the old world seem to be die and the new world be be bear — not struggle to be bear , but be bear — before our eye . as with S . o . davy , some people from the old world show we the way a bit . and that be when we have the Hamilton by - election to spur we on . at the time , I do not think one could overestimate the inspirational quality of Winnie Ewing ' s victory . join Gwynfor Evans , it seem that the tide be with we . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) say , this place can be very dispiriting . I know how much Gwynfor Evans , as the lone voice of Welsh nationalism , appreciate and welcome Winnie Ewing ' s arrival , which herald a fruitful partnership between our two party that have exist ever since . just for the hon . Gentleman ' s knowledge , in the many time I spend with Winnie Ewing , she mention Gwynfor Evans frequently . I thank my hon . friend for that point . some people around I may be able to see this very interesting picture , which be of Winnie Ewing and Gwynfor Evans together at an advanced age sit in the sunshine on a bench outside Gwynfor ' s house chatting and laugh . I think Winnie be slightly disappointed that the glass be empty . [ laughter . ] there have be a very fruitful partnership between our two party and that be establish a long time ago . may that long continue . true to the path that Winnie Ewing and Gwynfor Evans establish over 50 year ago , may we , as my right hon . friend the Member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber say , never forget that we be here not to settle down but to settle up . that be an inspirational statement . I be now of an age when the old saw , " they don ' t make they like that any more " begin to ring true ; I tend to think that as well . so may I say about Winnie Ewing sincerely , " thank you , " but also , " they don ' t make they like that any more . " hear , hear . I could not have fail to take advantage of the opportunity to speak in a debate entitle " Winnie Ewing " and to add just a few recollection of my time with Winnie , because it be a very special time . indeed , I think that what have come across in the tribute that we have hear over the past couple of week be how much people enjoy and appreciate be in her company . she have that special ability to make people feel not just welcome and glad to be with she , but proud to be with she . spend time with she be something quite special . I spend a lot of time with she and I want to share a couple of story about that . there be one day that I will never forget . I be elect in the same year as my hon . friend the Member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) , back in 2001 . one of the proud moment of my life occur when I be make my maiden speech , from roughly where I be stand now , because over in that Box , the Under - Gallery , sit Winnie Ewing . I keep glance over to she , and she keep give I that encourage smile that I be sure everyone remember . however , as you probably suspect , Mr Deputy Speaker , she be not there just to hear my eloquence . her daughter Annabelle be to make her maiden speech the next day , but Winnie be determined to come along and hear all the other new member of Parliament make their maiden speech . that be the sort of person she be : she be here to give we solid support and encouragement . I remember go down to the Strangers Bar with Winnie , as we would inevitably end up do . on the Terrace , she say , " your speech be quite good , Pete — the content be quite good — but you be go to have to learn to speak a bit more slowly , and you be go to have to wear well suit . " I leave it to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , to decide whether I meet the standard that be set by Winnie Ewing . in 2001 , the year I be elect , Winnie be a serve Member of the Scottish Parliament . she regularly come up to Perthshire and to Angus , the seat I be contest at that point . it be always Winnie people want to speak to . I have think myself to be a reasonably exotic candidate , come from a rock music background , but she be the real rock star : it be Winnie people want to speak to on the doorstep , and she always have time to speak to everybody . I also remember the 2005 campaign , because I run it , and Winnie be there for all the new candidate . I recall she be particularly thrilled that my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Angus Brendan MacNeil ) be a candidate and have a real prospect of win the seat . Winnie be so proud and pleased about his victory — although I do not know about the rest of we ! — because she think it very special for he to win back the Western Isles after her good friend Donnie Stewart have hold it for such a long time . I know how much she appreciate my hon . friend ' s election . there be one other thing about Winnie Ewing , and I be go to try to set this right over the next couple of week . Winnie be a fantastic singer , and I have the pleasure of record she for a cd that I be commission to make as vice - convener for fundraise for the party back in the 1990 . rather foolishly , I decide that I would record a few of the personality in the Scottish National party — with mixed result , it must be say , but one performance stand out , and that be Winnie ' s . I remember she wander into the recording studio like a rock star , straight to the mike , for the first take of " will Ye no ' come back again ? " , the great poem by Lady Nairne , and she sing it so beautifully . I find a version of the CD which I will share with my colleague , and I will make sure it be put online . that be a thing that Winnie be always able to do : to give a song , to take part , and to be prepared to do everything else . I have not be on the SNP ' s national executive committee for some year , but Winnie and I run the election committee that be responsible for vet candidate for the Scottish Parliament . I will spare his blush , but someone we vet be in the vicinity of the Chamber today , and we have a long conversation about his suitability . I think that Winnie win the day , and he be now our Minister for independence in the Scottish Parliament . we have such a great time on that panel . Winnie , Fiona Hyslop and I be give responsibility for vetting candidate , and I think we get most of they right , but we definitely get that one right . there be so many great memory ; there be so many fantastic time with Winnie . she light up a room . she be a great friend . she be a mentor and a total and utter inspiration for all of we in the Scottish National party . I be so proud and please that I spend some of my parliamentary time as a colleague of Winnie , albeit in different Parliaments , and that I have that time to get to know she and to call she a friend in what we be do . she will always be a massive figure in this party . I know that everybody say we will not see she like again , but we will not . it be hard to believe that somebody of her stature will emerge in the theatre of scottish politic for a long time . I know how much my colleague be hurt and grieve the loss of Winnie Ewing and I know that this parting have be hard , but what a life . what a contribution . what a legend Winnie Ewing be , and we will miss she dearly . I welcome the opportunity to pay tribute to Winnie Ewing in this House today . I want to start by thank the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) for secure the debate , and I also want to express my deep sympathy to Winnie ' s family , particularly Fergus Ewing MSP and Annabelle Ewing MSP , alongside whom I work during my time as a member of the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh . although our politic could not be more different , I recognise the enormous contribution that Winnie Ewing make to public life in Scotland . the excellent contribution we have hear this evening from member on both side of the House be testament to her extraordinary life of public service . her place in the history of scottish politic , go back nearly six decade , be secure and very well deserve . as other have already note , Winnie Ewing serve twice as a Member of Parliament : for Hamilton , after her famous by - election victory in 1967 until 1970 , and for Moray and Nairn between 1974 and 1979 . she be also a member of the European Parliament for two decade from 1979 , earn her unofficial title as Madame É cosse . from 1999 to 2003 , she serve as a member of the Scottish Parliament . as we have hear already , her word at the opening of the new Parliament have go down in scottish history . it be truly a remarkable record of service , with more than 30 year in total as an elect politician . as member have highlight , Winnie Ewing be also a dedicated servant to her party as president of the SNP for 18 year from 1987 . I thank the Minister for give way and for his very generous opening remark . it be also worth put on the record that Winnie ' s late husband Stewart be a councillor in the Summerston area of Glasgow , which I currently represent in this place . Winnie , her husband and her child have between they represent Scotland and the people of Scotland at every conceivable level , which really be a tremendous legacy . I echo the condolence pay to all those who survive she and her family . I be grateful for that point . I think it be fair to say that the family be a bit of a dynasty in scottish politic . all those date of her term in office and the various Parliaments tell only a fraction of the Winnie Ewing story . we have be remind very clearly this evening how she approach politic with intelligence , warmth and wit . I want to pick up on a couple of point make in the debate . the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Dr Whitford ) make a very important point that Winnie ' s family be grieve and we should not forget that . a number of member speak of Winnie ' s humour and wit , and we hear about her passion for Europe . personal family memory be share by the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) , as well as memory of the friendship that Winnie offer and , clearly , very fond memory of the Jolly Judge pub in Edinburgh at the top of the Royal Mile , which be one of my favourite pub as well . the hon . member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) pay tribute from a Welsh perspective and the hon . member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) speak of memory of Winnie during his maiden speech as well as her various contribution to the SNP campaigning machine . Winnie Ewing bring a win combination of charisma and commitment to everything she do throughout her long and distinguished career . member have reflect on her by - election victory in Hamilton and what that mean to her party and the constitutional ambition of the Scottish National party to break up the United Kingdom . as I say , our political view on such matter be and remain very different , but I think we can all agree on the huge significance , back in 1967 , of the arrival at Westminster of a young and dynamic scotswoman . her drive up in a Scottish - build Hillman Imp to the sound of bagpipe set the tone . she be here to make an impact , and there be no doubt that be what she do . there be no doubt that Winnie Ewing be a trailblazer and a strong role model whose high profile make it easy for other woman on all side to follow in her footstep . Parliament be a much well place today for the example she set more than half a century ago . Winnie Ewing be an inspiration to many , and her voice be truly unique . since her pass be announce last week , we have hear numerous tribute in news report and obituary , in speech at Holyrood and now here today . we have hear many warm and fitting word from across Parliament to remember Winnie and to celebrate her life . I hope Fergus and Annabelle Ewing and her whole family will take comfort from that . Winnie Ewing be a truly legendary politician who serve Scotland both in this place and in Europe . Hers be a full life of public service , and a full life well live . rest in peace . question put and agree to . House adjourn .