Speaker ' s statement on Monday , I officially open the Constituency Garden of Remembrance in New Palace Yard . I thank those of you who have already plant Remembrance tribute . for those who have not yet do so , you , or a member of your team , be welcome to plant a Remembrance tribute before 4 pm on Thursday . at 1 pm today there will be a wreath - lay service at the Recording Angel Memorial under the stain - glass window at the St Stephen ' s Entrance end of Westminster Hall . this be the main memorial to member and staff of both Houses , include police officer , who die in both world war . all be welcome to attend . I also draw to the House ' s attention the retirement of Peter Barratt , who serve the House of Commons for more than 32 year , include 10 year as the Speaker ' s Assistant Secretary and eight year as the Speaker ' s Secretary . his commitment , loyalty and professionalism will be miss , and I would like to thank he personally for everything he do during his time here . I be sure that the whole House will agree with I when I say that we wish he all the very good for the future . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] Pakistan : evacuation of Afghans ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary if she will make a statement on the evacuation of Afghans from Pakistan . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . the Government have react decisively and swiftly to relocate people to safety in the United Kingdom follow the collapse of Afghanistan the year before last . the UK Government remain committed to relocate eligible Afghans and their family under the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , and we will continue to honour that promise . the Government ' s policy , rightly , be to ensure that eligible afghan family have secure accommodation in the UK before travel be facilitate for their relocation . we want to give they the good possible start to their new life , to provide the good value for money for the taxpayer , and to ensure Afghans be integrate into UK society in the good manner available . however , development in the region have impact our security assessment and previous assumption . that have lead to the Government ' s remove the need for settle accommodation for individual eligible under ARAP prior to relocation to the United Kingdom . the safety and security of ARAP - eligible Afghans have always be of paramount importance and we make no apology at all for change the policy to react to the change context . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Ministry of Defence continue to work to ensure that eligible individual under the ARAP and the ACR scheme be support in Pakistan . the safety and security of ARAP and ACRS - eligible Afghans be paramount in our mind . the MOD continue to monitor the security assessment in that country , but follow this cross - Government decision the Prime Minister have ask I to co - ordinate across Government to support the MOD in develop a new relocation plan for ARAP - eligible person . as member know , previously the policy be that only those who have secure accommodation in the United Kingdom would travel to the United Kingdom . we be change that policy as a result of change condition on the ground . the MOD have work hard to stand up a total of more than 700 service family accommodation for mixed purpose , or transitory and settle accommodation . I pay tribute to the Minister for Armed Forces , my right hon . friend the Member for Wells ( James Heappey ) , for his work on that . our new plan will see approximately 2 , 800 ARAP - entitle personnel move from Pakistan to the United Kingdom by the end of December 2023 . entitle personnel may move straight into settle accommodation on the MOD . where service family accommodation be unavailable , family will move into transitional accommodation as a first step . where SFA be not suit to the need of ARAP - entitle personnel , alternative accommodation will be procure . this Prime Minister and this Government be determined to see through our commitment to those who serve with the UK force in Afghanistan . I commend this statement to the House . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . I be afraid that the Minister ' s answer give no reassurance whatsoever to constituent who have contact I in a state of extreme panic over the last few week . member have have no information on what be currently happen . it have be clear for some time that Pakistan aim to expel Afghans , who go there for safety , back to Afghanistan . I have be try to get clarity on how many people there be in Pakistan to whom we have a duty and an obligation , and who be wait for the UK Government simply to process their paperwork so that they can leave and come to their family here in the UK . I have not have those answer from the Minister . one constituent contact I whose sister and her five child have be threaten with imprisonment in Pakistan if they do not leave . her other family member — her parent , her brother and her cousin — have be return to Afghanistan , and she can not contact they . she do not know where they be or what have happen to they . give that they flee from the Taliban in the first place , she be terrify for they . she have be give very unclear advice by UK official in Pakistan on what exactly they be entitle to and whether they will be able to get on a flight at all . another constituent , a gentleman , contact I on 25 October after see the news that there will be charter flight from Pakistan carry Afghans who have be process . he have be try to get answer on the status of his family , include whether they have a valid application , whether they can get on a plane and whether they can come to safety with he . he be stick there with his family at the fall of Afghanistan , and he be extremely distressed about the situation . again , I have be ask question of various Departments and have have no answer whatsoever . what advice should I give to my constituent ? there have be no update to mps , despite there be report in the news of charter flight and of people come . we have also hear on the news that people in Islamabad — people who be entitle — have be warn by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to hide indoor . the british high commission have apparently warn people in hotel in Islamabad not to go outside due to the risk of arrest and deportation , so who be eligible for these charter flight ? be it people on the ARAP and ACRS scheme , people with valid family reunion paperwork or people who be still wait for their paperwork to be do ? we do not know , and I have family in my constituency with four of five member who have be process and one who have be leave behind . can the Minister tell we exactly how many people in Pakistan be wait for the UK Government to process their paperwork so that they can finally come to safety ? we have a duty to these Afghans , and we be fail they yet again . I must be completely clear to the House that this be not an issue of delay paperwork . Afghanistan collapse , and the UK conduct Operation Pitting to retrieve Afghans from Kabul and bring they to the UK . they go into hotel accommodation because we do not have enough housing . that be the right thing to do at the time . since then , it have become clear that it be entirely unsuitable for these family to be in hotel accommodation for long period of time . they be therefore hold in Pakistan , and rightly so . the situation in Pakistan have now change , and we will now accelerate the process and get they into SFA accommodation in the UK so that we meet our duty . I do not want to see anybody detain or deport from Pakistan if they be entitle to be in the United Kingdom , and I will work to achieve that outcome . I caution against spread rumour of thing that I be not see on the ground . it be an extremely challenging environment but , ultimately , we have a commitment to these people and I be determined to see it through . on the afghan population in hotel , I have hear the same question , demand and allegation that we would not be successful before , but we be . I hear the hon . Lady ' s question , but the situation have change . we have now change our response , and we will relocate these people back to the United Kingdom . it be reassuring to hear that this be not a paperwork issue , because it have now be more than two year since the fateful airlift . it be also particularly problematic to find accommodation for afghan family because they tend to be large family and the accommodation be not available . I be more worried about the change of policy in Pakistan and the influence on and within the Pakistani Government . what conversation be minister have with the Pakistani Government about the aid we pay to Pakistan , some of which be to cover the many afghan refugee who flee into Pakistan , to keep they safe and out of danger until we can take those to whom we have a duty ? surely that should be a subject of conversation with the Pakistani Government . my hon . friend be right that those conversation be paramount in our mind , give the shift in policy from the Pakistani Government towards Afghans . we be drive through protection for those to whom we have a duty , where they have be approve to come to the UK . we must ensure that we continue our exist agreement with Pakistan , and the Foreign Office be work hard to do that . now that we have an accelerated plan , I hope that those in Pakistan who be eligible to be in the UK be protect from any of those policy , that we look after they and that we bring they back to the UK , as have be our promise from the start . I call the shadow Minister . we owe many Afghans a debt of gratitude for support british aim in Afghanistan . in the summer and autumn of 2021 , the UK Government rightly promise to honour that debt by offer those Afghans resettlement in the UK . however , the Government ' s Operation Warm welcome fast become " Operation Cold Shoulder " . of those Afghans who make it to Britain , 8 , 000 be cram into hotel over a two - year period . they be then evict , without consultation with local authority , leave many afghan family face homelessness this winter . bad , the Prime Minister last November personally give instruction to Ministers that no more flight should be charter from Pakistan to bring Afghans who have a right to resettlement here to the UK , despite more than 3 , 000 afghan refugee be stick in hotel in Pakistan , when the British Government have promise those very individual refuge in the UK through the ARAP and acr . keep those loyal - to - Britain Afghans in limbo be shameful enough , but even more disgracefully the Prime Minister change tack only when the Pakistani Government start threaten to send those loyal - to - Britain Afghans back to Afghanistan to meet their fate at the hand of the Taliban . in short , the Government of Pakistan have strong - armed our weak Prime Minister into deliver something that it be our duty as a country to deliver in the first place . that be a truly shameful and humiliating state of affair . what we now need to know from the Minister be : how many flight have he charter ? when will they be run from and until ? what assurance have he receive from the Pakistani Government that they will extend the deadline for Afghans who be to be expel back into Afghanistan until after all the UK flight have be complete ? be the Government aware of any case of Afghans eligible under ARAP or acr who have be forcibly return to Afghanistan from Pakistan ? if so , what step be the Government take to bring those people to safety as a matter of urgency ? finally , what progress have he make on clear the record high asylum backlog and secure accommodation for these Afghans , whom we desperately need to get out of Pakistan as rapidly and urgently as possible ? it be hard to take the hon . Gentleman seriously when he come out with statement that be demonstrably untrue ; I know that he would not want to mislead the House , but he mention engage local authority and I literally drive round engage they . as he well know , this stuff be not correct . have serve in Afghanistan and , during the summer , have drive round every hotel to visit Afghans personally to ensure that none of they sleep homeless and that we see through our duty , I will take no lesson from anybody about how we feel towards this afghan cohort . clearly , I will not go into the detail of which flight be take off when . this Prime Minister and this Government be clear that as the situation have change we be seek to get guarantee from the Pakistan Government that those entitle to be here will not be deport from that country . if that do happen , the hon . Gentleman will be able to recall I to this House and I will have fail , but that be not go to happen . this be much like my promise on homelessness ; he spend the entire summer say that something would come to fruition but , again , it never do . on this side of the House we have to govern in the real space , where we deal with operational decision on a daily basis ; we can not whip ourselves into a lather to try to score point off some of the poor people in the world . we be determined to see through our commitment to the people of Afghanistan and I look forward to his work with I in that pursuit . the situation with Pakistan expel more than 1 . 5 million afghan people from its border be deeply worrying . I be glad that the Veterans Minister be here today and be go to focus on the very small number of people who may be entitle to come to the UK — it will be just a few thousand . many hundred of thousand face the threat of need to go back into Afghanistan , into the hand of the Taliban , where the economy be in a dreadful position and the country be reel from the earthquake . these people fear for their life . what representation be the Foreign Office and our ally make to the Pakistan Government to ask they to think again ? what support be we give to those stick in a humanitarian crisis on the border ? I will be honest with my hon . right hon . friend that there be clear distinction in my role to deal with those who be in Pakistan who be entitle to be in the United Kingdom . wide Pakistan engagement be a job for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , which be busily engage in that . my priority be to ensure that those who be entitle to be in the UK — those who have be approve to come to the United Kingdom — be not subject to wide Pakistan policy in Afghanistan , but that wide policy be be influence by the Foreign Office , which be work on that every day . the situation have change and we be reconfigure ourselves to deal with that , to ensure that we honour our promise to people . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . although I welcome the decision , may I say to the Minister that it would have be much well to tell the House about it in a statement rather than an urgent question ? we all know the huge pressure on accommodation in the United Kingdom and on local council , so can the Minister say what engagement have take place with local council ? what do " transitional accommodation " mean and how do it fit with the Home Office policy of not use hotel ? the policy of not use hotel be absolutely right and remain . in the summer , there be a huge effort to try to remove that barrier to settle into the United Kingdom and the policy remain . however , in extremis , that will not be a barrier to people come to the UK where they be at risk of deportation . we be go to keep those people safe . as we speak , we be work up our policy on how to ensure that we integrate this cohort , much as we do in the summer . discussion with different Departments be ongoing . when we have agree the policy , I will come to the House to share it with everybody . I hope it will be along similar line to previous policy , but it require collective agreement . we will work hard and go around the house to ensure that the afghan family who be in Pakistan but entitle to be here be give every opportunity to settle in the UK . we have a good record on this and I be determined to keep that go . as the Minister will know , it be my pleasure to work on the removal around Operation pitting with colleague from the Ministry of Defence and the fcdo . I welcome the step that the Minister have take to finally move many of those people out of hotel . it be no secret that , back in late 2021 , I express concern about just put people into hotel and hope offer of accommodation would come forward . anyone with any knowledge of housing supply know that the size of the family involve mean that would take some time , so I congratulate he on what he do this summer . will he reassure I that we be think through what would be suitable family accommodation for the people we be bring into this country , and that we will not just be stick people in hotel intend for businessman to stay in for a couple of night rather than for family to live in for month ? what type of accommodation do he have in mind for this cohort ? we will divide up the cohort . some of the family be exceptionally large and not what we be use to in this country . to deal with that , the funding be design specifically so that we could do really pioneer work , such as knock through adjoining property to create property big enough for afghan family . there be a challenge with large afghan family , but they be not the majority of the cohort . we can accommodate the majority of the cohort in service family accommodation , but where we can not do that I be hope to design scheme that will allow we to use funding in a flexible manner , to ensure that these people be accommodate correctly , in line with the promise we have make to the people of Afghanistan . there be still outstanding issue with regard to the processing of afghan case here and I want to use this occasion to make a special plea to the Minister . I have a constituent who be a former senator in Afghanistan . the processing of his case be still be delay , partly because of some problem about location that we have try to deal with . I meet he this week and I think he now have serious mental health problem as a result of the stress he be under . I will write again to the Minister and I would welcome his personal attention on this case . I say to the right hon . Gentleman and to all hon . member who have personal case to email I as I be happy to take they over . I have be bring in very recently and I will do what I can to get answer in those case . a lot of case be not simple — they be not black and white . as everybody across the House know , I will always be honest about the challenge and we will do everything that we can to look after these people . in the interest of impartiality , I will quote from the Guardian , which put the figure of Afghans currently strand in UK - fund hotel in Islamabad at 3 , 000 . indeed , accord to report , those hotel have be raid by pakistani authority . what assessment do the Minister make of that figure and of what have be happen ? furthermore , what discussion have he be have with our high commissioner in Pakistan and his opposite number in the pakistani Government ? this be a cross - Government effort , so people from the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be in contact with the high commissioner in Pakistan every day . we be well aware of this challenge . there be two separate issue here : one be the wide pakistani policy towards Afghans , which be not part of my work in this space ; and the other be that be apply to those who be entitle to be in the UK and have be pre - approve to be in the UK . it be the latter that I be concerned about . we be determined to get assurance on they and we will keep work until we do . I have already make a commitment that if a single one of they be deport back whence they come , I will have fail , but we will make sure that do not happen . I congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) on secure this urgent question , particularly as it have give we some clarity today . the Minister have talk about accommodation . what I be hear from my country contact through the all - party parliamentary group on afghan woman and girl be that the focus seem to be on family , and that only family be be evacuate . that mean that single woman , many of whom have work in politic and teaching , and those from the LGBT + community be feel particularly vulnerable , and they be most at risk of reprisal if they be deport back to Afghanistan . can the Minister clarify what be happen for those single applicant ? there be no de - prioritising of single applicant . often they be easy to reintegrate and to accommodate in the United Kingdom because they be not a wide family . there be lot of story go around the people in this cohort because they be very scared and vulnerable . obviously , the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise this with I , but that be not something that I have see . none the less , I will go back and look for it . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for Hazaras and , since the Taliban take over , Hazaras in particular face increase risk of target killing , discrimination and persecution . what specifically be the UK Government do to help the Hazaras strand in Afghanistan so that they can resettle in a third country , or indeed in the UK , and start a well life ? I completely recognise my hon . friend ' s passion in this space , but I have to be discipline about what be in my remit and what be not . that be a question for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , and I know that it be engage on that issue . the Foreign Secretary will have hear his question today . if not , I will make sure that he have see those remark and that my hon . friend get an answer . I be assume from what the Minister be say that , since this egregious change in policy , he and his colleague in Government be have regular discussion with the Government in Pakistan . during those discussion , have he and other seek any assurance that people in Pakistan who have live application to come to Britain will not be deport back to Afghanistan ? the entire strategic objective that we be try to achieve be to make sure that those who be entitle to be in the UK , who have serve with UK force , who be part of the ACRS pathway and who be part of the cohort that we be talk about be not deport back to Afghanistan . we be work night and day to get those assurance . I be determined that we will get they and that we will look after those people properly . I welcome the Minister ' s comment and the work that he have do on this topic over the past few year , but I be try to understand the resource that he have available to he . it would be helpful if he could update the House on that point . may I also ask whether any proportion of the aid budget be likely to be allocate to he for this specific issue ? at this moment , fund on this issue have not be agree . certainly , when I be do this programme in the summer and clear the hotel , the budget and resource be not a constraint . we have a bumpy start and the task be challenging , but we get there in the end : all those hotel be clear and people be put into accommodation . the Prime Minister be committed to that , and I know that we will do the same over the next few month . I have raise before in this Chamber the case of a very talented afghan man who work for the British Geological Survey , which have a base in my constituency . he flee to Pakistan with his daughter , fear for their life , but now he have lose all hope . he be accept for Pitting but do not make it to the airport , yet he have be cruelly reject for ARAP , despite have work for a Department for International Development project . he keep the british team safe in Afghanistan , and I want to know why we can not include he and his daughter in the evacuation , before he be hand over to the Taliban . to be candid with the hon . and learn Member , I be happy for she to write to I about this case , but staff and civil servant be deal every day with heartbreaking case of people who fall either side of the line , and there be no deliberate decision to exclude anybody . we be try as good we can in an incredibly difficult environment to respond to the application and ensure that those who be eligible to be in the United Kingdom be here . if that individual be eligible for the ARAP scheme , that scheme be still open and he must apply to it . I be aware that some in the 333 and 444 community in Afghanistan have be reject and they be not entirely sure why . we be re - engage in that process to ensure that it have integrity , and I be happy to look at the hon . and learn Member ' s case again . just 66 people have be resettle in the UK under ACRS pathway 2 , and eligible applicant who have the support of the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Pakistan be still wait for their paperwork to be process , include the mother and brother of a constituent of mine , a courageous female journalist who have be grant asylum . their life be at demonstrable risk from the Taliban and they now face the horror of deportation . I have write to the Home Office repeatedly about this case . they meet all the criterion . they would have a place to live if they be able to reach here . will the Minister meet I about this case to see what can be do ? sure . there be three different pathway to ACRS , and clearly some of they be large than other . the late immigration statistic show that by the end of June , 9 , 800 people have be grant settle status under ACRS . I accept that there be pathway where we could do more in this space , but the idea that we have only relocate about 60 people be not chime with the datum that I see every day . I want to ensure that everyone who be entitle to be here be here . I will go out and make the case for who be entitle and who be not , and we will do everything we can to ensure that those who be eligible be here . I be happy for the hon . member to write to I about that case , and I will look at it personally . let I try the Minister with this one , because he say that he want to ensure that no one who be entitle to be in the UK be deport . my constituent be a british citizen whose child and wife be currently in Pakistan , threaten with deportation to Afghanistan . they be invite to the Baron Hotel . an explosion mean that they be unable to get there . Mr Ullah be terrify because he work with the ally force , but because he be a UK citizen his family be not eligible under either ARAP or ACRS . family reunion visa would cost more than £ 20 , 000 . return to Afghanistan mean certain danger . he be penalise by his status as one of our citizen . in the light of his bravery and service to our armed force , will the Minister use the budget that he say be not a problem to waive those fee and bring Mr Ullah ' s family here to safety ? immigration policy in this country be very clear , and the immigration policy outside ACRS and ARAP , which be what I have be ask specifically to deal with , be a matter for the Home Office , as the hon . Member know . I recognise her question — I genuinely do — but it be a question on immigration policy for the Home Office . I will work night and day to ensure that everyone who be eligible under ARAP and ACRS be return to the United Kingdom , in line with our promise . the Minister have say a number of time that the Government have seek assurance from the pakistani authority that they will not target those Afghans who be eligible to come here . have he receive such assurance ? if not , and if he do not , what be he go to do about it ? I can confirm that I have receive verbal assurance from the pakistani authority that those individual be not go to be deport . I have to work night and day to ensure that that line be hold , and I have make it clear to this House and to the country that we do not want to see any one of they deport . as I have say to the right hon . member , and to other , I do not want to see that line cross . if it be , I will return to the House and make a statement on it . the Hazari family of my constituent , a minor bring here under the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees scheme , have have to flee Afghanistan and they have be wait and wait for their ACRS application to be process . when can they expect that to happen , and when can they expect to be bring safely to the UK ? I obviously can not comment on an individual case , but if the hon . Lady write to I today , I will personally look at her case and write back to she . I be glad that the Government be now act on Afghans who have be in limbo for a number of year in Pakistan — an issue I raise with the Minister on 19 September . may I ask about the service family accommodation that he be intend to use for those Afghans ? we know that there be a real crisis in the quality of service family accommodation , so can he guarantee that none of the service family accommodation that the Ministry of Defence be provide will have break boiler , leaky roof or black mould , which plague so much SFA that we have put our troop and their family in ? this Government have put £ 400 million of extra spending into SFA ; I recognise the problem with the quality of that SFA , which have be a challenge over many year . I do not want anybody come back into the UK and live in service family accommodation that be not suitable for they . the Ministry of Defence be bend over backwards , as be my right hon . friend the Minister for Armed Forces , to ensure that this stuff be online and suitable . investment be go in , but I be determined that individual will live in housing that be suitable for they , and I will personally be visit they to make sure that they be . I have be try to get a group of interpreter train by the University of Leeds from Pakistan to here for the last two year . it would be useful if the Minister could let I know who be eligible for the flight and how they will be contact . the Minister also say that he have visit every hotel in the country . I have a hotel in my constituency and I do not remember he inform I that he be come , but I would welcome he come to that hotel , because everybody now have to be in a share room and the facility be not good . I would be interested to learn which hotel that be , because I do not want to see people in share room , so I will speak to the hon . gentleman after this urgent question . if he write to I with the specific detail of those interpreter , I will assess his case and determine which pathway be good to apply for and their certain eligibility to do so . however , I be particularly interested in the hotel and , if that situation be ongoing today , I will sort it out . I have be contact by multiple constituent who arrive in the UK via the ARAP scheme . they be extremely worried about their relative , the hardship they have experience and the threat of danger with the recent event in Pakistan . these case range from somebody who work for the british armed force for eight year , a family member who be pregnant and have two child , and a judge who have previously imprison member of the Taliban . will the Minister agree to look at those case , and will he also say whether he have the resource to resolve these matter urgently ? I will look at every case . there be no policy decision to block those who be entitle to be in the UK from be in the UK . many of we take this personally , and we will see this duty through . of course I will look at every case and ensure that a decision be make fairly . there be individual in the Ministry of Defence who be under extreme pressure and work incredibly hard to try to meet this challenge . it be very difficult . I be more than happy to look at case again , but I do not want people to go away think that there be some blanket decision to reject these applicant and not to allow they the protection we promise then . that be categorically not the case and I be more than happy to look at individual situation . my constituent ' s parent flee Afghanistan for Pakistan . on appeal , they be grant adult dependent relative visa to join their family here , but before that decision be make , their Pakistan visa expire and they be force to return to Afghanistan . due to their be Hazaras , the fear of travel , their disability and medical need , and the policy of the Pakistan Government , they can not return to Pakistan to collect their paperwork to travel to the UK . will the Government consider issue some form of digital visa or travel document , so that they can fly to the UK and join their family here ? I be more than happy , as I have say , to look at individual case . we be deal with compete pressure here of UK visa and Pakistan visa run out , but I can only reiterate what I have say : where there be a duty to these people , we will see it through , and I will work night and day to achieve that endeavour . I thank the Minister for his answer to our question . last time , I ask he about a specific family , and we send the information through . I want to reinforce the point about the force deportation of that gentleman and his family , who be also Hazaras . in his job , he assist the British Army for seven to eight year . for 18 month , I have be endeavour to get they into the United Kingdom because of the risk of harm to they as target attack continue . just this morning , it have be report that there be an attack on a bus take people from Pakistan back into Afghanistan — it be blow up . the danger be clear — for I , anyway ; I see it very simply . this can not continue for that gentleman , his wife and their four child . we have a job for they , a house for they and a future for they . we just need the Minister ' s help . will he help I ? the hon . Gentleman have already write to I about a case , which I think we have resolve . as I say , I be more than happy to look at individual case . the eligibility criterion in these pathway be clear , and official be work hard to ensure that they be as inclusive as they can be , but I will always look at personal case and I look forward to receive an email from the hon . Gentleman . British Steel ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if she will make a statement on the announcement make by British Steel on 6 November , and provide an update on the negotiation between British Steel and the Government , and on the Government ' s position on virgin steelmaking in the UK . steel be vital to the UK economy . I fully recognise the importance of British Steel to local community , particularly in my hon . friend ' s Scunthorpe constituency , where the company be a major contributor to local economic growth , and where she campaign incredibly hard for steelworker . global condition have be tough for steel company around the world . that be why we have change the competitive landscape for British Steel and other energy - intensive industry by announce the british industry supercharger — a decisive package of measure to reduce the long - term electricity price gap that exist between UK energy - intensive industry and competitor country . that support will mean that strategically significant UK industry , such as steel , be safeguard against the high industrial electricity price that they have face in too many recent year . we have also provide over £ 730 million in energy cost relief to the steel sector since 2013 , in addition to the energy bill relief scheme . steel producer will continue to receive support until 31 March 2024 through the energy bill discount scheme . as my hon . friend be aware , the Government make an extremely generous offer of support to British Steel early this year to help it to invest in a decarbonised and sustainable future . we have continue to work intensively with British Steel since then and will continue to do so . however , she will also understand that the detail of those conversation remain highly commercially confidential and that any public discussion risk undermine talk . I know that this must be a deeply concern time for British Steel employee and other in Scunthorpe follow the company ' s announcement on Monday of its plan for future operation . I can very much assure my hon . friend that we will help affected worker and their family , and that we be committed to find solution to enable the ongoing sustainable and decarbonised production of steel . just last month , for example , we announce a £ 1 . 25 billion joint - investment package with Tata Steel to secure a decarbonised future for steelmaking in Wales . that have the potential to safeguard several thousand job across the UK . in 2020 , the Government provide an emergency loan to Celsa Steel to help it continue trade during the covid pandemic , save over 1 , 500 job , with a further 300 job create since the loan be make . I stand absolutely unapologetically with steelmaker and my community today , and I do not support these move . in this Chamber on 18 September , I ask the Minister for Industry whether she agree that we need to retain a virgin steelmaking capability in the UK for strategic reason alone . she say " obviously , we need a place for virgin steel " — [ Official Report , 18 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 1125 . ] — and that that place be Scunthorpe . that be reiterate the very same day by the Secretary of State , and so pleased be I with the comment that she make that I take contemporaneous note of that conversation . British Steel be a private company and can make business decision as it see fit , but I be clear that if it be seek hundred of million of pound of public money , the Government must leverage that money to protect steelworker ' job and maintain our sovereign capability to make steel in the UK . electric arc furnace melt scrap ; to make virgin steel from scratch , we need blast furnace . can the Minister tell the House how the UK will make virgin steel if all our blast furnace be decommission ? can she tell we how many country in the G20 be unable to make their own virgin steel ? would the Government be comfortable with we be entirely dependent on foreign import for the virgin steel we will continue to need in this country ? will any financial support offer to British Steel seek guarantee on steel job and lock in , as a minimum , an interim period of blast furnace production to allow we to explore green option to run they ? do the Government know that this announcement from British Steel be imminent ? when will I get a response to my letter of 29 September to the Secretary of State ? why do the Department not contact I until 5 pm on Monday , when I be send simply a short text message ? what support be the Minister offer our excellent North Lincolnshire Council , which be proactively work with British Steel to bring additional green job on to the site ? this Government have a good record on steel — they have pay worker ’ wage . can the Minister confirm that steel remain high on the Government ' s agenda ? I have 3 , 500 of the world ' s fine steelmaker in my constituency . it be my privilege to come out and bat for they today . thank you , Mr Speaker , for allow this urgent question . my hon . friend make lot of very credible point — there be very little for I to disagree with . she do indeed make representation at the high level of Government , and her priority have always be steelworker ; she have never play politic with that role . I put on record my apology if I have not do due diligence and provide the public service that she should have receive by be contact much soon on that particular day . there be nothing she could say that I would not be tell myself off for even more , and I hope I will not fall short in communication go forward . my hon . friend be absolutely right : I do indeed say at the Dispatch Box that my personal opinion be that there be a strong place for virgin steel production in this country , and that , of course , be in her constituency . we be in the middle of live negotiation , and any decision take by British Steel be a commercial decision . my hon . friend be also right that we be able to carry out due diligence on any support we provide ; it be taxpayer ' money , and our primary focus be to safeguard the sector and job , include in her constituency . my hon . friend be right to note that we have prioritise the UK steel sector , and we will continue to do so . we need to provide it with support as it transition , because that be also a choice be make by manufacturer , customer and consumer who be look for greener steel go forward . any decision we take and any support we provide will be to ensure that the sector be sustainable and competitive . we want the sector not just to survive , but to thrive . my hon . Friend speak about the support we have provide to the sector to date . we have provide hundred of million of pound of support to British Steel to deal with its emission , and over £ 730 million in energy cost relief to the steel sector since 2013 . we have put the supercharger in place , as well as the steel procurement policy note , which do its very good to ensure that we procure more steel here in the UK . we have provide support to Tata to ensure that that part of the country can continue to make steel and to protect those job , and we have provide support to Celsa . my hon . friend talk about the support we be provide to North Lincolnshire generally — there be a huge amount of support there . since 2018 , the Government have commit over £ 200 million in investment in the north and north - east Lincolnshire area . I can not say much more at this time because we be in the middle of live negotiation that be commercially sensitive . when British Steel put out its press release , that be the first time I see it , but we must recognise that it be a proposal ; many thing have to fall into place for such proposal to become accurate plan — not only will there be issue around planning , but our negotiation have to conclude as well . I do not doubt that I will continue to lean on my hon . friend , and that she will continue to champion steelworker in her constituency and across the country . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) for secure this urgent question , at what will be a very difficult time for her constituent . the Labour party support the transition to green steel . we recognise , as the Government have now concede , that a blend of public and private funding be necessary to do that . we believe electric arc furnace be part of the solution , but we do not believe they can be the only solution . specifically , we believe that the retention of primary or virgin steelmaking in the United Kingdom be a matter of economic necessity and of national security . while we all welcome the return of steelmaking to Redcar , which should never have be take away to begin with , this will clearly mean very significant job loss at Scunthorpe . I therefore have major concern about this announcement , come , as it do , just after the Government have confirm a deal to also close the blast furnace at Port Talbot . first , the Minister say in her answer to her hon . friend that talk be ongoing . I have to say that that be not my understanding of the current status of this deal . could she confirm that , please ? secondly , be it true that carbon capture technology could not be pursue at Scunthorpe because of delay from the Government to the necessary infrastructure over the last 13 year and uncertainty about a future business model ? in addition , be it correct to say that a DRI — direct reduce iron — solution could not go forward because of uncertainty over the Government plan for green hydrogen , which would obviously be essential for a DRI business model ? thirdly , do the Government recognise the figure of 2 , 000 job loss , and will the Minister confirm that this be the net figure cover Scunthorpe and Redcar — in other word , that once recruitment at Redcar be take into account , job loss in Scunthorpe will likely be in excess of 2 , 000 ? finally , will she confirm how much public money this announcement involve ? Most of all , I reiterate to the Minister that decarbonisation can not mean deindustrialisation ; we can not simply outsource our emission to other country , call that progress and expect public support for the transition . a real plan for green steel must be open to all technology , it must be industry - wide , and it should be a story of new job , new opportunity and british economic strength . sadly , this announcement seem very far from that . negotiation be indeed ongoing , which be why I be limited in what information I can put out in the public domain ; information be of course incredibly sensitive . British Steel will make commercial decision , but if it be hope to secure Government support , we need to make sure that we be get value for money for taxpayer . the hon . Member ask why decision have be take on the electric arc furnace compare with other technology . it be because the other technology just can not come up to speed fast enough . in particular , the hydrogen - base direct reduce iron equipment just can not enable furnace to transition at the speed at which they need to . he be very much aware of that , and this be also a challenge in Europe , not just in the UK . fundamentally , there be a number of challenge for the global steel sector . first , there be energy cost , which we have do everything we can to provide support for , with the hundred of million of pound to cover energy cost and now the supercharger . secondly , we have to ensure that we get more UK steel into the UK economy . that be why the public procurement note be incredibly important for we to do , and we will be able to secure million of pound for more UK steel project . thirdly , there be a major challenge in that advanced manufacturer , customer and consumer be look for greener steel , and a lot of company be try to reflect on how they can provide a green steel option . have say that , it be a particular kind of steel ; as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , for I that mean a mix of virgin steel in the market as well . of course , these be commercial decision , but we need to make sure there be a mix to deliver for the UK market in particular . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) talk about the environmental issue and about hydrogen . we export a lot of scrap steel , and that also have a carbon footprint , so for we to have the capacity to turn that steel into product we can use will be incredibly useful . the positive news be that we be the eighth large manufacturing country in the world . we be go to need more steel , not less , but there will also be demand for more green steel , not less , and we be try to ensure that we provide support to the steel sector so that it can meet those market need . many of my constituent work at Scunthorpe , and we be all obviously deeply concerned about they , but the whole House must be concern about the Minister ' s statement in term of our national security . there be no other major develop country in the world that be give up its traditional blast furnace — the only way we can make virgin steel . frankly , the Minister do not bother to answer a single one of the brilliant question from my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) . will she now make it clear to the House that this Government be commit , as a major economy , to go on make virgin steel ? do it now . as I have say repeatedly at the Dispatch Box , I fundamentally believe we need to have virgin steel capacity in the UK , but these be commercial decision , and negotiation be continue . these be incredibly commercial decision , and we be do our very good to support electric and virgin steel capacity in the UK . we be very much aware of the challenge we have in import steel and with the global market when it come to the price of steel , and that be why we need to make sure we have a mix . these be commercial decision , which be why negotiation be ongoing . fundamentally , the announcement by British Steel be a proposal — nothing be do yet . we be still in the middle of negotiation . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . may I begin by express my concern on behalf of the 2 , 000 worker who be likely to be affect by this announcement ? also , I re - emphasise , as other contributor have , the importance of virgin steelmaking , not just in term of security , but in meet demand in the construction industry , where inflation be already race ahead and our ability to build thing will not be help by be far away from the supply chain and reduce domestic capacity in steelmaking . the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit think - tank have say : " age blast furnace need to be replace and upgrade to produce green steel … electric arc furnace have a role in recycle steel " , but " fail to invest in modern hydrogen furnace belie the government ' s promise to invest for the long term . " just as in the oil and gas sector , what plan do the UK Government have for a just transition for the steelmaking workforce ? what support will the UK Government be give to the development of hydrogen furnace in the UK ? what challenge will they put constructively to British Steel over these plan ? give the Government ' s high - profile retreat on other climate measure , such as the date for ban the sale of internal combustion engine car , how much faith can the industry have in any guarantee that the Government do make ? negotiation be ongoing and nothing be conclude . the statement make by British Steel be a proposal , not a conclusion . the steel that come out of electric arc furnace can be use for a variety of thing , include construction and military - grade steel — it be incredibly nimble — but I fully appreciate that different type of steel be produce out of different furnace . the hon . Gentleman speak about hydrogen , and the Government have a substantial hydrogen strategy that we launch in May 2022 . the net zero hydrogen fund be worth up to £ 240 million of capital co - investment out to 2024 - 25 . that will support upscaled hydrogen production project , allow company , include steel producer , the potential to secure supply of low - cost hydrogen . ultimately , decarbonisation pathway for specific site be commercial decision for individual company base on their own operational circumstance . in the case of Port Talbot , it be about timing for use a technology that can be commercialise at scale . at the moment , for that part of the country , it be electric . Hydrogen may no doubt be the next stage of technology that be use . may I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) for her passionate support for steelmaking in her constituency ? just yesterday at the Dispatch Box , the Prime Minister say that even when we get to net zero , we will still need to have oil and gas supply . do the same logic not apply to primary steel ? we will still need that at net zero . do that logic not extend to make sure we have the capability to make primary steel in this country to supply our need in the future ? I agree on both point : first , on the incredible work that my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe do for steelworker in her constituency ; and secondly , that we can not achieve net zero without a mix of steel be manufacture in the UK . we have a booming renewable sector , whether that be solar panel , blade for offshore wind farm , or electric vehicle . much of that steel can be produce by electric arc furnace , but my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) be absolutely right that there be a space for virgin steel , too . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I be grateful to the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) for secure this urgent question . the Minister be in peril of preside over the end of primary steelmaking in this country and the curtain fall on 300 year of Britain ' s industrial history . the announcement come at a time when an analysis show that the Department ' s budget be set for a 16 % real - term cut in the year ahead . be it the policy of his Majesty ' s Government that blast furnace will stay in operation in our country and that we will not be dependent on import of primary steel ? when can we expect a conclusion to the negotiation and some safeguarding of the vital industry either at Tata or at British Steel ? I congratulate the new Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , of which I be previously a member . as I have make clear , these be commercial negotiation and they be ongoing . when the decision be take on Port Talbot , discussion have take place for several year — even decade . this will not take that long , but my point be that many minister have stand at the Dispatch Box talk about steel and do what can be do to protect and promote the steel sector in the UK . the negotiation be ongoing . British Steel ' s statement on Monday contain proposal and a plan — nothing be conclude yet . my focus , as our focus have always be , be on protect the steel sector in the UK , protect steel job in the UK and do everything we can to procure more british steel in UK manufacturing . of course , that continue . these be commercial decision about how company wish to continue their business go forward . I have make it clear that fundamentally there need to be a mix of steel produce in the UK in the steel market , but the reality be this . first , steel produce in electric arc furnace be far more nimble because of the technology , and it can be use for many more material in advanced manufacturing than previously — that be a fact . secondly , manufacturer , customer and consumer fundamentally want a clean , greener steel package . it be not just I say that at the Dispatch Box ; it be also the UK steel industry representative who have put together a net zero strategy and be talk about have clean , green steel go forward . we have a lot of scrap steel in the UK that can be recycle , and we have far more capacity to recycle that than we have for that steel to be use in UK manufacturing , but , fundamentally , we need to have a mix . I believe that that mix will continue as long as it can and should , but these be commercial decision . we continue to negotiate with British Steel . I have a simple question to put to the Minister ; I hope that I will get a yes or no answer . much of the arc furnace capacity be be move away from Scunthorpe or not put in Scunthorpe because of a lack of grid capacity . that electrical grid capacity be due to be increase . if she be to accelerate the increase to 2025 , we may save many more job in Scunthorpe . will she seek to do that ? unfortunately , there be never a simple answer to these question . access to the grid be a challenge for many industry , let alone for the steel sector . we have be do everything we can to increase access to the grid . British Steel ' s proposal — negotiation will continue — say that it have choose two site over one , with its key site at Scunthorpe and a second site at Teesside to be close to its manufacturing work . that decision have be make for many other commercial reason beyond access to the grid . Yorkshire and the Humber be one of the great centre of steelmaking — in our area , there be more than 8 , 000 job in steelmaking , the last time that be count — but how many job will be leave when the Minister have finish with her cut ? have she notice that whenever the conservative party be in government , it deindustrialise far ? unite the union — I declare an interest as a member — be say that if the Government would commit to procurement of steel for all our relevant contract , 8 , 000 further job could be create . what exactly do she make of that ? have she meet representative of the union to discuss that matter ? I meet representative of the union regularly , and I co - chair a steel council . the steel procurement policy note on increase procurement in the UK be a personal ambition of mine . previously , we do not calculate enough of the datum on what be be procure and how we could continue to secure more contract . procurement have increase , with the value of contract up by £ 97 million on the previous year . I want to go far ; that be only the starting point . early today , I be with the Minister for Defence Procurement , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , and I will continue to work to ensure that there be more UK steel in all our construction , whether rail , road , automotive , aviation or anything else . the reality be that last year it increase by £ 97 million - worth of work . I fully endorse all the comment of my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) . many hundred of my constituent work at British Steel , and I have a British Streel terminal on Immingham dock in my constituency . what assessment have the Department and the Treasury make of the impact on the local economy if the change go ahead ? the Minister talk about support for worker who may be make redundant . I have witness the decline of the fishing industry in the Grimsby - Cleethorpes area , which have rip the core out of the community , who need generation of support . what plan will the Government put in place to ensure that that happen ? first of all , negotiation be ongoing , but I fully appreciate that the statement from British Steel will be incredibly unsettling for my hon . friend ' s constituent . let I explain the way that we work on Port Talbot . we be keen to ensure that any support we provide continue to guarantee job , in consultation with local stakeholder and the union . we set aside a fund of around £ 100 million to ensure that people be reskille and redeploy . that work will continue if circumstance require it . we be anxious about job . these be highly skilled worker , recognise internationally , and these be well - pay job . that be why negotiation be sensitive and continue at pace . if we provide support , we want to get the good deal for UK steelworker . the Minister will know that Shotton steelwork rely on steel from Port Talbot . what assurance can she give on the supply of steel between the closure of the blast furnace and the installation of new electric arc furnace ? while negotiation be ongoing and support be be provide , we have a conversation to ensure that the supply chain continue to be resilient . a taskforce have be set up to ensure that supply chain continue to get support , work with the union , Tata and the local community . we have be assure that supply chain will continue to secure the contract that have be in place . support British Steel need not be just about money ; it can be about ensure that the Government be join the dot for industry and explain the pipeline of work available to it . with the Dreadnought and SSN - AUKUS programme , we have generation of need for virgin steel . the same go for the new nuclear programme . will my hon . friend confirm that the Government be do that work and signal to British Steel that the demand be there ? also , where we have control over procurement , be we ensure that we lean towards the british market ? absolutely . that be why procurement go up by £ 97 million recently . I be look at what the industry group UK Steel reflect on when it come to steel produce by electric arc furnace — the reality be that a substantial amount of speciality military - grade steel can be manufacture use electric arc furnace . we be work very closely with the steel sector to do everything we can to ensure that it secure UK contract . the Minister seem to be ignore event in south Wales last week . I meet steelworker from Llanwern last week , who understandably be deeply worried follow speculation about the closure of the blast furnace at Port Talbot . what condition be attach to the £ 500 million grant agree with Tata ? be this the agree plan ? what be the Government actually do to safeguard job ? we put in place a programme of work and a substantial sum of money — around £ 100 million — to ensure that the transition take place in a just fashion . decision will be take by the transition board — as have be mention — about provide upskille and reskille and ensure that there be assurance in the supply chain . the board be make up of the Secretary of State for Wales , the Minister for the Economy of Wales , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , who chair the all - party parliamentary group for steel and metal relate industry . those decision will be take locally and in consultation . the Government have support a coalmine in west Cumbria that will produce coke coal , which be use in steel production . do the Minister agree that it would be sensible for strategic reason — which should override commercial reason — to retain virgin steel production capacity in this country , and that from a practical perspective the coal mine in Cumbria could be use in the production of steel in Scunthorpe ? will she take into consideration the wide issue in the policy decision that she may make ? absolutely . I think all of this have make it clear to British Steel that there be a supply chain here in the UK , not only in the ability to make virgin steel but in the market afterwards , but even with electric arc furnace we still need some ability to access coal . these be decision take across many Whitehall Departments . my job , fundamentally , be to ensure that steelmaking in the UK continue at the pace that it have do and grow even far , and that we support the manufacturing sector , which require british steel . the official march of the Royal Navy include the word , " heart of oak be our ship " . in the 21st century , virgin steel be the critical industry for the Royal Navy , in the way that timber be in the 18th century . I be the first to want reduce carbon emission , but this move sound more like offshore than about reduce carbon emission . what consideration have the Government give to the supply of steel to the defence industry ? first of all , negotiation continue ; no decision have be take . have say that , the UK steel industry group , which oversee the steel sector in the UK , have make it very clear that military - grade speciality steel can be make in electric arc furnace . I have be work incredibly hard to make sure that more UK steel be procure in more UK contract , include defence contract . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) for her dog campaign in respect of steel ; she be a real champion for her constituent . this week ' s news be bittersweet , as Teesside welcome the return of steelmaking . will the Minister outline what the whole Government be do to support my hon . friend ' s constituent at this time , and what use of carbon capture and storage be be explore to ensure that we continue to produce our own virgin steel ? I of course agree with my hon . friend ' s first point : there be nobody more vocal about steel than my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) . we have have a number of programme in place to support the steel sector , because it have a number of challenge , as it have in many continental european country . fundamentally , Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine cause energy cost to skyrocket , and we have in place an energy cost relief scheme for the steel sector , which have be worth up to £ 730 million since 2013 . we now have the supercharger in place ; I have speak about the steel procurement policy note to ensure that there be more UK steel procure in UK market ; and , obviously , we provide support for Tata recently and Celsa previously . we be do everything that we can — with my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe , of course — to get the good deal possible for Scunthorpe , but these be commercial decision and they be ongoing . it be clear from today ' s comment that the Government be set to abandon more than 2 , 000 steelworker in Scunthorpe , just as they abandon over 3 , 000 on teesside eight year ago . that say , I too welcome the news of a new arc furnace for Redcar , but let I give the Minister yet another chance to answer the question from the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) and other : be the Government really go to settle for recycled steel and foreign import , and consign virgin steelmaking in the UK to history ? recycled steel can be recycle infinite time , so it do a huge amount for the circular economy . because of the way technology have move on , steel can now be use in many more sector . we have a huge surplus of scrap steel , which we end up export to country such as Turkey , Bangladesh and Pakistan . we could be reuse that in the UK economy . but as I say , these be commercial decision and nothing have be conclude . the statement put out by British Steel be a plan or a proposal . do the Minister not accept that it be a matter of national security that we should retain the ability to create primary steel in this country ? I have put it on record previously that we need to ensure that we have blast furnace capacity in the UK , and that , fundamentally , should be at the Scunthorpe site . there be matter involve national security — for instance , the anxiety about steel dumping from China and the issue emanate from Russia — and as we continue to manufacture at pace , we need to be able to ensure that we have access to steel manufacture here in the UK . some of the mighty structure make of steel be build in my constituency , in the Nigg yard — I work there myself once upon a time . the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) talk about the strategic importance of the industry . may I point out to the government that it be as important to my constituency in the far north of Scotland as it be to any other part of our great United Kingdom ? I can not disagree with that . I have be read up on Scunthorpe steel : it have be use to create structure range from the Sydney Harbour Bridge to the London Eye , which demonstrate the breadth and the depth of its history . the feedstock for the Trostre tinplate work in Llanelli be steel of a quality that can currently only be produce in the blast furnace process . follow the devastating news that Port Talbot blast furnace will be close by the end of March , leave Trostre dependent on import steel — quite possibly produce to low environmental standard abroad , and certainly not save on emission — may I ask the Minister to stop just quote commercial decision , and tell we what strategy the Government have to develop the green technology of the future here in the UK and to keep virgin steel production here as well ? I have a feeling that I have mention that a few time . we have a fund of about £ 1 . 5 million , partly aim to ensure that we be adopt , test and commercialise new technology to enable the steel sector to decarbonise . we have do a huge amount of work on electricity and we be also consider the possibility of hydrogen , so we be look into alternative source of energy to help the sector in the UK . I know there be challenge for place such as the hon . Lady ' s constituency because of the sort of steel that they need , but the fact remain that more and more different type of steel can be make to a high standard and a high grade in electric arc furnace . the move to net zero should deliver ten of thousand of long - term , well - pay , green industrial job , but with her Government ' s stick - plaster policy the Minister be destroy both job and sovereign national capability . be it really her intention to leave behind her a british steel sector that can not make british virgin steel , and if not , what be her plan ? Labour have an industrial strategy for green steel ; why do she not have one as well ? I simply do not recognise the picture that the hon . Lady paint . our recent decision on Tata Steel be welcome by UK Steel , the organisation represent the UK sector , which say that it be the way forward . UK Steel itself have a net zero strategy , and want to see the transition proceed apace . decision have be just leave to sit there , but now we be able to provide the support that be need . what we do in Port Talbot have save thousand of job and allow the adoption of new technology which will , indeed , create thousand of job as well . last Wednesday morning , Tata Steel executive in Port Talbot summon the workforce to tell they of the plan to shut down our entire virgin steel making capability by March 2024 . this be utterly shocking , because the understanding have always be that some of the heavy end would continue to function while the electric arc furnace be be construct , but it take year to construct an electric arc furnace . the plan be utter madness : it involve import million of tonne of steel from the other side of the world . electric arc furnace need the product of virgin steel making , such as iron and iron ore — that be why we need direct reduce iron capability — and the loss of 3 , 000 job over a period like that be completely unacceptable and unnecessary . when the Government do the deal with Tata Steel about Port Talbot , do they know that Tata be actually propose not a transition at all , but a potentially lethal cliff edge for our steel industry ? do they know that Tata would be do that ? do the Minister not agree that the idea of this process be that it should be a transition ? it need to be a bridge , not a potentially lethal cliff edge . Tata Steel employ more than 8 , 000 people and 12 , 500 far in the supply chain . all of that would have be at risk if we have not be able to provide the certainty it need to increase its investment to over £ 1 billion to allow it to transition . these be commercial decision relate to the pace of transition . the hon . Gentleman know that there be a transition board in place because he be a member . if there have be a failure in consultation at the level and depth of time require , there be no doubt that he and I will take that up as we will both be at the next transition board meeting . the reality be that to ensure the long - term viability of steel in the UK , some tricky decision have to be make , but the company be provide with support to make sure that it transition in a way that support local job , know that it have to transition and support the supply chain . I thank the Minister for her response . we have commit to a net zero target , but consideration must be give to the potential loss of 1 , 500 to 2 , 000 job , which could be go from the industry . we have be tell that the two furnace closure could put further employment at risk for many . what step will be take to ensure that the steel sector and industry job throughout the whole of the United Kingdom will be protect ? I have a meeting this morning where it be confirm to I that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be no . 7 in the world for manufacturing . if that be the case , steel be a key part of that . the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) be to be congratulate on bring forward this urgent question . really , Minister , we need to make sure that the industry can be retain and not reduce at all . that be why the support be so substantial to Port Talbot , to ensure that the steel sector could continue to thrive here in the UK . manufacture in the UK be boom . we be the eighth large manufacturer in the world and we need to get our good fundamentally from the UK , include steel . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that we can not achieve net zero without steel , but we can help steelmaking to become even more green and clean than it be at the moment . do the Minister accept that this news give up on the UK ' s capability to produce primary steel ? I do not , because it be a plan or proposal put out by British Steel . we have not conclude negotiation . this be a question of national security . it be not just a commercial decision . a specific question be ask of the Minister by the shadow Secretary of State on job loss specifically in Scunthorpe . be that figure of 2 , 000 correct ? negotiation have not conclude . we be continue to be in intensive talk with British Steel . we wish to provide the support that be need to support the steel sector and steel job but negotiation will continue . we need to make sure that due diligence be do and that we get value for money for taxpayer , whose money we be go to put on the table . but look at what we achieve at Port Talbot — a sector that be unable to confirm its future until we provide it with the financial support that it need . occupy palestinian Territories : humanitarian Situation with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on the humanitarian situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . a tragedy be unfold . Israel have suffer the bad terrorist attack in its history . palestinian civilian in Gaza be experience a devastating humanitarian crisis and violence be rise in the west bank . the good estimate emerge from a confused situation be that 2 . 3 million people need access to safe drinking water , food supply be run out , one third of hospital have be force to shut down and 1 . 5 million people be displace . I know that the whole House share my pain at see so many innocent life destroy on and since 7 October . Britain be work intensively to get more aid into Gaza , to support the safe return of hostage and british national , to back Israel ' s right to self - defence and to prevent a dangerous regional escalation . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have be engage extensively and Lord Ahmad have be constantly in the region . this morning I meet a group of charity and non - governmental organisation involve in get life - save support into Gaza . I speak yesterday to the jordanian , lebanese and egyptian ambassador and early this morning once again to Martin Griffiths . I wish also to pay tribute to our diplomat and development expert who be strive to make a difference in the most difficult of circumstance . despite the many challenge , the whole Government be determined to do all that we can to continue to stand up for what be right and do the right thing . immediately after Hamas ' s brutal assault , the Government bring home almost 1 , 000 british national safely on charter and military flight , but the safety of all british national be our utmost priority , so we be in regular contact with those in Gaza register with we since the conflict begin . work with partner , we have be engage intensively with Israel and Egypt to allow foreign national to leave Gaza via the Rafah border crossing . this have prove possible on five of the last seven day , and I can confirm to the House that , as of late last night , more than 150 british national have make it through to Egypt . a forward - deploy team of consular official be in el - Arish , close to Rafah , to meet they and provide the medical , consular and administrative support they need . we have also set up a reception centre for british national in Cairo and have arrange accommodation . we will do everything we can to ensure that all remain british national in Gaza can leave safely . sadly , among the british national in Gaza some be hold hostage by Hamas , among the more than 200 innocent cruelly kidnap on 7 October . their plight be a stark reminder of what Hamas represent . the terrorist continue to launch rocket relentlessly at israeli home and family . their stated aim , repeat publicly in recent week , be the destruction of the israeli state and the eradication of its people . that be why the Government unequivocally support Israel ' s right to defend itself . however , we have also repeatedly stress that Israel must take every precaution to minimise civilian casualty in line with international humanitarian law . we continue to press Israel to ensure that its campaign be target against Hamas leader , militant and military infrastructure . we also condemn settler violence . Israel need to take concrete measure to address it and hold the perpetrator to account . all party to a conflict must ensure that their action be proportionate and necessary , afford innocent civilian the protection that be their right under international law . who can doubt that this be true , because the palestinian people be also victim of Hamas . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have express his condolence to the President of the Palestinian Authority , Mahmoud Abbas , for the death of palestinian civilian catch in the aftermath of Hamas ' s attack . since 7 October , the UK have make available £ 30 million of additional aid to the Occupied Palestinian Territories , more than double our exist aid commitment for this year . so far , three UK flight carry a total of 51 tonne of aid have land in Egypt . the shipment include life - save item such as wound care pack , water filter and solar powered light . we have also send humanitarian adviser and vital equipment include the forklift truck , belt conveyor and light tower specifically request by the Egyptian Red Crescent Society to help it to manage and deliver all the international aid receive in Egypt more effectively . for this aid to meet escalate need , however , it must enter Gaza and do so in much great quantity . the Government have be work closely with partner include the United Nations , the International Committee of the Red Cross and the egyptian and israeli government to achieve this . since 21 October , a limited number of truck of aid have cross into the strip , but the volume go through the Rafah checkpoint be nowhere near enough to meet civilian need and it can not be , even be it operate at full capacity . we be therefore urgently explore with partner measure that can help to increase the flow of humanitarian support . these measure must include effective humanitarian pause , as agree by all the G7 country in Tokyo this morning , and we be urge Israel to consider utilise the facility at other land border crossing into Gaza , such as Kerem Shalom . this reflect our current assessment that delivery by land remain the only safe option to deliver aid in the quantity need in Gaza while ensure the necessary control and oversight . control and oversight matter , give the absolute imperative of ensure that aid reach those in need and be not divert or misuse . aid diversion be a real risk — more so during conflict — and I will set out to the House how we be manage those risk . all UK aid undergo rigorous oversight . no funding go to Hamas or the Palestinian Authority . our humanitarian programme in the Occupied Palestinian Territories already operate with enhanced sensitivity , with the Government have introduce additional safeguard in 2017 . they include measure to verify and map downstream partner , non - payment of local taxis , and enhance due - diligence process . we constantly review the due - diligence assessment in place with all partner involve in deliver aid in the occupy Palestinian Territories . the whole House recognise , however , that to prevent further conflict and terrorism and truly alleviate civilian suffering , there must be a political solution to the conflict . this issue be uniquely polarise . we have see across the world and in our own community its potential to radicalise . the long - stand british position on the middle east process be unchanged : we want to see a safe and secure Israel live alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . the urgency of a political track — extraordinarily difficult today — have never be more clear . both Israelis and Palestinians have a right to live in peace and security . we have moral clarity over Israel ' s right to self - defence and we reject all form of antisemitism , but we be also commit to discharge our moral duty to alleviate the suffering of ordinary Palestinians and we reject all form of Islamophobia . the current turmoil must act as a further impulse towards realise a peaceful future for the region , and the UK will be do all it can to achieve that . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for the copy of his statement and for his call last night . four week on from the horror of 7 October , it be hard to comprehend the scale of the devastation in Gaza : almost 1 . 5 million people displace and more than 10 , 000 people kill , with more trap under the rubble of destroy building . every single one of those life matter . every single death be a devastating tragedy . with two third of the dead be woman and child , these civilian death be not just shocking — they can not be ignore . hundred of thousand of people be crowd into shelter in desperate need of food , water , medicine and fuel . and while we welcome the 93 truck that enter through Rafah on 6 November , that be completely insufficient to meet the scale of humanitarian need . I be surprise the Minister do not make more mention of fuel , because this be the urgent priority . without it the water can not flow , the hospital can not power their incubator and the food can not be cook . the sewage system breakdown be now threaten a major public health crisis . for week , the international community have demand that the siege condition on Gaza be lift , but that have still not happen . that be totally unacceptable and it can not continue . both the UN humanitarian co - ordinator Martin Griffiths and the United States have make serious effort to break the deadlock , and to provide the assurance that Israel need about fuel diversion . can the Minister tell the House what effort the Government be make to insist that fuel for humanitarian purpose can get into Gaza ? I welcome his update on discussion about Kerem Shalom , but what be his assessment on the speed at which that could be achieve ? may I urge he again to follow the US example and appoint a humanitarian co - ordinator to scale up the passage of aid ? we all recognise that while rocket and bomb continue to fall , it be impossible to deliver the scale of aid need across the whole of Gaza and to repair the damage , extensive as it be , to water and electricity system . we all want an end to the violence and the urgent release of hostage , but with Hamas leader double down on their determination to attack Israel , and with Israel rule out a ceasefire until hostage be release , the reality be that humanitarian pause be , as Martin Griffiths write movingly last week , " the only viable prospect " . in Cairo last week , minister and aid agency impress on I the urgency of that . pause provide not only much need aid , but space : space for the basic humanity to bury the dead ; space to look past the pain ; and space for dialogue to make progress towards peace more likely . this be need now . no more delay . we be devastate by the death of so many aid worker and United Nations Relief and Works Agency staff — the high number kill in any conflict in the UN ' s history . I hope I join the whole House in mourn their loss and pay tribute to their bravery and their humanity . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] safe shelter , safe distribution centre , and safe medical facility , hospital and emergency service convoy be essential . I echo the Minister ' s word about the unacceptable nature of settler violence in the west bank , but will he join I in reiterate our call that Israel ' s clear right to self - defence be not a blank cheque ? he acknowledge the importance of international law . have he raise the protection of hospital , school and refugee camp with his israeli counterpart , and the need for action to be in accordance with international law in order to protect civilian and ensure safe and unimpeded access for aid ? the average age in Gaza be just 18 . make no mistake : this be a child ' s war . More child have die in Gaza in four week than in all the world ' s conflict in each of the last three year . there be 1 million child catch up in the devastation who be orphan and displace , sleep outside as the weather grow cold , short of food and force to drink dirty water . in most conflict we would expect child to be evacuate to a safe place to receive care and shelter . what make this so devastating be that , almost uniquely , in this conflict that be not go to happen . in the face of such an extraordinary threat to child , the international community be obligate to do more . with the Foreign Secretary at the G7 this week , will the Government join we in call for an emergency plan to support the child of Gaza , to prioritise aid to child , safe and protect shelter for food , clean water and medical care as winter set in ? the crisis do not start in Gaza on 7 October . even before then , two third of child be suffer from trauma . one aid agency that operate in North Sinai and Gaza tell I last week that this now stand at 100 % . without a long - term co - ordinate plan for the child of Gaza , the political solution we need will not be realise and the cycle of violence will not be break . we can and must do more . I thank the hon . Lady very much for her comment and for the priority she set out in her response . I echo her comment about the brave humanitarian worker who lose their life . she will remember that we consistently condemn that in the case of Sudan , where approximately 20 lose their life . as she have , we honour , across the House , the more than 100 humanitarian worker — unarmed people put themselves in harm ' s way deliberately to help their fellow citizen — who have lose their life . I also pay tribute to those work in the crisis centre in Whitehall . one hundred or so official , nearly all volunteer and very young , be work triple shift the night that Rafah open , work through the night to help british citizen . I pay tribute to they , their spirit and their hard work . the hon . Lady make a particular point about the importance of fuel and , of course , she be absolutely right . we be negotiate for it . she will know that Hamas have a lot of fuel in their tunnel — we recognise entirely what that fuel be be use for — so fuel could be make available to help in humanitarian purpose . we be do our good to negotiate for it . she will also have see today ' s G7 statement , which be very clear on these point . the hon . Lady ask about route for access , and the american envoy , Mr Satterfield , have be work non - stop to try to work out whether we can speed up other route , use Kerem Shalom and Rafah , and we will continue to do all that . the hon . Lady prioritise the importance of pause , and we completely agree . we be argue for humanitarian pause , but she will also accept that , in the method within the pause by which humanitarian support be distribute , it be extremely important that we do not repeat the mistake we make in Srebrenica , Rwanda and northern Iraq , when vulnerable people be bring together whom we be unable to protect . there be very clear guideline on any pause and safe space , and there must be absolute protection for those who go to they . the hon . Lady mention that support for Israel be not a blank cheque . of course , she be right . good friend deliver hard message , and they be able to do so precisely because they be good friend . she talk of child , and I see unicef this morning . I entirely recognise the passion with which she raise that point . we will do everything we can to ensure that the priority of child be recognise in all the humanitarian work we do . finally , I remind the House of the wise word of our former colleague , and former Foreign Secretary , the noble Lord Hague . at the end of his brilliant article in the Times on 9 October , he say : " it be no consolation to those catch up in it but … this be no strategic masterstroke by Hamas , more a desperate move to fend off a future that be rapidly leave they behind . " we should not forget that , the day after this , there will be an urgent need for a political context . rise — Order . I and , I suspect , my successor in the Chair will do our utmost to accommodate all member , because we recognise the importance of this subject . I would be grateful if hon . member would keep their remark as brief as possible under the circumstance , in order that we can accommodate everybody . I also gently remind the House of the admonition offer by Mr Speaker yesterday . we be deal with very sensitive and very emotive issue . word matter and the tone of those word matter . I know the House be capable of rise to an occasion , and I trust that this will be one of they . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I hope that the Government ' s call for humanitarian pause will continue and be insistent . the Minister talk about a viable palestinian state , which require land . the reality be that so much of that land have be lose to illegal settlement . will he continue to make that point , because a bright future will require land to guarantee the peace we all yearn for . my hon . friend make an extremely good point . of course we will continue , as he suggest , to prioritise the issue of pause . he will know that , in my statement , I condemn settler violence , as do the Prime Minister in yesterday ' s response to the Gracious Speech . what he say be right , and we will not forget that . I associate myself with the shadow Minister ' s comment pay tribute to all the UN and aid worker who have be kill . the Minister be correct to remind the House that UK national be be hold hostage by Hamas . that say , the israeli military must follow the law of war in this situation . have the Government make an assessment of Israel ' s compliance with international human right law since 14 October ? as he mention in his statement , hospital in Gaza be run out of fuel and UNRWA be warn that its aid operation will shortly " come to a stop " if fuel supply do not get into Gaza , with blood and life - save equipment also run out . have the Government consider send a military hospital ship to Egypt to help injured man , woman and child who have be able to leave Gaza ? finally , the Minister rightly say that there must be a political solution . the Red Cross have say that it be " not an exaggeration to say it ' s catastrophic in Gaza . " in Gaza , 4 , 100 palestinian child have die — a rate of 180 child a day . at what point will the UK Government join the many of we who be ask they to use their leverage to reach that political solution and call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza ? I thank the hon . gentleman for what he say and the tone in which he say it . I also thank he for what he say about the brave humanitarian worker who have lose their life . he ask whether we be aware of the full impact of supply run out in Gaza , and I can assure he that we absolutely be . he speak about the importance of follow the rule of war and international humanitarian law , and both Front Benches be urge the israeli Government to do that . we note the commitment of the President of Israel in that respect , but everyone will be watch to ensure that the rule of war be obey . I have not speak to a single constituent who have not feel the pain and tragedy of the 1 , 400 people murder on 7 October , or of the tragedy unfolding in Gaza . I commend the Minister for all the work he be do , and I know he work incredibly hard to make sure no stone be leave unturned . can he confirm that aid will increase , if necessary , in future ? do he share my concern about the risk of the conflict expand because of the presence of Hezbollah ? its 100 , 000 soldier and 150 , 000 rocket pose a risk to the region . I thank my hon . friend for his comment . we have double the amount of aid go into the region , but we will increase it far if necessary . we be currently do a lot of work to try to work out how to quantify what be in el - Arish and how to make sure it can be move . physically move the aid be also a factor , which be why Britain have send five forklift truck and a conveyor belt . of course , regional expansion be an enormous worry for we all , and it be one of the reason why the Prime Minister decide to send both air and naval asset to RAF Akrotiri in the eastern Mediterranean , to see what be be move , to interdict any arm that be come in , and to make sure we do everything we can to ensure that this conflict be contain and do not expand far . ten thousand people have be kill in a month , with UN staff , building , hospital , journalist and the third old church in Christendom unspared , since Hamas ' s deadly atrocity . there be 230 - plus hostage still in captivity . the Minister talk about be a critical friend , so will he urge the Netanyahu Administration to recognise that statement such as the one about a " permanent " Gazan takeover , with some israeli Ministers not even rule out nuke , be only lose they support ? do he have any advice for my constituent , whose sister be a survivor of a family mostly wipe out when they move south , as instruct ? he say , " we don ' t just want to manage to eat before die under rubble . " I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . as far as the hostage be concern , she will appreciate that we do not give a running commentary on those negotiation . she may rest assure that we be work very closely , include with Qatar , to secure their release . she will have see the condemnation of the nuclear comment make by a senior israeli . on the subject of what happen when the conflict be over , she will have see the very constructive comment make not only by some of the surround arab leader but by Secretary Blinken when he address that point . I appreciate that the Minister be limited in what he can share on sensitive diplomatic matter , but will he assure the House that the UK Government be do everything possible to work with ally to negotiate the return of the hostage ? yes . as we see the humanitarian catastrophe unfold in Gaza , with the terrible image of the dying , displace and maim , our focus must be on get humanitarian aid to they and a humanitarian pause for they . as we look forward to a time when the bombing stop , do the Minister agree that the lack of focus on progress a two - state solution over the past decade and more be a failure on the part of the international community ? will he set out something of what he will be do to bring renew focus on a just political settlement to the conflict in the region ? the Foreign Office and British Government be very focused on how to re - energise the peace process when the opportunity present itself . the hon . Lady will have see the comment that have be make about both a civil Administration in Gaza and what be necessary to secure peace when that point arrive . it be important to note that the huge progress — ultimately unsuccessful — that be make at Oslo take place on the back of the first intifada . it may therefore be that there will be an opportunity , give the disaster that have take place , to re - energise that political track . we must make sure that if that opportunity present itself , we grasp it with both hand . this be something that unite the House more than divide it , certainly on the issue of the horror go on in Palestine right now and what cause they . we all recognise the personal commitment of the Minister to humanitarian aim and , in particular , to humanitarian pause . do he agree that those who call for a ceasefire must recognise that Hamas be a terrorist organisation and , as be say by the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) yesterday , that terrorist organisation go for ceasefire only when they suit their own regrouping , not to end violence ? I thank my right hon . friend for his comment and , of course , he be absolutely right . we all recognise the motivation of those who call for a ceasefire and why they be do it , but at this time , in this situation , it be perfectly clear that Hamas have no intention of engage in a ceasefire . indeed , they have repeatedly make it clear that their intention be to repeat the awful event of 7 October . so I agree entirely with both his understanding and prediction of the situation . I and many of my constituent continue to be upset beyond word by the human suffering we have see on television screen since 7 October . so often , I be be ask to take side , but , in the word of Jonathan Freedland : " this be not a football match … two people with deep wound , howl with grief , fate to share the same small piece of land . " do the Minister agree that the side we need to be on be the side of all those who be work towards a last peace ? the hon . Lady be entirely correct in her last point , and indeed in all that she say . she say that her constituent be upset beyond measure . one thing we can all agree , wherever we stand on this issue , be that everyone be upset beyond measure . therefore , she be right to say that we must focus , whenever the opportunity present itself , on the political track and all the opportunity that could then open up . I thank my right hon . friend for his long - stand work in this area . the shadow Minister speak of fuel and water . on 7 October , amid Hamas ' s atrocity in Israel , the terrorist group make a concerted effort to destroy water and electricity line from Israel into Gaza . apparently , Israel have reopen two of the three water line into Gaza , but the third remain heavily damaged , as do the power line . do he share my concern that Hamas deliberately seek to worsen the humanitarian condition inside Gaza ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his comment , and of course he be right . once again , I draw his attention to the word of the former Foreign Secretary Lord Hague , who so accurately , so soon after these awful event take place , predict the reason why Hamas be do this and why , ultimately , they must fail . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and the response from my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) . will the Minister distance himself from the description of the Palestine marcher as " hate - fill " ? the constituent I have be talk to be decent , law - abide family who have no truck at all with Hamas but who be horrify by the scene they be see , of child kill and maim , day after day on their screen and be want this to stop , as we all must . will he distance himself from that description ? the right of protest be much cherish in this country , and , of course , they be enshrine in law and we respect that . as for what the Home Secretary say , we be all responsible for what we say and she say it in the way that she do . first , let I thank the Minister , all his team and the United Nations agency that be involve — Martin Griffiths and the people from the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees who be on the ground , who obviously be in mourn for their colleague — for all their incredible work to help with humanitarian aid . do my right hon . friend agree that this be , in a sense , an intractable problem , because the nature of Hamas and how they be base in Gaza make it impossible for Israel to defend itself effectively without , surely , break the rule of engagement and cause casualty , which everyone here find very hard to accept ? do he therefore accept that the smidgeon of hope in all of this be that this disaster , which could repeat itself time and again , must be the catalyst for those in the region , above all , to lead on find a proper political solution ? my hon . friend be entirely correct . I hope that he will agree with my Oslo analogy and think that should give we all some hope at a very dark time . he be entirely right in what I take he to have mean , which be that Hamas can play no part in the future of Gaza after what have happen . I thank he very much for his comment about UN agency and official . there be no doubt that the UN , particularly UNRWA and the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , be work incredibly hard . I last speak to Martin Griffiths just after 2 o ' clock this morning , and I can tell the House that every sinew be be bent within the UN in try to end an horrific state of affair , which have be so accurately set out across the House . heartbreakingly , the number of child kill in Gaza in just four week of israeli bombardment have surpass the number kill in global conflict zone for every year since 2019 , so we must urgently work for peace and a two - state solution , however difficult that may seem , and urgently deal with the humanitarian crisis engulf Gaza . it pain I to see that the death toll in the occupy west bank , which I recently visit , be rapidly rise , include as a result of an israeli airstrike on a mosque and more deadly settler violence . those victim be certainly not Hamas . so will the Minister join I in condemn settler violence and the extremist rhetoric , and will he ensure that those perpetrator be hold to account ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to ask we to condemn settler violence . the Prime Minister do that yesterday when he address the House , I do it in my statement , and it have be do from the Opposition Front Bench as well . the hon . Gentleman be also right to say that violence in the west bank have reach unprecedented level . we be do everything we can to urge restraint and ensure that it stop . in what he say about child , he speak for the whole House . the analysis of the problem be the easy part , but we be all work for the resolution . on child , I welcome both statement make from the front Benches : my right hon . friend the Minister be right to focus on every civilian life that have be lose in this conflict , and the hon . member for Wigan be right to highlight the importance of child in this . I remind the House that the full wording of the Balfour declaration include : " it be clearly understand that nothing shall be do which may prejudice the civil and religious right of exist non - jewish community in Palestine " . child ' s right should be at the heart of that , so may I urge my right hon . friend to double down on the push for humanitarian pause and for humanitarian access , to make sure that we can protect child ' s right to life and to education ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment , with which I agree entirely , and for his recollection of the Balfour declaration . I be tell by the Muslim Council of Wales that seven family in Wales have lose immediate family member in Palestine , with some have lose child and grandchild . we fear for the israeli hostage in Gaza , among they british citizen . More will lose their life , which be why Plaid Cymru have table a motion in the Senedd call on the international community to seek an immediate ceasefire . in advocate for humanitarian pause , do the Minister recognise that innocent non - combatant in Gaza will again be kill when pause cease and that the only way to achieve last peace be a ceasefire ? the right hon . Lady will have hear what I and the Opposition Front Bench spokesperson , the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , have say about ceasefire , but the heart of the whole House will go out to the seven family — and maybe other too , in Wales — who have lose family member . the atrocity on 7 October be well planned and well resource . indeed , Hamas , the terrorist group , stockpile in advance , know what the response would be from Israel . equally , Hamas have be catch out put injure terrorist through the Rafah crossing into Egypt . what be my right hon . friend ' s assessment of what Hamas should do now to release the resource they have stockpile , so that there can be a wider humanitarian effort than there be currently ? my hon . friend be right and know a great deal about these issue . he be right about the atrocity commit on 7 October by Hamas . this be a pogrom . it be the bad loss of jewish life at any time in one day since the Holocaust and since 1945 . one reason why the Rafah crossing be so difficult be precisely because of the circumstance that he describe , with the misuse of the rule by injured Hamas terrorist . accord to Gaza ' s Ministry of Health , more than 10 , 000 people have be kill by israeli force in the past month — that be one of every 200 resident of Gaza . that do not include everyone who may have die due to lack of clean water or the collapse of the healthcare system after fuel be cut off . how many more people must die before the Government join the UN Secretary - General , the World Health Organisation , UNICEF , Amnesty International , Doctors without Borders , save the Children , Oxfam and the UN General Assembly in call for an immediate ceasefire ? once again , the hon . Lady will have hear the view of spokespeople on both Front Benches on the issue of a ceasefire , but her comment underline the importance now of try to achieve these humanitarian pause , so that help and succour can be bring to those who be suffer . the loss of life in Israel and Palestine be beyond horror and everybody want it to stop , but the statement from Hamas that they will not stop until the people of Israel be annihilate be deeply chilling . in his statement , the Minister mention radicalisation and the concern that the great the loss of civilian life , the great the risk of radicalisation , so I thank he for say clearly that Israel must take precaution to minimise civilian casualty . I would add that Israel need to be see to be take such precaution . we continue to call for pause in fighting to let aid in and people out . what assessment have he make of the likelihood of such pause happen ? I do not think I can give a running commentary on that , except to say that the sinew of everybody be bent towards achieve it . my right hon . friend make a good point that , from all this death , destruction and killing , we must guard against the radicalisation of an entire new generation of young people . as President Biden say , it be very important that the lesson of 9 / 11 be properly learn . those of we who support a ceasefire be get the overwhelming message from both the Government and the Labour Front Bench spokespeople that somehow call for a ceasefire be naive . do the Minister think that the Pope be naive in call for a ceasefire ? I have set out very clearly our understanding , our logic and the reason why we and Opposition Front Benchers have reach the conclusion we have on a ceasefire . I hope , at the very least , the hon . Gentleman will reflect on those . get aid into Gaza be vital and I welcome the Minister ' s statement about look for additional border crossing . what be more important be make sure that once aid be in Gaza , it get to the people who need it most . report suggest that Hamas be hold more than 200 , 000 gallon of fuel that could be use for generator , to power hospital or for ambulance . what be the Government ' s assessment of Hamas hold fuel ? what step be be take to ensure that once aid get into Gaza , it do not end up in the hand of Hamas ? my hon . friend be right that we know Hamas have hoard fuel in Gaza , although I can not give he a statistic on that . the statistic he give to the House may or may not be right , but we know that they do have a stockpiling of fuel . in term of the way in which support will be use once we get the pause and be able to get help and humanitarian supply into Gaza , I can tell my hon . friend that we be very careful indeed . we never work through the Palestinian Authority or Hamas in term of direct support ; we only go through trust organisation . as I set out in my statement , we be very careful indeed to ensure that the aid get to those who need it and get there directly . the United Nations Secretary - General have say : " Gaza be become a graveyard for child . " More than 4 , 000 child have be kill since the start of the conflict . every day we see footage of heartbreaking story ; I watch a small girl be pull out of the rubble , ask her uncle if she be dead and whether he be take she to a graveyard . another video show a girl of barely five stuck under a collapse building , pray her final prayer in preparation for her death . at their age , child should be ask whether they be go to a playground , to buy an ice cream or any of those usual thing , not whether they be go to a graveyard or prepare for their death . child outside Al - Shifa Hospital yesterday feel they need to do a press conference to call on the world to let they live . Minister , when will the UK ramp up its effort to end the bloodshed and ensure that palestinian child just have the right to live ? the hon . Lady speak with the great possible eloquence . she speak for the whole House in say that what be happen to child in Gaza appal we all . I just ask she to consider the wide context , accept that the Government understand and agree with her analysis of the plight of child in Gaza , and will do everything within the wide context to try to bring that to an end . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests concern my visit to Israel and Palestine in May this year . I receive a report from a surgeon at a hospital in Gaza today . he say the situation be beyond catastrophic and that he be see " horrific " injury , the majority of which be to child . he say : " the type of injury we be see be not something a human mind can accept or tolerate . " he go on to say that people who be be pull alive from the rubble " be scratch and bleed and full of fly . " a lot of his report be very graphic , include the fact that many child have lose limb and no one know who many of they be . the UK be the penholder for the protection of civilian in conflict at the UN Security Council . can we ensure that all health facility , include the Indonesia Hospital in Gaza , which be at threat of be bomb , be protect from attack ? my hon . friend be entirely right to refer to the UK ' s role at the United Nations . we take those responsibility extremely seriously and our brilliant team who work at the UN be do everything to justify the fact that we hold that particular pen , among any other . my hon . friend will have hear what the Prime Minister say about the treatment of hospital , and we will continue to do everything we can to protect they . may I welcome the balance and tone of the Minister ' s statement ? when the Government make representation to the israeli Government about the increase in settler violence in the west bank , what do the israeli Government say in return ? these be ongoing discussion and they be make at many level . the Prime Minister have speak repeatedly to Prime Minister Netanyahu , and my colleague Lord Ahmad have be consistently in the region , as have the Foreign Secretary , so we be have those discussion at every level . the right hon . Gentleman may rest assure that what the Prime Minister have say , and what I have say from the Dispatch Box , be the thrust of those discussion , and we be do everything we possibly can to drive forward what both he and I believe be the right answer to this . it be incredibly difficult to hear the testimony of the survivor of the 7 October Hamas atrocity . it be equally difficult to see the medium report of what be happen in Gaza , particularly in relation to the child who be be affect . it be so important that we do all we can to bring this conflict to an end for the security and the future of child in both Israel and Gaza . I welcome the extra humanitarian aid that be go into Gaza from the UK Government . can the Minister please assure we that , once this conflict be over and even big humanitarian aid be require , the Government will do all they can to help rebuild Gaza ? on my hon . friend ' s final point , there be no doubt that when peace come and the international community be able to engage in a political process , the rebuilding of Gaza will certainly be a part of that . to her point about the awful testimony of survivor from the 7 October attack and the dreadful scene that we see on our television thank to the brave reportage of many journalist , there be no doubt that it be extremely difficult to watch , which be why the Government , along with our ally and other who be deeply concerned about this , be do all we can to ensure that we bring this to a close as soon as we can . there be 1 , 400 dead in Israel and 10 , 000 dead in Gaza ; there be increase military activity on the west bank , increase settler violence , and now more and more child die as this conflict go on in Gaza . Prime Minister Netanyahu be now promise that Israel will control the Gaza strip into the indefinite future . be it not time that the british Government join all those other sensible and reasonable voice around the world that be do everything they can to demand and get a ceasefire to prevent any further loss of life and to begin to work out a peaceful future for all the people in the region ? the right hon . Gentleman will have hear what his successor , the leader of the Labour party , have say on the subject of a ceasefire , and we agree with he . none the less , the right hon . Gentleman describe an extraordinarily difficult situation . he also talk about security on the west bank , the key purpose of which for Israel be to ensure that the rocket can not come over the border again . I think we need to see security in that context , rather than in the ebb and flow of the debate that be go on at the moment . we know that escalation be a real risk . with report that israeli force have start raid refugee camp on the west bank , we know that there be real risk to innocent Palestinians . there be also report of israeli settler on the west bank become increasingly hostile in the occupy Palestinian Territories . will the Minister please explain what specific step he be take to de - escalate the situation ? my hon . friend make the point that escalation be not just about the region , but about the west bank as well . that be why the Prime Minister have condemn settler violence and why we continue to make representation to the israeli Government in that respect . on the question of humanitarian pause , can the Minister tell we his assessment of how long they will last , how people will be protect , and how those pause will be manage ? he refer briefly to those point in his statement . the aim of humanitarian pause be not only to get humanitarian relief and supply into Gaza , but to ensure that there be a safe structure , as I say early in my statement , to deliver humanitarian supply , and one that do not put people in jeopardy . therefore , a humanitarian pause should not be see as one on its own ; we be look at negotiate a series of humanitarian pause , so that there can be a proper supply basis for the people we be try to help . many constituent have raise concern with I about the humanitarian crisis face by Palestinians in Gaza . indeed , a march be hold in Aylesbury on Saturday , which , I be pleased to say , pass off peacefully . we know that Hamas hide behind human shield — include , shockingly , even in hospital . how be my right hon . friend ' s Department work with partner on the ground in Gaza to ensure that aid get to those who need it , include in hospital , despite the barbarity and the barrier put in their way by Hamas ? my hon . friend be quite right to raise the importance of ensure that Hamas brutality do not fetter our ability to get aid through to those who really need it . I can give he the undertaking that that be precisely what we be try to do . against the backdrop of a child die every 10 minute in Gaza and evidence that water enter as aid through the Rafah crossing be not be allow into northern Gaza , will the Minister confirm that the Government support the independence of the International Criminal Court and recognise its jurisdiction to address the conduct of all party in the conflict in Gaza ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment about the importance of prioritise child . in respect of the International Criminal Court , she will know that the Government be a very strong supporter of it and the role that it play in international affair . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement ; I agree with every single word of it . in my 13 year as an MP I have never receive such detailed and harrowing letter from my jewish and muslim community in South Derbyshire . whatever else happen , please can we make sure that , look to the future , we work on the two - state solution and put in place a safe place for all Gazans and jewish family go forward ? my hon . friend accurately summarise the role and the importance that the Government attach to progress the political process , and I thank she for her comment in that respect . will the Minister tell we whether his discussion with charity and non - governmental organisation this morning include aid agency such as Oxfam , christian aid or save the child ? they say that only a full ceasefire can deliver the condition to get lifesave food , fuel , water and medicine into Gaza , not least because critical infrastructure , such as road and hospital , need to be mend first and that can not happen if there be only humanitarian pause . I know that he have say a lot this afternoon about the difference between pause and a ceasefire , but he have not address explicitly the advice that we be hear from humanitarian expert on the ground who say that only a full ceasefire will allow they to get that kind of aid fast enough to the people who need it . the hon . Lady be correct about the importance of tackle the deficiency of infrastructure , both in the area around Rafah and more extensively than that . she ask about my contact with NGOs and charity . as she say , I have a meeting this morning that be chair by the British Overseas NGOs for Development — BOND — which be the collective of charity . we operate through trust partner , such as UNICEF , UNRWA and UNHCHR , and we be in continual contact with they . the point she make about infrastructure be one that we be very much aware of and will do everything we can to assist with . the Minister be absolutely right to say that Hamas make a massive strategic error when they attack innocent israeli people on 7 October , and they be pay a heavy price with the destruction of their terror network in the Gaza strip . however , do he agree that the big price that they should pay be the moderate voice on both side come together to re - establish the framework , as he have refer to , that be in place under Oslo , go towards a two - state solution between a viable israeli state and a viable palestinian state , and get the terror network out of the way ? not just in Britain but all around the arab world and the United Nations , people be very much focused on how to get a political track go again when these dreadful event draw to a close . as I say early , I think the one opportunity that may arise from these dreadful event be an effort to rebuild the political process to deliver an answer on the way we go forward politically — my hon . Friend mention the two - state solution , which be the bedrock of british Government policy . I speak to a constituent last night who be study in York . he have lose 42 member of his wide family , and his immediate family remain in the line of rocket in Gaza . what step be the Government take to ensure that there can be family reunion , and that refugee can come from the Gaza strip to the UK ? we be work very hard to ensure that family be not break up through the Rafah crossing . we have be moderately successful at that so far . I be sure that everything that can be do will be do . if any of the hon . Lady ' s constituent be catch up in that way , I hope that she will let we know in the crisis centre through the MP hotline . I put on record my thank to the Bolton Council of Mosques , which cover 34 mosque in my constituency and have 60 , 000 member across the town . my constituent have feel very aggrieved over the last month . we have see statement come out of Israel about have " security responsibility " for Gaza for an " indefinite period " . the Minister mention that Secretary of State Antony Blinken have say that there shall be no israeli reoccupation of Gaza after the war . what be our Government ' s position on that in the long term ? my constituent through the Bolton Council of Mosques have call repeatedly for a ceasefire . I will meet they again tomorrow night . from our Government ' s perspective , what criterion would have to be meet in order for we to call for a ceasefire ? I know that my hon . friend have be deeply engage in represent his constituent , and I be aware of the representation that he have make . I hope that he will explain to his constituent tomorrow night the reason why a ceasefire be not something that either the Government or the opposition be call for . I hope that he will be able to explain that we be do everything that we can both to construct a scenario where there can be a number of pause and to ensure that humanitarian support can be safely deliver within Gaza . the International Committee of the Red Cross have report that as Gaza lose power , hospital lose power , put newborn in incubator and elderly patient who be on oxygen at risk . without electricity , hospital turn into morgue . do the Minister not think that at this point bring an immediate stop to the violence be the only way to stop hospital turn into morgue and the whole of Gaza turn into a graveyard ? we be extremely concerned about the position in hospital and the effect that the hon . Gentleman have describe , but I can only repeat what I have already say to the House about how we be do everything that we can to try to bring these circumstance to a close . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and for his , the Prime Minister ' s and the Foreign Secretary ' s ongoing diplomatic effort . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the brave humanitarian worker who be do so much in Gaza , and can he reassure the House again that the UK Government be strain every sinew to get as much humanitarian aid into Gaza as quickly as possible ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for once again reiterate the strong support across the House for the brave humanitarian worker and what they be do in this terrible conflict , and for express his abhorrence that unarmed people who be try only to benefit their fellow human should be murder in this way . he can rest assure that we will do everything that we can to ensure that they be protect . hounslow ' s muslim leader tell I and my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) yesterday evening of the horror feel in their community at the atrocity take place in Gaza , the need to get aid and support in , and their wish for long - term peace . now that Israel be threaten to occupy Gaza permanently , will the UK Government support the US Secretary of State Blinken ' s insistence that there should be no israeli occupation of Gaza after this war ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for tell the House about her meeting with the muslim leader in her constituency . I hope that she will tell they about the position of the House , the aid and support that we be try to get in through the pause , and the support for the political process that she mention . the british Government agree with what Secretary Blinken say , but be absolutely clear that the perpetrator of the dreadful event on 7 October — Hamas — must never be allow to do it again . my constituent Momon Zomlot be from Gaza . I meet he when he be work as a chef at a local pizza restaurant . he be an incredibly nice and genuine guy , but this morning he send I a text inform I that his family home be destroy three day ago and he have hear nothing from his family since . how much long do we have to wait until this suffering end and humanitarian aid can reach people such as my constituent ' s family ? I can not tell my hon . friend the answer to that , but I can tell he that we be do everything that we can to ensure that the period be as short as possible . rise — Order . I indicate that I would endeavour to accommodate everybody . that remain the case . the Minister have indicate to I that he have effectively clear his diary to accommodate this statement , because he realise how important it be . but there be a time when everything have to come to an end , because a large number of member , particularly on the Opposition Benches , wish to speak in the King ' s Speech debate and we want to get those people in as well . I will try to terminate this statement by 2 . 30 pm , bear in mind that some 38 member still wish to ask a question . we be grateful to the Minister for his tireless work , but by his own analysis the aid be not get through . I commend to he the motion pass by Birmingham City Council last night that call for an immediate ceasefire bind on all side , because it be the good way to save the hostage , get aid through , and let the war crime inspector do their work . I support that position . I do not think that he do , but could he tell we under what condition the British Government would shift from a policy of support humanitarian pause to a strategy of support an immediate ceasefire ? I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will explain to our friend on Birmingham City Council the reason the Government and indeed his own Front Bench take the view that they do about a ceasefire , but he be right that the critical thing at the moment be to focus on the humanitarian pause , which be design to get food to those who need it . nothing be more important in this context than that . the Minister say in response to my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) that he want the Government of Israel to comply with international human right law and that he encourage they to do so , but he do not answer my hon . friend ' s question : have the Government make an assessment of whether or not the Government of Israel be comply with international human right law ? it be not for the Government to make such an assessment ; it be for lawyer and a court to do so . the critical thing be that Britain make it clear that all country must abide by international humanitarian law and the rule of war . over 10 , 000 people have already be kill in Gaza in the past month — more than be kill in the 1995 Srebrenica genocide . there be grave concern that starvation be be use as a weapon of war against 400 , 000 civilian in the north of Gaza . that be illegal under international law . the UN Secretary - General and a number of other have talk about the need for a humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza and a halt to the spiral of escalation already take place , from the west bank to Lebanon , Syria , Iraq and Yemen . I recognise the position across the two main party on a ceasefire , but 120 country in the UN General Assembly adopt a resolution call for an immediate humanitarian truce . that have not be achieve either . the Government talk about humanitarian pause , yet our Government have abstain on UN resolution . what be the Government do to use their influence at the international level to stop the bombardment , so that at the very least aid can get in ? as I set out in my statement , we be engage on all those matter and do everything we can , through Britain ' s very strong diplomatic network , which mean that we be engage and connect to almost all the relevant party in this matter , and that will continue . order . I do have to call upon hon . member to try to keep their question brief . I want to accommodate everybody , but at the present rate of lengthy question it be simply not go to be possible . I thank the Minister for his thoughtful answer . in 1919 , see child from the defeat Austro - Hungarian empire starve , Eglantyne Jebb establish Save the Children . many people say to she , " how can you help enemy child ? " and one of her supporter , the great irish humanitarian George Bernard Shaw , say : " I have no enemy under the age of seven . " almost half of Palestinians be child , many thousand of whom have be kill , maim and orphan . so have many israeli child , include one dual irish citizen who be believe to be among the hostage in Gaza . do the Minister agree with unicef ' s regional director , Adele Khodr , who say that the situation in Gaza be " a grow stain on our collective conscience " ? the head of UNICEF , who make those comment , be right to focus on what be happen in Gaza and to express her abhorrence of what be take place . on the hon . Lady ' s citation of the brilliant work that save the Children do , I have be intimately connect with Save the Children for the last 20 year and we honour both its work and the success it so often achieve . everybody want the bloodshed to stop ; the question be how to secure that ambition in a lasting way , not whether we should seek it . for my constituent , that matter not just as a policy for the UK Government , but for the people on the ground , who be our neighbour and directly affect . may I have a few precious moment of the Minister ' s time to help to offer they just a crumb of comfort ? for 30 day they have not hear anything . both Oded and Ibrahim be at direct risk of harm due to Hamas and the israeli missile . Oded , the father of one of my constituent , be kidnap by Hamas , and the Prime Minister make a personal pledge to assist he . Ibrahim be at risk because we do not yet know why he and his family have not be able to cross the border at Rafah . may I seek an urgent meeting with the Minister to look specifically at those two case and to find those ray of light we all desperately want for my constituent ? in response to the hon . Lady ' s request for a meeting , she will know that the crisis centre in the Foreign Office , which be full of both willing volunteer and expert in these consular matter , will be the right place to take this issue . however , I will certainly meet she immediately after this statement . a doctor send a message last night from Gaza say , " we have worm come out of wound even after we do surgery . nothing be clean . nothing be sterile . " it be clear that we need an urgent cessation of hostility on all side on humanitarian ground , because the situation in Gaza be now unspeakable . at the same time , as well as condemn settler violence in the west bank , we need more action to bring an end to it . may I bring the Minister back to a question of accountability under international law , follow the question from my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) ? will the Minister confirm that the Government support the independence of the International Criminal Court and recognise its jurisdiction to address the conduct of all party in Gaza and the west bank ? we be very strong supporter of the International Criminal Court , and that have be true under government from both the main party . on the hon . Lady ' s important point that we need to see an end to settler violence , the Government entirely agree . my hon . friend the Member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) set out in the most powerful way why the death and trauma experience by innocent child in Gaza be utterly intolerable . the supply of basic utility such as water , medicine , electricity and fuel need to operate the hospital in Gaza should not be block . it be unacceptable that siege condition be still be impose on Gaza by Israel . can the Minister confirm that he agree , and what have he do to communicate that to Israel as a matter of urgency ? the Government at every level be engage in those discussion with the state of Israel . the hon . Lady list a number of humanitarian supply that need to get through , and Britain be at the forefront of the international community in do everything we can to ensure both that they do get through , and that there be sufficient supply in the region . I will not take up time now , but we will forward the report from Doctor Hassan at the indonesian hospital in Gaza regard the treatment of child with no hand and stage 4 burn . however , we must remember that 30 of the hostage be child too . I believe in an immediate ceasefire , but I be willing to clutch at straw as well . have the Government verify in any form with Qatar the report that Hamas might be willing to agree a release of civilian hostage for a five - day ceasefire , and have the Government engage at all with the proposal by the family of hostage for an " all for all " release of hostage for prisoner of Israel ? the right hon . Gentleman be a very senior member of this House and he know that I can not give he a running commentary on hostage negotiation . however , I can confirm to he that Qatar have be exceedingly helpful and that release the hostage remain at the very top of our list of priority in this dreadful situation . I hate to disagree with my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , but I be not sure we can exactly trade hostage in these condition . however , do Minister agree that the immediate release of the hostage would go a long way towards enable the condition for the kind of humanitarian pause or pause that we need if we be to deliver aid in the manner and on the scale that we all think be necessary ? yes . as a person of jewish heritage , I be mortify and horrify by what happen on 7 October , but I do not for one second believe that any palestinian child anywhere be responsible . yet the Secretary - General of the United Nations have say that Gaza be " a graveyard for child " and that the Israelis be commit war crime , and have call for humanitarian peace . we help to create the United Nations . we be permanent member . be it not time we get behind the Secretary - General , who speak with great moral authority on these matter , and ourselves call for a ceasefire ? the british role at the United Nations be second to none in try to stop what be happen in Israel and in Palestine . the point I would make to the hon . Gentleman be that Hamas know exactly what they be unleash on that dreadful day of 7 October , and the blame for what have happen should be allocate precisely where it rest . Gaza use to be describe as a " prison camp " — that be what Prime Minister David Cameron call it in 2010 . this week the United Nations Secretary - General call it " a graveyard for child " . More than 10 , 000 Palestinians have be slaughter in Israel ' s assault , nearly half of they child . it would take nearly six hour to read the name and age of every child kill so far . yet that horror have be give the green light by this Government . today I table an amendment to the Humble Address call for an immediate ceasefire , a move back by 76 % of the british public . will the Government finally do what be right and demand an immediate ceasefire to end the bloodshed ? while the hon . Lady be eloquent on the effect , she be not so eloquent , in my opinion , on the cause . in respect of the amendment that she have table , of course that be a matter for the House , but it will not be support by the Government , nor by those on her own Front Bench . almost 1 , 200 constituent have be in touch with my office demand a ceasefire now . Oxfam have say that humanitarian pause and safe zone be simply not enough to address this humanitarian crisis , and it be far from alone in say so . can the Minister explain to my constituent and to Oxfam why he will not support a ceasefire ? I will not try your patience , Mr Deputy Speaker , by repeat what I have already say . the hon . Lady say that pause be not enough , but there have not yet be any pause . that be why we be work so hard to try to achieve they . I thank the Minister for his statement , but how will he ensure that humanitarian aid , which he have assure the House will get to those in Gaza , will actually get there ? we be get report that there be hospital in the north that have only 24 hour ' worth of fuel . we be see and hear horrific report of child die , and of people try to work in those horrific circumstance . what be we do to help those people ? it be too much . we be cry ; we be upset . it be go on and on . we have statement to the House , but they be not enough . People need to know that we care and that we will make a difference . I do not think there be any doubt that , across the House , we care deeply about what be happen there . the hon . Lady ask how we will achieve access for humanitarian aid , and rightly make the point that it be not get through in anything like sufficient quantity at the moment . that be why we be do everything we can , across the international community and the humanitarian sector , to ensure that the pause be implement and take place as soon as possible . we be see a humanitarian catastrophe of unfathomable depth unfold among the world ' s young population . last week , the UN General Assembly vote on a resolution call for the " immediate , full , sustained , safe , and unhindered humanitarian access " for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , as well as an " immediate and sustained humanitarian truce lead to a cessation of hostility " . the United Kingdom abstain . the resolution be support by France , Spain , Belgium , Switzerland , New Zealand and 115 other nation . why do the UK abstain ? if a similar resolution come again , will the UK vote for it ? do the UK support Pedro Sanchez , who put a motion before the European Council call for a peace conference after the conflict have finish ? do the UK join that call ? if another motion come before the United Nations , Britain will of course look at the term of that motion and discuss it together with our ally and like - minded country who , like the hon . Gentleman , want to see an end to these dreadful circumstance . in respect of the last motion and Britain ' s decision not to oppose it but to abstain , he will have see the reason set out by the Government . for any new motion put before the United Nations , we will vote in the way that we think be good in these dreadful circumstance . the Secretary of State have say that he be discuss with partner how to increase the amount of aid go into Gaza , and that humanitarian pause must be part of that , but how long must a humanitarian pause be to live up to that name ? infrastructure need to be repair , and an enormous amount of aid need to be shift , in a very short time . be there consensus with those partner on how long a humanitarian pause have to be ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point , but these matter be the subject of intensive negotiation at this time . we know that multiple respected humanitarian organisation on the ground in Gaza and Israel have call for a ceasefire of all party . we know that , historically , ceasefire break down and be maintain again only with international support and pressure , so how many horror and death do the Government believe we must see before that pressure come from the international community ? if , as he say , the Minister believe that multiple humanitarian pause be achievable on all side , when will that hope be transfer to a permanent , lasting ceasefire ? although it be not the policy of the Government or Opposition Front Benchers to call for a ceasefire , we be call for comprehensive humanitarian pause to enable we to reach civilian in the desperate circumstance that the hon . Lady describe . I concur with the call for a ceasefire . since 7 October , an estimate 39 journalist have be kill in the conflict . that make it the most deadly month for journalist in almost 30 year . what more can the Government do to stress to the israeli Government the importance of safety for journalist and their safe access ? accurate reporting on this be crucial . the hon . Gentleman be entirely right to raise the point about the number of journalist who have sadly lose their life . many very brave journalist be in the area try to ensure that we get accurate reporting of what be go on there — they risk their life in that respect . when my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer be Foreign Secretary , he specifically implement a number of change to try to defend journalist who be catch up in those sort of difficulty , and the British Government strongly support the work that he set in train . in the scale of human suffering in the 7 October attack and the offensive in Gaza , we be draw to that of the child who have be kill or injure , and who continue to suffer . the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , have ask the Government to provide for a co - ordinator for aid to be appoint . will the Government meet that request ? we be certainly consider that as the situation evolve , but for the moment , there be many specialist fulfil a series of different purpose and different work in connection with the international situation . the human suffering in Gaza be unimaginable , and a humanitarian pause for aid be desperately need to save life . the UK have play a unique historical role , so what step be the Government take to support unicef and other in protect the million innocent child in Gaza ? unicef be one of the most highly respected United Nations organisation and agency . Britain have consistently be one of the most generous and strong supporter of UNICEF , precisely because of the effectiveness of that organisation . the hon . Lady may rest assure that we will work closely with unicef throughout this period , and that we profoundly respect the ability and reach that UNICEF bring to its work . yesterday a mother and five child — all UK citizen in my constituency — finally make it out of Gaza , have experience sight that no child should witness , literally walk past hundred of dismembered and decay body to reach safety . if war crime be commit , they should be investigate . will the Minister answer the question that he have deftly avoid so far : be there a role for the International Criminal Court in investigate the conduct of all party to this terrible war ? I do not think it fair to say that I be avoid the question . I be make the point , which I know the hon . Gentleman will understand , that Britain be one of the first country to support the ICC — it be not support by Russia , China or America , as I recall — so Britain ' s support and enthusiasm for the work of the ICC should not be in doubt . it be heartbreaking to hear of the fear and terror that cause 1 . 5 million people in Gaza to be displace . do the Minister agree that , for the 1 . 5 million Palestinians who have to flee , the right to return to their home be vital for long - term peace , especially give the history in the region ? have the Minister raise that in his diplomatic meeting , and what response have he receive ? we all hope that , eventually , the position in Gaza will be radically different from what it be today , and that the two - state solution will be implement . the two - state solution mean that Israel be able to live behind secure border and the state of Palestine emerge , so the answer to the hon . Lady ' s question be a fairly qualified yes . I thank the Minister for his statement and for his clear commitment to look out for the innocent in Israel and Gaza and to find solution — it be clear that that be what he want to do . it be understand that the egyptian Government have open the Rafah crossing for dual national to vacate the Gaza strip , and many have already take advantage of that . what step will the Government take to ensure that british dual national be guarantee safe passage via the crossing to get back to the UK for a much - love reunion with their family ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment — he always speak for the House on humanitarian matter . More than 150 british national have now come out , and all our country - base staff and dependent be out by last night . there be 32 british national who be wait for clearance , and 48 british national who have be clear and who be wait to come across when this statement start . that be the current position , and I hope that the hon . Gentleman will use the mps ' hotline to the crisis centre for any of his constituent who be catch up in this , so that we can give he the most accurate information available . the charity Medical aid for Palestinians have warn that people be struggle to find food and water and meet their basic need , and that even the minimal humanitarian aid that have be allow in be unable to be distribute fully , due to the damage road and lack of fuel for truck . the north of Gaza be basically receive no aid at all , so can the Minister set out how the Government be work with international partner to ensure that urgent fuel and humanitarian supply be not only get into Gaza , but throughout it , to help those in desperate need ? the hon . Lady rightly draw a distinction between get humanitarian supply into Gaza and be able to distribute they safely . these be very challenging circumstance , for the reason I have set out to the House , but she may rest assure that the international humanitarian community be do everything it can to address they . the World Health Organisation estimate that there be 50 , 000 pregnant woman in Gaza , with an average of 180 give birth every day without access to obstetric service and , of course , baby be bear into a war zone . can the Minister outline what work be go on to make sure that humanitarian aid be get to those pregnant woman , new mum and baby ? the right hon . Lady describe an extremely difficult situation , one that have be ventilate in the press , where we have see that woman be have to give birth in the most hideous of circumstance . what I can say to she be that if we be able to get aid in , we have specific humanitarian aid and support for mother of baby — for mother who have just give birth — and when we be able to get access in that respect , we will do everything we can to meet that need . thousand of child be dead . many more be traumatise , million be be starve , and as we have hear , the UN have describe Gaza as become a " graveyard for child " . we all agree that Israel have the right to respond to the senseless and brutal attack of 7 October , but many of we , include hundred of my constituent , believe that this response be utterly disproportionate . with the UN , the WHO , and the lead prosecutor of the ICC warning of breach of international law , will the Minister explain to the House what it will take for his Government to stand up to Netanyahu and his extremist Ministers and make clear that this abject suffering simply can not , and must not , continue ? because we be strongly supportive of Israel ' s right to self - defence — we have be absolutely clear about that throughout these dreadful circumstance , as have the opposition — we be able to have clear and firm discussion with the Prime Minister of Israel , and that be what we do . I abhor the loss of all innocent civilian life . dead innocent israeli man , woman and child and dead innocent palestinian man , woman and child have this in common : they be innocent civilian , and they be dead . this vicious cycle of killing must stop . as we be here to talk about the humanitarian situation , I remind the House that the Prime Minister tell we before Prorogation that he would use british logistical capacity to get hundred of aid lorry a day — rather than the ten that be cross at the time — across the Rafah crossing . by when do we expect that target to be meet ? the hon . Gentleman speak for everyone in the House when he abhor the loss of life among innocent civilian . on the humanitarian situation , he have refer to what the Prime Minister say before Prorogation . what the Prime Minister say be absolutely correct : Britain have not only be supply humanitarian provision into el - Arish so that they can go through Rafah when circumstance permit but have provide heavy lift material so that other , as well as we , can move those supply towards Rafah when they be able to get through . what the Prime Minister tell the House be what everyone , not just Britain , be try to achieve . I thank the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary for the work they have do to help facilitate the safe departure from Gaza of my constituent , Mr Abdel Hammad . Mr Hammad be in Gaza to perform kidney transplant operation as a charity volunteer with the Liverpool International Transplant Initiative . I pay tribute to his many year of humanitarian work in this field . as we know , there have be thousand of death in this terrible conflict , so will the Minister urgently press all party to agree to an immediate de - escalation and cessation of hostility , and will he do all he can to bring about a peaceful resolution to this devastating conflict ? in respect of the hon . Lady ' s last point , I be not sure I can add to what I have already tell the House , but I be very relieved to hear about her constituent . I will pass on her thank to both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary . the only route to long - term peace be a two - state solution . the Minister have say in response to other question that Gaza will look radically different at the end of this conflict , but can he commit to make representation to his israeli counterpart that all those displace in Gaza will be able to return ? the hon . Lady rightly identify the importance of get back to the two - state solution , which be the policy of the British Government and have repeatedly be the policy of british government . she may rest assure that Britain , along with its ally , be absolutely focused on the wellbeing of the people of Gaza and their future . it be very important to make clear that Hamas be not the Palestinians . to tackle this humanitarian crisis , we need to strain every sinew for a ceasefire . the UN Secretary - General say that we need a ceasefire , one bind on all side . the UN high commissioner for human right also say that we need a ceasefire ; so , too , do the head of the UN ' s Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs , the UN Children ' s Fund , UN Women , the UN World Food Programme and the World Health Organisation . in fact , the head of all major United Nations agency be call for a humanitarian ceasefire . why do this Government think that they know well than the world ' s lead humanitarian agency ? again , I be not sure that I can add to the very comprehensive and full answer that I have already give the House on that point , but let I make clear that it be not the policy of either the Government or the opposition to call for a ceasefire , for the reason I have set out . however , all of we across the House be engage in try to bring these dreadful event to a close . I agree that the need for humanitarian pause be urgent . with that in mind , what discussion be the Government have with regional partner , especially Egypt , to ensure that the Rafah crossing will allow for many more people to leave Gaza much more quickly ? far to that , can the Minister assure the House that when it be safe to do so , those people will be able to return quickly and safely ? I thank the hon . Lady for her support for humanitarian pause . she can rest assure that we be have detailed discussion with all our regional partner . in respect of Egypt , which she mention specifically , I have a discussion yesterday at around midday with the egyptian ambassador . in deprive the civilian population of Gaza of water , food , medicine and power , combine with the forced relocation of civilian , not respect the sanctity of hospital — indeed , bombing or threaten to bomb hospital — and target civilian infrastructure include refugee camp , Israel have break article 3 , 18 , 23 , 33 and 47 of the Geneva convention . what exactly do the Israel Defence Forces have to do before this Government call out Israel for its war crime ? I would not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s analysis , in his question , of the Geneva convention , but when he talk about the need for water , food and medicine , he may rest assure that Britain be focus very much on those supply in its humanitarian effort . in 2014 , a six - hour pause make way for a three - day pause before a ceasefire . this House must be on the right side of history , and I absolutely respect the Minister for the time and the tone of the statement today . however , do he agree that , for last peace , we must inevitably reach the point of a ceasefire , even after humanitarian pause ? will he assure I that he will press for that with our international partner to ensure that we have last peace in the region ? in spite of the hon . Lady ' s very generous comment , I can not agree with she , for the reason I have set out , about call now for a ceasefire , but I hope she will feel that the intention of the Government , along with our partner , in respect of humanitarian pause be move in the right direction . I understand the need for Israel to act to free the hostage and deal with Hamas , although the image we see and the number of child who have be kill can sometimes seem a very distant way away from those objective . on the latter of those aim , in relation to Hamas ' s capacity , I would like to know how the UK Government will judge whether that objective have be reach and whether we have reach a point when we say to Israel that that be enough ? I recognise that the hon . member be be supportive in say that the purpose of the israeli Government be to free the hostage and deal with Hamas . I be sure this will not be the only occasion when I come to the House to give a statement about both the humanitarian position and also the position throughout Gaza . when so many child be be horribly maim and kill , it really be not naive to call for a ceasefire . that be why so many international voice be call for a ceasefire , include my friend at the International Bar Association ' s Human Rights Institute . they have do that against the background of an assessment that the rule of international humanitarian law have not only be break by Hamas , but may be be break by the israeli Government . I be very disappointed to hear that the UK Government have not carry out an assessment of whether international humanitarian law be be obey on the ground in Gaza . this matter terribly to my constituent , many hundred of whom have write to I about it . may I suggest to the Minister that if the UK Government fulfil their obligation to carry out an assessment of whether international humanitarian law be be obey on the ground in Gaza , that might change both the UK Government ' s mind and the mind of the official Opposition , and make they support a ceasefire now ? the hon . and learn Lady be a distinguished lawyer , and she will know that the judgment she be ask the Government to make be not a judgment for Ministers and politician , but a judgment for lawyer in respect of international law , so I fear that I be not in a position , as a Minister , to give a direct answer to her question . I want to thank the Minister for the way he have conduct himself this afternoon , listen to the wide range of concern from right hon . and hon . member . my prayer and thought remain with the hostage , who have be kidnap for over 30 day now . they have to be release safely and urgently . I have receive so many email from constituent who be really concerned about the ongoing humanitarian situation in Gaza . I recently meet Islamic Relief UK , which be base in my Vauxhall constituency , and it share with I the harrowing story of one of its aid worker on the ground : " none of we have proper food , we ' re struggle to find water and we have no electricity . humanitarian assistance be not be allow into Gaza and I fear people will starve here . " that be a quote from an Islamic Relief staff member in Gaza who flee south with his family . these call be real , and these call be be make now . People be in desperate need of help . People be face a major crisis . what more will the Minister and this Government do to make sure they be speak to their israeli counterpart to ensure that that pause be real and that it come now , so we can get in urgent assistance and do not see more innocent civilian die ? I think the hon . Lady speak for the House about the importance of achieve the humanitarian pause , which have be greatly mention over the last hour and a half . I say to she that I know those at Islamic Relief extremely well , and I have visit they in her constituency . they do fantastic work , and we all honour and respect they for that . in her question , she talk about the importance of release the hostage and address humanitarian concern . those two thing be at the heart of what the House have be discuss today , and I thank she for end this session on a constructive note . at the start of the statement , I express the hope that the House would rise to the occasion , and I have not be disappoint . I particularly thank the Minister for the courtesy he have bring and the time he have give to this session . Bills present Data Protection and Digital Information Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Michelle Donelan , support by Secretary Suella Braverman , Secretary Steve Barclay , Secretary Kemi Badenoch , George Freeman , Julia Lopez , Sir John Whittingdale , Paul Scully and Alex Burghart , present a Bill to make provision for the regulation of the processing of information relate to identify or identifiable living individual ; to make provision about service consist of the use of information to ascertain and verify fact about individual ; to make provision about access to customer datum and business datum ; to make provision about privacy and electronic communication ; to make provision about service for the provision of electronic signature , electronic seal and other trust service ; to make provision about the disclosure of information to improve public service delivery ; to make provision for the implementation of agreement on share information for law enforcement purpose ; to make provision about the keeping and maintenance of register of birth and death ; to make provision about information standard for health and social care ; to establish the Information Commission ; to make provision about oversight of biometric datum ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first and second time without question put ( Standing Order No . 80a and Order , 17 April ) ; to be consider tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 1 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 1 - en ) . victim and Prisoners Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Alex Chalk , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Suella Braverman , Secretary Grant Shapps , Secretary Steve Barclay , Secretary Kemi Badenoch , Secretary Mark Harper , the Attorney General , Edward Argar and Miss Sarah Dines , present a Bill to make provision about victim of criminal conduct and other affect by criminal conduct ; about the appointment and function of individual to act as independent public advocate for victim of major incident ; about the release of prisoner ; about the membership and function of the Parole Board ; to prohibit certain prisoner from form a marriage or civil partnership ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first and second time without question put ( Standing Order No . 80a and Order , 15 May ) ; to be consider tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 2 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 2 - en ) . Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Kemi Badenoch , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Michelle Donelan , Secretary Lucy Frazer , Kevin Hollinrake , Paul Scully , Gareth Davies , Julia Lopez and Sir John Whittingdale , present a Bill to provide for the regulation of competition in digital market ; to amend the Competition Act 1998 and the Enterprise Act 2002 and to make other provision about competition law ; to make provision relate to the protection of consumer right and to confer further such right ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first and second time without question put ( Standing Order No . 80a and Order , 17 May ) ; to be consider tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 3 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 3 - en ) . renter ( Reform ) Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Michael Gove , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Mel Stride , Secretary Lucy Frazer and Rachel Maclean , present a Bill to make provision change the law about rented home , include provision abolish fix term assure tenancy and assure shorthold tenancy ; impose obligation on landlord and other in relation to rent home and temporary and support accommodation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first and second time without question put and commit to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order No . 80a and Order , 23 October ) ; to be print ( Bill 4 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 4 - en ) . economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Michael Gove , support by the Prime Minister , Oliver Dowden , Robert Jenrick , Robert Halfon , Stuart Andrew and Felicity Buchan , present a Bill to make provision to prevent public body from be influence by political or moral disapproval of foreign state when take certain economic decision , subject to certain exception ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first and second time without question put ( Standing Order No . 80a and Order , 3 July ) ; to be read the third time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 5 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 5 - en ) . high Speed Rail ( Crewe - Manchester ) Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Mark Harper , support by the Prime Minister , and the Chancellor of the Exchequer , present a Bill to make provision for a railway between a junction with phase 2a of High Speed 2 south of Crewe in Cheshire and Manchester Piccadilly Station ; for a railway between Hoo Green in Cheshire and a junction with the West Coast Main Line at Bamfurlong , south of Wigan ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first and second time without question put and commit to a Select Committee ( 20 June 2022 ) ; to be print ( Bill 6 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 6 - en ) . Holocaust Memorial Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Michael Gove , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary James Cleverly , Secretary Suella Braverman , Secretary Kemi Badenoch , Secretary Gillian Keegan and Secretary Lucy Frazer , present a Bill to make provision for expenditure by the Secretary of State and the removal of restriction in respect of certain land for or in connection with the construction of a Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre . Bill read the first and second time without question put and commit to a Select Committee ( Order , 28 June ) ; to be print ( Bill 7 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 7 - EN ) . Media Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Lucy Frazer , support by Secretary Michelle Donelan , Secretary Michael Gove , Secretary Chris Heaton - Harris , Secretary Alister Jack , Secretary David T . c . davy , John Glen and Sir John Whittingdale , present a Bill to make provision about public service television ; about the sustainability of , and programme - making by , C4C ; about the name , remit , power , governance and audit of S4C ; about the regulation of television selection service ; about the regulation of on - demand programme service ; about the regulation of radio service ; about the regulation of radio selection service ; for the repeal of section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 ; for address deficiency in broadcasting legislation arise from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 8 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 8 - en ) . Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Claire Coutinho , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Grant Shapps , Secretary Michelle Donelan , Secretary Kemi Badenoch , Secretary Mark Harper , Secretary Alister Jack , John Glen and Graham Stuart , present a Bill to make provision about licence to search and bore for and get offshore petroleum . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 9 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 9 - en ) . debate on the Address [ 2nd day ] Debate resume ( Order , 7 November ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . break down barrier to Opportunity it be an honour to open today ' s King ' s Speech debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government . education be the key that unlock the door to opportunity . get it right , and it be the single most transformative thing that any Government can do . that be why this Conservative Government have spend the last 13 year do just that . we have be take the long - term decision to ensure that the next generation have a bright future , because we know what happen when government get it wrong — [ interruption . ] when we start this journey in 2010 — Opposition Members be go to like this — we inherit Labour ' s legacy . it be a legacy define by politician say , " education , education , education " but fail to deliver . the result speak for themselves . at that time , more than a fifth of child leave primary school without achieve basic level of literacy and numeracy , and two fifth finish full - time education without even the bare minimum qualification . that failure entrench inequality and lock the door of opportunity . the education system work against child from place like where I grow up in Knowsley . it be a system that widen the gap between the rich and the poor in society . politician often say that talent be everywhere but opportunity be not , and they be right . I know that , because I live it . my fail comprehensive school leave many of my classmate without those precious opportunity . although some come to education later , many other never do — so much so that some be now in prison and other sadly have die many year before their time . it do not have to be this way . for five year , I sit next to those child . we all think we have a bright future ahead of we , as child often do , but sadly that be not the case for too many of they . education be about remove the barrier to opportunity and the belief that talent be everywhere . it be about the growth in confidence that our teacher inspire and the understanding that if the play field be level , no one ' s dream will be out of reach . that be what this Government be deliver , from the moment someone enter this world until they retire . will the Secretary of State give way ? let I make some progress before I take intervention . early this year , we announce the large ever investment in childcare in England ' s history . very soon , we will be spend £ 8 billion a year . that investment will ensure that every child get the good start in life . it mean that work parent will be entitle to 30 hour of free childcare from the end of parental leave until their child start school . to give parent the flexibility they need , we be roll out universal wraparound childcare for primary school child from 8 am to 6 pm . these conservative policy will end the choice that some work mum and dad feel they need to make between have a family and have a career , and it will save parent up to £ 6 , 500 a year . [ Official Report , 21 November 2023 , Vol . 741 , c . 3mc . ] the generation have child now will not remember what be on offer under Labour , but let I remind the House : 13 year of Labour deliver only 12 . 5 hour of free childcare for some three and four - year - old . that be less than one hour for every year in office . our childcare package give people want to start a family the confidence to do so . may I invite the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , when she stand at the Dispatch Box , to finally offer labour ' s support for our record childcare investment ? can she tell hard - work parent in Wales why her party be not roll out the same support that english parent will benefit from ? I know that the right hon . Lady , like I , do not grow up with privilege . I have hear she speak eloquently and passionately about the help and support she receive from Sure Start , and I know she be grateful for that support . I be sure there be many positive from that programme — indeed , my good friend use to run a Sure Start centre — but there be also some serious failing in the design and delivery . first , sure Start be not a universal offer , and it stigmatise people who use the service . plus , it only help family for the first five year of a child ' s life , but any parent will say that challenge can arise at any time . [ interruption . ] this be important : the National Audit Office find that sure Start have fail to target the most disadvantaged family and be even unable to identify family need support in the most disadvantaged 30 % of community . it simply do not reach the right people . when we launch our family hub programme , we ensure that the hub provide a service to anyone who need it . they be support family with everything from mental health to breastfeed , and housing and debt service — challenge that many of we need support with . the service be universal , available to anyone . family hub support family with child of all age , from conception to 19 , or up to 25 for those with special educational need . they join up service , ensure that every family get the right support at the right time . as part of that , the good start for life programme provide focus support during the crucial first 1 , 001 day of a child ' s life , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) for her work to get that right . before I talk about how we have transform our school , I will address one of the key challenge we face in deliver opportunity : school attendance . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will in a moment , honestly , but this be important . I want to address one of the key challenge we face , which be school attendance . follow the pandemic , we have see a phenomenon where more child be stay home and not go to school . that challenge be not unique to the UK . at the G7 , my counterpart from the US to Japan be all grapple with the same issue . I reassure the House that it be a top priority . we be make progress through our attendance hub and mentor programme , as well as more specialised support for key cohort , such as those with mental health issue or special educational need . in just the past year , 380 , 000 few child be persistently absent , and we will keep drive at this issue until all our child be back in school . I notice that the Labour party have a lot to say about attendance this morning , but the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) may have miss the 380 , 000 few child persistently absent in the past year . yet again , Labour offer little more than empty word , with a touch of student politic . in labour - run Wales , attendance rate be still far behind those in England . last year ' s attendance datum show that Wales only manage an attendance rate of 85 . 5 % , compare with England ' s 92 . 5 % . [ Official Report , 21 November 2023 , Vol . 741 , c . 4MC . ] that mean that english child be benefit from well over a week more education than those just over the border . I advise the Labour party to spend a little less time play politic , and more time help child . the child of Wales deserve well . I thank the Education Secretary very much for give way . what be crystal clear from the King ' s Speech yesterday be that , despite her grandiose statement here , education be not a priority for this Government . there be two re - announcement , nothing new and no new legislation , and her speech so far be revisit old announcement , which be shocking , consider the crisis in our school and college . she talk about persistent absence , so can she explain to the House why there be no announcement yesterday about bring forward legislation for a " child not in school " register , which Ministers promise to do when they scrap the Schools Bill in the last session ? the progress we have make on education be phenomenal . the legislation we have put in place have enable we to make many of these improvement , but we remain committed to legislate to take forward the " child not in school " measure , and we will progress those at a suitable future legislative opportunity . we continue to work with local authority to improve the non - statutory register , and have launch a consultation on revise elective home education guidance . there be a lot of work go on . the consultation be open until 18 January 2024 , and we intend to bring forward that legislation . this be a King ' s Speech for the UK generally . do the Secretary of State intend to say anything positive at all about Wales today ? as somebody who grow up in Liverpool , I have have many a fabulous holiday in north Wales . in term of the education department , unfortunately Wales suffer from a poor administration . let we move on to school . nowhere be the difference between Labour and the Conservatives clear to see than in our school system . when we come into office , Labour have oversee a decade of decline in our school . fortunately , thank to the tireless work of my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) and , notably , that of the Minister for Schools , we have reverse that trajectory . today , 88 % of our school be " good " or " outstanding " — up from just 68 % under Labour . by the end of the Labour era , we have plummet down the international league table : our child be rank 25th for reading and 27th for math . now , we be up 10 place in both . well still , the progress in international reading literacy study show that when it come to read , English primary school child be the good in the west , come fourth in the world — an amazing , phenomenal achievement , for which I thank our teacher , parent and child . how have we do this ? we have reform the school system , put teacher and expert — not politician — in charge of school . through our free school and academy programme , we have empower head and focus on academic excellence , improve discipline and ensure that school be calm , happy place to learn . we have build on the evidence , not the ideology , over the past decade . the Education Endowment Foundation have carry out over 200 evaluation to understand which approach be the most effective in close the attainment gap . it have engage 23 , 000 nursery , school and college and , as a result , teacher be well train in the thing that make a difference , and child be teach in way that we can prove work , such as phonic and math mastery . we have make our exam more rigorous and reliable ; and we have change how we teach for the well . and at every turn we be meet with a barrage of opposition from the opportunist on the Labour Benches . in 2011 , the opposition say that our literacy drive be " dull " . in 2012 , they say that phonic would " not improve read " . in 2013 , they call free school " dangerous " . all three accusation have be categorically prove wrong . our result simply speak for themselves , and we be not stop there . our new advanced british standard will remove the artificial divide between academic and technical education , and place the two on an equal footing , bring together the very good of a - level and t - level to form a single overarching qualification . right on cue , what do labour call this ? a " gimmick " . give labour ' s track record , that condemnation be a very good sign that we be on the right track . the advanced british standard will ensure that every child study a form of math and English until they be 18 , and equip our child with the skill they need for the future . they will be enter a very different workplace — one where artificial intelligence , and quantum and digital system , be a big part of every work day — and they will be compete for the top job internationally , so we will be increase the time spend in the classroom , bring we more in line with other country , include Denmark , Norway , France and the US . the Government ' s disregard for school pupil with special educational need have never be clear . the silent assassination of any new mental health Act have let down my constituent , who be struggle to get a diagnosis and to get continuous support in school . do the Secretary of State therefore agree that pupil and school urgently need new legislation ? we publish our special educational need and alternative provision improvement plan in March 2023 — the hon . Lady may have miss that as she be not yet in her place — and we have back the plan with investment of £ 2 . 6 billion between 2022 and 2025 . that will fund new and alternative provision place , and it be also a significant investment in the high - need budget . we know that we need to invest in improve the special educational need and alternative provision system , and I be happy to go through that plan with she . the Secretary of State ' s plan to increase math teach up to 18 be interesting . I wonder how she expect to deliver that when there be currently a shortfall of over 5 , 000 math teacher and the retention of math teacher be at an all - time low . how do she think she can deliver math teacher to increase math education when she can not deliver enough for child up to the age of 16 ? we have some initiative in place . first , we be raise the start salary to £ 30 , 000 for all new teacher across the country , and more in London . secondly , we be increase — in fact double — the premium we pay to math , computer science and some science teacher to enable they to earn more . that be the plan . we be also update our retention and recruitment strategy before the end of the year . anyone who want a blueprint for a Labour Government do not need to look back to the ' 90 and early - 2000 , when Labour oversee a decade of decline . no , they should look to Wales . after a quarter of a century run the education system in Wales , the Labour Administration preside over the worst - perform education authority in the UK . while in England we have increase the number of teacher by 27 , 000 , the number have fall in Wales . while our standard rise , Wales consistently have the bad result for math and read in the UK . those be fact . even before the pandemic , the head of the OECD say that the Welsh education system have not just " underperformed " but " see its performance decline " . there be nothing that stifle opportunity more than an education system in decline under Labour . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will in a second . we believe in the value that I have talk about — aspiration , standard and rigour — precisely because they deliver a bright future for our young people , and one that mean that , as they grow into adulthood , they can be sure that they be get the skill they need to succeed in life , to get a good job and to earn a good wage . that be the purpose of education : to help ensure that we have the skill to prosper and that every young person can reach their potential . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will ; just give I a second . the hon . Gentleman might want to answer this point . one thing that Labour do do be set an arbitrary target of 50 % of young people go to university — a policy that favour the most advantaged in society and only widen the gap . today , under the Conservatives , child who come from disadvantaged background be 71 % more likely to go to university than when we take office . let I be clear : university be a brilliant choice . for many , it will be the good thing they ever do — life - change — and a degree will be the first step on a wonderful career journey . but for some , in a minority of case , it will be a ticket to nowhere , saddle student with debt and no prospect . as a Welsh MP , I think that learner and teacher in my constituency of Cardiff South and Penarth would be shock to hear the Secretary of State denigrate their work and effort . the reality on the ground in Wales be that , in my constituency , I have see new brand - new school at Eastern High and Penarth Learning Community , and a brand - new further education college . we be also just open a brand - new school in Fitzalan . they have all have significant issue with performance in the past , but have turn thing around thank to the dedication of their teacher and the support they have have from Welsh Labour council and the Welsh Government . will the Secretary of State apologise for denigrate and run down Wales ? I be happy to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question . I always want thing to improve in Wales , and I very much care about the Welsh child . it be not my word ; it be the OECD and the international league table — which I believe they have actually withdraw from now because they do not want the scrutiny . we have to be open and transparent and put ourselves forward for international scrutiny , and that be where these word be come from . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will give way one more time to the hon . Lady . the Secretary of State be be generous . I be interested in her comment about some university degree not be of high value . I wonder how she seek to calculate whether those degree be not worth the same as other . do she intend to use the longitudinal educational outcome datum that look at average earning ? do she acknowledge that child who wish to stay in area such as Hull will earn less because wage be low in certain area , and that that have nothing to do with the degree ? would she reflect on the presentation give to the Treasury Committee recently , which say that outcome in life and how successful someone be in term of job and income be everything to do with their parent ' background and not the background or anything to do with the university that that person attend ? I be happy to come to that later . I be concern about ensure that child and young people in Knowsley , Manchester , Hull , Blyth , Teesside and all over the country get fantastic opportunity , so that their earning rise . that be what we in this party will continue to do . before the Secretary of State move on to what I assume will be high education , I want to raise with she a serious problem particularly in inner - city school in England : fall roll and , therefore , fall income to the school , which usually mean the loss of teach assistant job and all sort of other issue . this issue have affect rural area a lot in the past , and special arrangement have be make . be the Secretary of State aware of that ? be she consider what can be do to ameliorate this very serious problem , which damage the life chance of so many inner - city child ? the right hon . Gentleman make a good point . local authority usually work with we to capacity plan for demographic change , which often happen from time to time — they go up and down . when we be first elect in 2010 , we have to find 1 million more school place because the previous Administration have fail to do so . in some London inner - city school , the pandemic have change that more rapidly . we be look at that and the impact that it have have on rural school , as some have increase in demand . we be aware of that and we will work with school on it . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . in a minority of case , high education could be a ticket to ride to nowhere , saddle student with debt and no prospect . that be bad for student , the taxpayer and the reputation of our university , many of which be truly exceptional and admire all over the world . a meaningless and arbitrary target of 50 % of student go to university focus on the wrong thing : quantity over quality . that be why this Government introduce new power to clamp down on rip - off degree — something the opposition claim be an attack on aspiration . that could not be further from the truth . the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) may want to listen to this point , because it directly answer her question . average earning for compute graduate five year after graduation can vary from £ 23 , 000 — barely above the minimum wage — to £ 85 , 000 , depend on the university . student who choose computing probably listen to their parent and have think about their future career . they think that they have make a wise and smart choice . the attack on aspiration would be to let the next generation spend their time and money , only to end up with a degree that do not help they to achieve their goal . those who lose out from low - quality course be not the university but the young people who have be sell a false dream . many of we will know those young people . defend that be a short - sighted and , quite frankly , snobbish mindset that fail the very people whose education it be mean to help . I make no apology for this Government ' s commitment to high - quality education , whether at school , college or university . we have already announce that we will introduce recruitment limit to reduce the quota of low - quality course and account for earning as part of the quality regime , so that student know that they will get value for money and a return on their investment . I will make no apology for our work promote apprenticeship and technical education as an equally valid route . I know how transformational a good technical education can be : it get I to where I be today . as the only degree apprentice in the House of Commons , I will always champion high - quality technical education . it change my life and it have the power to change many more . as conservative , we will always work to break down the barrier to opportunity . today , there be more option to access high - quality technical education than ever before , but that have not always be the case . under Labour , T - level do not exist . under Labour , high technical qualification do not exist . degree apprenticeship for job such as lawyer , accountant and space engineer do not exist . skill bootcamp do not exist . the lifelong learning entitlement do not exist . institute of technology do not exist . why ? they be all introduce by this Conservative Government . in case Opposition Members be confused about what institute of technology be , let I tell they : they bring together education and business , provide skill in everything from aerospace to agriculture , and energy to engineering . do that sound familiar ? it should do ; labour ' s big new policy of technical excellence college be , effectively , little more than a rebrand of something that already exist . we have already deliver it . once again , Labour demonstrate that it have no new idea . it have have 13 year to come up with an original idea , and have fail even that . apprenticeship be not a new idea , as demonstrate by the fact that I do one many more year ago than I care to admit . what be new be that people can become a doctor , lawyer , account or space engineer . they can take degree apprenticeship in the NHS , Goldman Sachs , Morgan Stanley , Amazon , KPMG , PwC — the list go on . any career they aspire to , anywhere , they can do now via an apprenticeship . in fact , there be now more than 680 standard , include 170 degree - level apprenticeship , all develop hand in glove with more than 5 , 000 employer , none of which exist under the Labour Government . anyone do one of those apprenticeship today be do it because of the work of this Conservative Government . since 2010 , we have see 5 . 5 million people benefit from those apprenticeship . we want to support even more people to access these life - change opportunity , which be now on UCAS . from next year , young people will be able to apply for they alongside undergraduate course . my apprenticeship be my golden ticket . today , thank to this Government , million more people be be offer the same opportunity . hopefully , many future Secretaries of State will sit here , have go through that fantastic route . it be not just the young generation who need opportunity . we be all live and work long . many of we will have a second career , include I — this be my choose second career . for I , politic come after three decade work in international business . like I , many people will want to change . often , that will require new skill . some 80 % of the 2030 workforce be already in work today . we know that we need more people with new skill , unlock new opportunity . that be why we launch skill bootcamp . these be free , flexible course of up to 16 week , train people with an offer of a job interview at the end . they support people to gain skill in key sector such as digital , HGV driving , civil engineering , electric vehicle charge installation or as a wind technician . often , they be the first step into a brand - new career . our new lifelong learning entitlement also remove barrier to gain new skill later in life . People will have real choice about how and when they study , enable they to acquire life - change skill to improve their employment prospect . both those programme will give people the chance to transform their life totally at any stage and any age . this government have be define by our relentless drive to spread opportunity through well education . yesterday , the King ' s Speech continue that legacy . today be the perfect time to take stock of the impact of those reform . those who enter school in 2010 be the first generation of child educate under this Conservative Government . they will take their a - level and t - level this summer , and their future be bright than ever before . standard of reading be high , standard of writing be high , and standard of math be high . the next generation be come through , and their potential and their achievement be high than ever before . let we never forget how the Labour party leave we with an education system in decline — as , unfortunately , it continue to be in Wales . labour leave we with a limited childcare offer , decline standard in school , poor technical education and an arbitrary target of 50 % of kid go to university . and we know why : because they be political opportunist with empty word and meaningless promise , which will inevitably change . that be the difference between we : conservative deliver . we have deliver the most generous childcare package in our country ' s history ; we have deliver the high school funding ever ; we have deliver more high - quality technical education than any other government ; and we have deliver for adult look to learn new skill . as conservative , we do more than break the barrier to opportunity ; we take the long - term decision to create opportunity . now and in the future , every child will benefit from a world - class education because of the decision make by this Conservative Government . rise — Order . before I call the Deputy Leader of the Opposition , let I say that we have a pack speaker list . I do not want to introduce a time limit , but if member could think of each other and confine their remark to seven or eight minute to start with , that would be very helpful . I call the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and shadow Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . can I just say well do to the Education Secretary for the level of creativity and imagination in her opening remark ? in open this debate on behalf of the Opposition , Iusb want to offer a note of optimism after the miserable vision for this country ' s future present by the Government . Britain be cry out for last change that will see the ambition of our young people harness , the drive of our business reward , and the aspiration that exist around every kitchen table fully realise . we promise our child and grandchild that if they work hard , they will be able to get on , no matter what their background . we tell they that with enough graft , everyone have the opportunity to build a good life around what they do good and love most . but opportunity be build on security , so that people can live without fear that they might be evict or lose their job for no good reason at all . it be build on the foundation of a decent wage and a secure home . the Prime Minister and his party have take a sledgehammer to those foundation on which a good life can be build . People can no long be sure that by work hard they will get on , or that where they come from will not hold they back . the only certainty be that this Government will sit on their hand while work people graft and Ministers promise more of the same . last year , it be the then Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who lead the second day of debate on the Queen ' s Speech for the Government . this year , she be dance away through her party ' s conference with Nigel Farage — dance the right away , we might say — but it be the current Home Secretary who be dance to his tune . this week , she tell we her answer to homelessness : " take away their tent . " and her answer to crime ? to waste police time arrest charity volunteer for give the tent out . then there be the Prime Minister , who be so weak that he do not dare put the proposal to we but do not dare to distance himself from they either . he choose delay , while his Cabinet argue behind closed door . we know who be lead this dance and who be follow . that be the story of this King ' s Speech through and through : party before country . we need a king ' s Speech that would draw a line under 13 year of Tory decline , but instead we have a party so devoid of leadership that the only fight leave in they be to fight among themselves . but while Cabinet Ministers argue over headline , school across our country be literally crumble , with child cower under steel prop to stop the roof fall in . be there any clear example of a Government fail in their basic duty than the constant drip , drip of school be add to the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete list ? at the current rate , over 2 million child be at risk of regularly miss school by 2025 . that be one in four of all child currently at primary and secondary school . a lost generation of child in England be face a tidal wave of mental ill health , unable to get treatment through the NHS . yesterday , we wait for a plan for our child and young people that would see aspiration and ambition for everyone , a plan to prevent a child ' s background from be a barrier to their get on , a plan to deliver a broad , inclusive and innovative curriculum , a plan to get to grip with the epidemic of persistent absence and mend the broken relationship between school , family and Government , and a plan to enable every child to achieve and thrive . yet this sorry excuse for a government offer no plan for crumble building , no plan to broaden the narrow , outdated curriculum , no plan for the child miss from classroom since the pandemic , and no plan for the future . one of the thing that we do not hear about from the Education Secretary be the attainment gap between the wealthy pupil and the most disadvantaged , which be grow , as evidence by the Education Policy Institute and many other expert . we have see that small - group and one - to - one tutoring can be a really effective intervention for disadvantaged child , yet the national tutoring programme be not due to continue beyond this year . will the right hon . Lady join I in call on the Education Secretary to extend the national tutoring programme and fully fund it so that school can help the most disadvantaged pupil ? I will do well than that : I call on the Education Secretary and the Prime Minister to call a general election and let Labour take over . we will make sure that every child in this country have an opportunity . all too often , the prospect of child in Britain be limit by the circumstance of their birth , not open up by their opportunity in life . lead by our formidable shadow Education Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , Labour have a serious plan to boost child development and young people ' s school outcome , as well as to expand training route so that more people than ever be on pathway with good prospect by 2035 . this start at school . I do not think the Secretary of State understand that . I remember all too well feeling hungry all day at school and be unable to focus . I be proud to say that Labour will introduce breakfast club in every primary school . as my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South announce , Labour will be on the side of child and family . we will boost standard across school by reinstate the requirement for qualified teacher status , ensure that teaching be a respected and value profession . we will reset relationship with family , school , teacher and school staff . and Labour will end the tax break for private school to fund that investment in excellent state education for everyone . the fact be that young people be catch in a vicious Tory doom loop , deny the opportunity their parent have , leave behind by their Government from school to employment , and unable to rely on the security of a decent home and a secure job . what the Tory party have successfully build be a boulevard of broken dream . the Conservatives have break their promise to renter , to leaseholder , to house builder , and to all those who dream of own their own home . like a bad Santa at Christmas , they be dole out break promise in every direction . there be a broken promise to renter , with the ban on no - fault eviction kick into the long grass in an indefinite delay and with the Government blame a court system that they themselves have break , appease the vested interest on their own Benches rather than do the right thing for the country . there be a broken promise to leaseholder — not the integrated package of recommendation for enfranchisement , commonhold and right to manage propose by the Law Commission , but more cherry - picking and space - save from the Secretary of State . there be a broken promise to house builder : the Government say that they would bring back amend proposal to reform nutrient neutrality rule after their flawed first attempt be rightly reject by those in the other place , include many conservative Lords . we stand , and we stand , ready to agree on reform to build the home that we need while protect the river from pollution , but yesterday we hear not a word . the Government be never serious ; they be just play political game . and what about first - time buyer ? there be no target , no idea and no ambition . the Government be too weak to take on the blocker in their own party and deliver the change that our country need . the dream of a safe , secure and affordable home be move ever far out of reach . instead of home , all that the Government have build be a house of card . that be the difference between we . we have a recovery plan for secure home : a plan to build 1 . 5 million home across the country , with a reform planning regime that will unlock our potential . this be no time to wait . let we get Britain build again with a generation of new town , unlock growth across Britain with the big boost to affordable housing in a generation . the Government can not fix homelessness without increase the supply of housing , and they can not boost real growth unless worker have the home they need . we will not duck the difficult issue as the Tories have . we would abolish no - fault eviction and fix the break leasehold system once and for all . Labour be the only party that be serious about boost the supply of new home to buy or to rent and unlock the dream of a safe , secure and affordable home for all . the Labour party talk about 1 . 5 million new house ; we talk about 300 , 000 new house over the next five year . can you tell I exactly what the difference be ? I think the hon . Lady need to ask herself whether her Government have ever deliver on any of their housing target . they have not do so . they can pick a number out of the sky , but they have not deliver on it . they have not take on the blocker in their own party , which be why we be in this decline and do not have the house that we want in our country . but Labour will deliver those house , will take on the blocker , and will make sure that people do have a home for life . I have a sense of d é j à vu when I listen to yesterday ' s speech , because some of it sound rather familiar . let we take the pledge to " increase housing supply and home ownership by reform the planning system " . that be not say yesterday ; it be say back in 2014 , nearly a decade ago — and home ownership rate be low now than they be when the Tories come to power . or let we take this line , from 2013 : " my minister will continue to prioritise measure that reduce the deficit — ensure interest rate be keep low for homeowner and business . " well , that go well ! since the Government ' s disastrous mini - Budget , when they crash the economy , interest rate have go through the roof , and mortgage holder have be £ 580 a month bad off in the last year alone . or let we take this one : " my government will help more people … enhance the right of those who rent . " that be back in 2021 , and almost identical word have feature in every single Gracious Speech in the current Parliament . however , the pledge be first make in April 2019 , by the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . it be now five session , four and a half year and four Tory Prime Ministers later . they do not really like anything involve high speed , do they ? perhaps the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , will at least be able to say later whether he will commit to scrap section 21 by next April , five year after they pledge to do so . if they do not have support from their own Benches , I can offer ours , and if they do not achieve that in their last king ' s speech , we will do it in our first . this Government have fail young people not only from school to housing , but into employment too . yesterday ' s announcement be utterly out of touch when it come to the basic foundation of decent work . time and again — in fact , 20 time — Ministers promise an employment Bill that would not only protect worker but strengthen our broken labour market , boost productivity , retention and growth . they promise that enhance right and protection be just around the corner , but they never come . the promise to introduce a single enforcement body , a measure that be back by business and worker alike ? go . the promise to make it easy for father to take paternity leave ? disappear . the promise to end the cruel practice of fire and rehire ? up in smoke . instead , the Government have do nothing but fail worker , the public and business by double down on their fail approach to Britain ' s broken labour market . lead to the bad strike in decade . now the Government be get their excuse in early for Christmas , offer another stick plaster to distract from the Conservatives ' track record of failure . we all want minimum standard of service and staffing , but it be Tory Ministers who be constantly fail to provide they . I know : I be an Avanti West Coast user . only Labour can offer the change that Britain need , with industrial relation fit for a modern economy where issue can be resolve before they escalate . we will bring in a new partnership of co - operation between trade union , employer and Government , which will mean that issue be resolve before the need for strike . we will learn from other high - growth economy that benefit from more co - operation and less disruption by update trade union legislation so that it be fit for a modern economy . labour ' s new deal be our plan to make work pay and help work people to thrive , tackle insecure work and ensure good job and high living standard in every part of the country . the next Labour Government will present an employment right Bill to Parliament within 100 day of take office . we will offer a new deal for work people , with zero - hour contract ban ; fire and rehire go ; basic right from day one ; and a genuine minimum wage take into account the real cost of live that every adult will benefit from . we will go far and fast in close the gender pay gap , make work more family - friendly and tackle sexual harassment . our plan will benefit not just work people but be good for business and the economy . they will help to keep more people in work , improve productivity and put more money in work people ' s pocket to spend — the absolute route to real growth . that will also benefit business by end the race to the bottom by ensure that good employer be not undercut by those who use exploitative employment practice . by level up worker ’ right , Labour will be start a race to the top , with a future of work that provide opportunity , afford dignity and fuel growth in every part of the country — [ interruption . ] the public know you laugh at they , they see it all the time . sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I think Government Front Benchers need to listen . it would be good for they to understand what it be like for work people in this country after they crash the economy , send inflation sky high and put record number of tax burden on work people . I really do think they need to listen . the british people deserve a Government who match their aspiration ; a country where family have more money in their pocket , decent pay and good job ; a country where their child have the opportunity they deserve to thrive , where young people be not hold back by their background ; and a Britain where no one be write off and no one be leave behind . [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State chunter . call a general election and let ' s test . rise — order . while I have hon . member ' attention , I give a little reminder of the importance of address member not directly — the word " you " mean I — but through the Chair . I also give a little reminder of my advice on time limit . I thank his Majesty King Charles III for deliver the Gracious Speech yesterday , as other across the House have do . I make my contribution as the Member of Parliament for Aldridge - Brownhills , a patchwork of community , each with its own identity and a uniqueness to be recognise and celebrate , echo the industrial spirit of our past while look to the challenge and opportunity of the future . it be this theme of opportunity that I want to focus on , start with house and home . it be well know in this place and beyond that , together with the Mayor of the West Midlands , Andy Street , I be a passionate advocate of a brownfield - first approach to develop new home . in do so , we can be that truly regeneration generation , build new home and protect our precious green belt and green space , for which I will keep advocate . I welcome measure in the King ' s Speech to regenerate our town centre . by regenerate , reuse and recycle exist brownfield town centre and empty high street property , we can adopt a circular - economy approach to housing . it can be a win - win . good regeneration be also helpful — in fact , vital — in protect our green belt , which be critical to prevent urban sprawl . that be why they be create back in 1935 , and they must continue to be protect to prevent area such as those I represent from become subsume into the suburb of a great Birmingham . yes , I would have like more mention of planning in the King ' s Speech , build on the previous Session ' s Levelling - up and Regeneration Act . it be about time we stop use the green belt as a scapegoat for our country ' s housing shortage . housing and home be about not just build new home but make the most of what we have and develop a mix of housing . that bring I back to my point on regeneration , but it also bring I on to another housing matter , which I be pleased to see come forward at last . that be leasehold reform . I must declare an interest as a leaseholder , as I be sure many other member be , but I raise it because , far from its be an issue that affect only our city , leasehold affect constituency across the country , include my own . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities estimate that there be around 4 . 98 million leasehold home in England . that be a lot of home . it have become apparent in recent year — and in my inbox — that a raft of problem can affect leaseholder . [ interruption . ] I see the Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , nod in agreement . example include extortionate service charge and the complexity of extend lease agreement and marriage value . that cause stress and uncertainty for leaseholder and barrier for buyer , and it be time we sort it out . a report from the Law Commission have be sit in DLUHC for some time , so I gently say to the Minister , " can you get a move on with this , please , in the remain time in this Parliament ? " a lack of transport can be a barrier to opportunity . access to a good local train station will be transformative for community such as mine in Aldridge - Brownhills . station can help to reconnect small community , regenerate local economy and improve access to opportunity — to job , home and education . there be currently only eight place with a population of 30 , 000 or more without an operational railway station situate within 5 km . Aldridge be one of they . I urge the Government to push ahead with the next stage of this important project and to work with I and Mayor Andy Street to deliver a train station in Aldridge as part of Network North . we be make progress , so let we continue to do that . my constituent deserve to share the benefit of great connectivity . transport , housing , a safe community — all that matter , but so do skill to take advantage of job opportunity . I welcome the Government ' s determination to strengthen education for the long term , and invest in skill and education both for the future and for today . right now , the UK have 1 . 1 million job vacancy , yet there be still people seek work . we have to ask why . it could be partially explain by the misfortune of have a deficit of highly skilled people to take those job . the skill shortage be set to cost our country £ 120 billion by 2030 due to a shortfall of 2 . 5 million highly skilled worker . that should not be the case . the UK be a renowned global leader in academic excellence in education , so why be we suffer from a shortage of highly skilled worker when we should be a high - skill , high - wage economy ? maybe we be not invest enough in the right skill in the right area . there be a mismatch between skill and industry that we need to address urgently . I know , from speak to local business in my constituency , that there be vacancy for technician , mechanic and toolmaker . across the Black Country and the broad west midland , manufacture job be available , but there be a deficit of skilled people to take up those position . I be pleased to hear that the Government be focus on that and in particular on apprenticeship and technical qualification to ensure , most importantly , that our young people have choice and that they understand what those choice be . I be very fortunate to have in my constituency a company call In - Comm , which be one of the UK ' s lead training provider , deliver engineering skill , apprenticeship , training and upskille . the Minister with responsibility for apprentice be on the Government Front Bench . maybe he would like to come along and visit , and see the amazing work that it do with business and young people . I turn to the topic of safe community , which be also a theme and focus in the King ' s Speech . safe community be strong community and crime , sadly , be a scourge on our society . in recent year it have become all too prevalent in too many of our community . office for National Statistics datum show that in 2022 - 23 across the west midland we record the high rate of offence across England and Wales , with 178 knife crime per 100 , 000 of population . that equate to a staggering average of 5 , 197 knife crime offence per year . but those be not just number , be they ? behind every number be a story — a family , a love one , friend , colleague , a community . in my constituency , James Brindley fall victim to an unprovoked fatal stabbing in 2017 as he walk home from a night out . the James Brindley Foundation have a campaign to bring about positive social change and reduce youth violence . we urgently need the legislation now to deliver the promise ban on machete and zombie - style knife , and for the police to have the power to seize and destroy any weapon they find . that be something that I have campaign for . our local newspaper , the Express & Star , be also actively campaign on that . good work be go on locally , and it be connect to break down barrier to opportunity , but we need legislation now . I hope that measure will be include in the criminal justice Bill . perhaps someone on the Government Front Bench will be able to confirm whether that be the case . local policing also matter when it come to opportunity . [ interruption . ] I be keep an eye on the clock , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will get my skate on . I just want to touch on policing , bobby and building , which be at the heart of our community . we need safe community to remove barrier to opportunity . that be why I be disappointed that our police and crime commissioner be push ahead with sweeping cut to 30 police station across the west midland , include in Aldridge . that be a reckless choice from someone who be save Quinton while sacrifice Aldridge . [ interruption . ] I can hear people chatter , and I have say that I will bring my speech to a conclusion . we need long - term decision for the future , not short change for the short term . I urge Ministers to work with I and Andy Street , who know the west midland well than anybody when it come to break down barrier of opportunity . I will continue to press the Government to do more for my constituent and to continue deliver opportunity for the people , business and organisation I represent . rise — Order . I stress how important it be that we think of other when we make our speech ; otherwise I will have to put on a time limit . obviously , I will not do so for the SNP spokesperson , but I be sure he will also be considerate of other . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a real pleasure to open for the Scottish National party on the day after the day before . I think of this as a constitutional boxing day , when we assess the quality of the turkey , see how the hangover be get on and make sure that the odd crown or tiara have not be leave behind and that everyone get home with the right ermine robe . that bring I to the first barrier . do we have to do this so ostentatiously ? our constituent be suffer probably their bad cost of living crisis . some of those emerald and ruby that be describe by the BBC yesterday probably cost as much as a local authority budget . I know it be likely that the tribune of the people will be present the next King ' s speech and , keep with their political pallor , maybe it will have a bit more measure and be a bit more in keep with what this country deserve , particularly as it be go through a tough time . I already have constituent get in touch with I who be quite upset about the sheer ostentatiousness of what we observe . [ interruption . ] I will get to the substance . this be a King ' s Speech design to revive the Government ' s catastrophic fortune — they have be 20 percentage point or more behind in the opinion poll for about two year . this be an opportunity to reacquaint themselves with the british public ' s affection . how do they get on ? the sad news for Conservative Members be that the answer be : not particularly well . I doubt they want to see this morning ' s headline , which say that it be a dud , a dead duck , a miss chance , a fail opportunity — and that be only the Tory press . there be some real cracker , include " the Kingzzz Speech " . one newspaper say that Colin Firth ' s one be well . I particularly like the description " insipid " that feature in the National — probably the fine publication in the UK — because it be mine . this King ' s Speech have to work for the Government , as they be look for something to get they out to the stump to " stand up and fight " , as the Leader of the House say . they want red meat , but this King ' s Speech be like last week ' s boeuf bourguignon . it be not a fillet steak so much as offal , both literally and figuratively . they be look for populist measure to get they out there , and what do they get ? a smoking ban . this be the big congregation of right - wing Tories we will ever see assemble on these Benches , and I hardly think they would be standard bearer for progressive liberalism . even the Liberal Democrats have not propose a smoking ban . I support it , and I think it be great , but imagine a lily - livered liberal like I support a Tory measure . I do not know whether that be good news or bad news for they , but it be certainly not the red meat they want . there be so many contradictory and confuse thing in the King ' s Speech . the Government have style themselves as the friend of the motorist — the scourge of 20 mph neighbourhood — who will get rid of clean - air zone so that people have to breathe exhaust fume for the next few year . but what have they go and do ? they have only go and plan to legislate for self - drive car . so much for be on the motorist ' s side . there will not be any motorist any more . that be one measure that particularly intrigue I . I suppose they could be the scourge of 20 mph neighbourhood with an algorithm — that ' s the modern Tories for you . this be a last - gasp King ' s Speech . it be a bit like that 14 - year - old looking for a pack of cigarette in some future corner shop . this King ' s Speech confirm almost everything we know about this Conservative Government . it be a legislative programme from a " can ' t be bother " Government with nothing more to say , who be just wait to be put out of their misery . the theme of today ' s debate be " break down barrier to opportunity . " the opportunity that the whole country want be the opportunity to kick the chaotic Tories out of power , and the barrier to that be their refusal to give we a general election so that we could achieve that objective . another opportunity that Scottish National party member be look for be the opportunity to get my nation away from this place . this King ' s Speech be deliver by a government we do not vote for , and who be do thing that we do not approve of and that we do not want . would it not be well if my nation be govern by the people who live and work in Scotland ? just by say that , even I might be label an " extremist " . there be lot of talk about the red meat that be suppose to be include in all of this — all this stuff about turf homeless people out of their shelter on the street of the UK — but another thing the Government be consider be extend the definition of an " extremist " to cover people who seek to undermine the integrity of the UK . that be my political mission . my job here be to ensure that the UK be undermine and that my nation become free and independent . I do not know whether the Government be now think about extend the definition of " extremist " to cover half the people in Scotland who currently support scottish independence — I be look forward to see they try to bring that one in . of course , very few Bills in this King ' s Speech apply directly to Scotland , which be not even mention in the King ' s Speech . I have be listen to the pain of my hon . friend the Member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) , who note that it contain no mention of Wales either . apparently , we be tell in some of the document that 20 of these Bills somehow apply to Scotland , but they barely touch the side of the scottish experience and the condition that my constituent be live in just now . we be look for practical measure that deal with the reality of the situation for our constituent , such as proposal to deal with the cost of live crisis and to help people through this winter and with their energy bill , which will remain sky high . nothing in the King ' s Speech do that . the Scottish Government , my colleague in Edinburgh , be have to pick that up , with the transformative scottish child payment . the one thing we have in our gift that we can deliver to the scottish people be freeze council tax , and that be exactly what we be do . where we be in charge and have the responsibility , we will make that difference to the living standard of people in our nation — something this Government be not prepared to do and I be proud that our Government be do it . I be set out the opportunity that we will give to bring dignity back and to tackle the real issue that be be experience . it seem as though the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Department for Education be lead this debate , but nothing in this King ' s Speech deal with either of those area . thank goodness that be the case in education ; I say that after listen to that drivel from the Secretary of State , with the Government ' s ideological venture in education . it have absolutely nothing to do with scottish education and so we can get on with make sure that we deliver for our child . while the Tories be fascinate with take on poor degree and university course , we be make sure that young people in Scotland get the destination they deserve . we have see fantastic figure , with 95 . 7 % of 2022 school leaver in Scotland have now secure that positive destination ; they have go into work , training or further education . the national 5 pass rate be up from 78 . 2 % in 2019 to 81 . 6 % in 2022 , which be our good exam year ever . high exam pass rate increase from 71 . 7 % in 2007 to 80 . 3 % in 2022 . thank goodness we do not have the Tories involve in any of our devolved service , because if they be , we would end up be subject to that drivel we have hear . of course , we also have no tuition fee in Scotland , which mean that student from Scotland do not have the crippling , sky - high debt that these tory seek to burden our young people with at the beginning of their life — thank goodness for that . of course , there be one bill that totally apply to Scotland : the Bill that seek to have an annual licensing round for North sea exploration . it perplex I , along with many people in Scotland , because I remember — you be here too , Madam Deputy Speaker , so you will remember — that during the debate about scottish independence the Government and the " Better together " side tell we that Scotland ' s oil and gas be just about to run out . we be tell that we be curse with this stuff and that even have it would impoverish we , but now we find out that North sea oil and gas will liberate we from foreign reserve , reduce bill and give the nation the energy security it need . what a remarkable resource we have in the North sea : it can simultaneously be run out and a curse , while rescue the UK from its current condition when it come to oil and gas . that , of course , be all absolute bunkum . apparently , we will get to net zero more efficiently by take more carbon out of the ground , burn it and then release it into the atmosphere . no one believe that sort of bunkum science other than the Tories . this Government have already water down the climate target , push back the deadline for sell new petrol and diesel car and the phasing out of gas boiler . by far the good way to improve energy security , cut bill and support worker be through invest in more renewable . extract more oil from the North sea will not help energy security in Britain or reduce bill . our oil be own by the big company , such as Shell and BP , which extract it and sell it into the international market . we then buy it back at market rate . the new licence will make no difference . the way to reduce dependence on foreign oil be to reduce dependence on oil — it be as simple as that . after 14 year , be this really the good the Tories can do ? they be now at the stage where they be want change — change from themselves . yes , we all want change , but the change that we all require and need be to get rid of the Conservatives . at some point in the course of the next year , they will meet their destiny with the british people , which I suppose and suggest will not be good for they . the King ' s Speech have not work for they . they probably have one last chance and effort when it come to the autumn statement , but I do not think anybody be expect they to get out that way . I do not just want rid of this Conservative Government ; I do not want the Westminster Government impact and affect decision make in this country . we will get there , Madam Deputy Speaker , first by make sure that they be replace and then make sure that Scotland have the opportunity to decide its own future . believe I , when that opportunity come , Scotland will make its position dead clear and we will be leave this place for good . Pageantry be one of our country ' s great strength , with yesterday ' s state opening of Parliament reaffirm our standard and value to the world . I be proud of our royal family , our country and our democracy . it sadden and concern I that a significant minority do not share my view . some of they plan to march in London during this remembrance weekend , which be a time reserve for quiet reflection about those who have die serve in our name . they give the ultimate sacrifice . the right to protest peacefully in this country be long hold , and rightly so . however , Saturday ' s march must be ban . not only be it disrespectful , but there be a genuine risk of disorder , potentially on a large scale . I urge those who be genuinely concerned about the war in Gaza to stay at home on this special weekend of Remembrance . to those who do attend , I say there can be no other reason other than to cause trouble . as for the King ' s Speech , I have mix feeling . with a year to go before an election , I be always look for red meat — certainly for a far strong narrative . to be fair , no Bill alone can tackle the huge challenge the country face , such as our debt , foreign war and the consequence of the pandemic . what the nation be look for be a healthy dose of common sense , a re - emergence of british value and an end to all this wokey , politically correct nonsense that be corrupt all that we hold dear . a ban on smoking and the orwellian driverless car be not top priority either . the british people be cry out for a clear choice . for too long , with our high taxis and bloated state , we have ape those on the Opposition Benches , spend money that we simply do not have . courage and conviction be need now , and we do see hint of that in the King ' s Speech . tougher sentencing , more money for our armed force , and more doctor , nurse and dentist , to name but three , be all positive and be to be welcome . however , word be easy ; it be back they up coherently that count . for example , a new ambition to raise defence spending from 2 % to 2 . 5 % be good news , but arbitrary target be meaningless . would it not be more sensible to calculate what we need to defend our island and fulfil our NATO obligation before we even think of set target ? our armed force be under - resourced — and this when the world order be under threat . another ambiguity be the new licensing regime to extract oil and gas from the North sea . while totally sensible , punitive taxis be hardly go to encourage company to take such a risk . to secure investment , countless job and our energy security , the industry urgently need low taxis . oil and gas will continue to play a role in our economy for many year to come . to deny that will condemn the country to abject misery . why be there not a Bill to redraft the Climate Change Act 2008 , which will simply impoverish we , and scrap all the green taxis ? I be all for reduce carbon emission , but not until the renewable be reliable and affordable . and let we not forget nuclear , which will be a crucial part of the mix . welcome , too , be the reform of tough sentencing for serious offender . but , while those offender will spend more time in jail , those commit less serious crime will evade it because we have reach full capacity . new prison be be build , but not fast enough . one Bill that I would like to have see in the King ' s Speech be one reintroduce national service for those who need a hand up , and that number be sadly grow . we already spend billion of pound on encourage reliance on the state . let we spend that instead on instill in people that life be about contribute , about service , and about take responsibility for one ' s self . I hope most sincerely that the much - await autumn statement will go some way to answer some of my concern . what we need right now be a clear vision base on sound conservative value . we be conservative , so let we start act like they before it be too late . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate . the Secretary of State ' s attack on sure Start , which be dismantle by the Conservatives , be completely ill - conceive . the one area where I think she do have a point be in her attack on the state of secondary education when she be a pupil and the Thatcher Government be in charge . thankfully , the Labour government that follow have address those very serious problem that she suffer from when she be at school . in open the debate , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) be absolutely right to take the Home Secretary to task for her attack on people force to sleep on the pavement in tent , and for her description of they have make a " lifestyle choice " to do so . it be hard to understand how somebody hold such a crucial role in the government of this country can have no grasp of the harsh reality face far too many people during the current crisis . in open the debate on the King ' s Speech yesterday , the Prime Minister spend some time , quite rightly , talk about the situation in the middle east . I want to take the Home Secretary to task again for her description of those take part in the recent Palestine marche as have take part in a " hate march " . she owe those marcher an apology . no doubt she have not speak to any of they , but the constituent whom I have speak to who have be take part in those marche have no truck at all with the appalling massacre and hostage - taking by Hamas . they be definitely not motivate by hate ; they be motivate by distress and compassion . they see appalling image , refresh on their screen hourly , of child be kill and maim . some have tell I they can not sleep at the moment because of their distress at what be happen . they want it to stop . surely we all want it to stop . the Home Secretary may reach a different conclusion from those who have be on the marche , but she be absolutely wrong to impugn their motive so unfairly . unlike the hon . member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) , I think that the Metropolitan Police Commissioner be absolutely right in his decision about the march this weekend ; there be no lawful basis for a ban . I be glad that the Prime Minister have make a renew commitment to deliver a two - state solution — two secure state alongside each other in peace — but we have all be say that for so long and nobody have do anything to make it happen . the Government of Israel have for year be undermine that prospect . one of the criticism they will have to answer when the fighting stop be why their soldier be off protect people live in the still - expand illegal settlement in the west bank when they should have be protect israeli citizen in their own country , who be leave undefended in the Hamas attack . the renew commitment to a two - state solution from the Prime Minister , which I welcome , must be deliver once the fighting stop . like other , I be strike by omission from the King ' s Speech . it refer to proposal be publish to reform welfare and support more people into work , but there be no sign of any Bill . the Government have be undertake a rush consultation last only eight week over major proposal to change the descriptor for the work capability assessment . on the Work and Pensions Committee , we have hear from organisation such as Citizens Advice about the deeply unsatisfactory nature of that rush exercise , and the consequence for people who be out of work on health ground . the Government ' s own Equality and Human Rights Commission have say that " the consultation period be insufficient to enable disabled people and their representative organisation to respond meaningfully . " the Select Committee ask on a unanimous cross - party basis that the consultation be extend so that it can be do properly . unfortunately , the Secretary of State reject our request . there will have to be legislation to make whatever change be decide on , but there be no mention at all in the King ' s Speech of a Bill to do it . there be a puzzle here , because the Government have announce that they plan to abolish the work capability assessment in a couple of year anyway . that will require legislation , but there be no Bill to do any of those thing in the King ' s Speech . there be press report that the Government intend to inspect benefit claimant ' bank account regularly . that will also require power , but there be nothing in the King ' s Speech that would have that effect either . there be no pension Bill . the Government consult on proposal for the consolidation of define - benefit pension scheme in 2018 . finally , after five year , the Government respond to that consultation in July this year . consolidation be important for the ambition to secure more pension scheme investment into the UK economy , as set out by the Chancellor in his Mansion House speech . in that speech , he speak of " introduce a permanent superfund regulatory regime " . the commitment of the Minister for Pensions to have a permanent regulated regime for superfund as soon as parliamentary time allow be very welcome , but there be not a Bill . the aspiration that the Chancellor set out not very long ago will not be fulfil by this King ' s Speech . in evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee , the chief executive of Clara - Pensions say that in an " ideal world " legislation for superfund " would be enact today . " Luke Webster of the Pension SuperFund say that the direction of travel set out in the Department ' s response be " very helpful and have that properly define in regulation would give a lot more confidence to investor and those involve in deliver these proposal . " but there be no Bill . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne point out in her opening speech , there be no employment Bill either . ever since the Taylor review six year ago , Ministers have promise a Bill to regularise the status of people work in the gig economy , ensure access to a pension scheme and other right that Parliament have determine they should have . it be in the Queen ' s Speech in 2019 , but yesterday it be miss once again . today the Trussell Trust announce the high ever level of food bank demand . in the six month to September , more than 1 . 5 million emergency food parcel be give out — 16 % more than in the same period last year . nothing in the King ' s Speech address that disgrace . will the right hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I think I have well wind up , consider the advice you have give we , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Chancellor must at least uprate working - age benefit in line with September ' s inflation to avoid make matter even bad . it be a pleasure to speak in this historic debate follow the first King ' s Speech in more than 70 year . opportunity manifest in many way , but one thing be clear : it be the Conservatives who be the party of opportunity . as a comprehensive school student during the Thatcher year , I be inspire to look for opportunity and seize they — not to expect to be give a handout , but to work hard as a way to achieve my ambition . I recognise that I have be very lucky . I have have many opportunity and some success along the way , and one reason I seek election to this place be to help to give other people well opportunity , whatever their background or whatever may befall they . key to opportunity be the economy . that be the case for everyone , whatever walk of life they be in . too many people sneer at the private sector and criticise the profit motive , but it be entrepreneur who take the risk and make the investment , and business that create the job and generate the wealth . without they , there would be no money to pay tax and therefore no money to deliver the excellent public service we all deserve and want . I be delighted that his Majesty begin his Gracious Speech by state that his Ministers ' focus be on increase economic growth . we need to remove the barrier to growth if we be to remove the barrier to opportunity . that mean reduce regulation , incentivise investment and lower taxis , all in a fiscally responsible way . I be particularly pleased that the Government have commit to address the driver of low growth over increase the national debt . that be in mark contrast to the opposition ' s solution of more tax , more borrowing and more debt , but we should not be surprised ; after all , that have always be labour ' s way , and we know the shadow Chancellor be a fan of " cut and paste " . I share the Government ' s firm belief in the ability of education to break down barrier to opportunity and improve life chance . we be do that in Aylesbury , where our excellent school strive to give every child a brilliant start in life . Buckinghamshire be renowned for its grammar school , and deservedly so , if my recent visit to Aylesbury High School be anything to go by . the spirited question from its sixth former remind I somewhat of this place . however , it be not just academic education flourish in Aylesbury . since my election I have be a strong supporter of Aylesbury University Technical College , and I be extremely pleased to have be able to help to secure its long - term future . I be also pleased to see the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) — who I know be an equally ardent supporter of UTCs — on the Front Bench . I warmly welcome the Government ' s commitment to high - quality technical education , affirm in the King ' s Speech , and the parity of esteem that will be achieve with the introduction of the advanced british standard . that be how we open up more opportunity for young people , by provide option and educational choice — quite the contrast , once again , with those on the Opposition Benches , from whom all we have hear be the politic of envy in the form of tax independent school fee . that be red meat for the militant leave , but not a feasible plan for the Government . what well illustration could we have of the fact that on the conservative Benches we believe in opportunity for all , whereas the Labour party believe in division ? moreover , where well to illustrate the conservative commitment to opportunity than my own county , where Buckinghamshire ' s conservative council run the Opportunity Bucks programme to address education , health and income inequality ? while Buckinghamshire as a whole may be a wealthy county , part of Aylesbury struggle with considerable deprivation . to tackle that , ambitious plan be in place for the redevelopment of our town centre . I look forward to work with the local business community , local councillor and the Levelling up Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , who be on the Front Bench , to ensure that the right long - term decision be make for Aylesbury to remain a great place to live , work , visit and invest . unfortunately , these day it can be something of a challenge to get to Aylesbury and experience all that it have to offer , as a result of appal traffic congestion . much of that could be overcome by the rapid construction of the link road that have be plan to circle the town , so the formal announcement in the King ' s Speech of Network North be a welcome way to speed up the approval of funding for the south - east Aylesbury link road and the eastern link road project . that would go some small way to begin compensate for the huge disruption and devastation that have be cause in my constituency by the construction of phase 1 of High Speed 2 . it be a blight we see every day with woodland be fell ; it be a blight we feel every day sit in yet more traffic as hs2 ' s heavy good vehicle ruin our road . funding that come from the cancellation of phase 2 of hs2 would be an important contribution to great connectivity for individual and firm alike . as the Federation of Small Businesses tell I recently , connectivity be absolutely key to the success of company across the country . I will briefly address another barrier to opportunity : involvement in the criminal justice system . as the House know , prior to my election , I serve as a magistrate and be a member of the Sentencing Council and a non - executive director of his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service . my determination , and even passion , to improve the criminal justice system be one of the principal driver of my work in this place . over the past few year , we have see a welcome increase in the emphasis on get former prisoner into job , because we know that pay work can dramatically reduce the risk of reoffende . a job provide not only an honest wage but a sense of worth . sadly , however , too many ex - offender do not yet have that opportunity . that be partly because short prison sentence do relatively little to reduce reoffende , so I be pleased that the Government be embark on radical sentencing reform , especially by increase the focus on robust community order . the concept of a virtual prison be one that we should also explore — to seize the opportunity afford by digital innovation to create opportunity for personal change , growth and success . it be also right that for the bad offender , the entire prison sentence will be spend behind bar , and that , for the most appalling crime , life will mean life . that , too , represent opportunity : the opportunity for victim of crime to know that justice have be do ; and the opportunity for the public to be safe , secure and protect from harm — the Government carry out their first and prime duty to their citizen . whether in justice , in education or in the economy , the King ' s Speech set out Bills for the month ahead that show a bright future for our country — a bright future that can come only from this Conservative Government . we have speed up a bit . my guidance still stand , but it be now for speech of eight or nine minute . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) in this King ' s Speech debate . after 13 year of Tory Government , and three Prime Ministers in the last year and a half , this King ' s Speech offer we pretty thin gruel . there be no real vision for the future , there be nothing like a plan to get there , and it be nowhere near adequate to meet the challenge this country be face . the Speech contain just 21 Bills , six of which have be carry over from last year ' s parliamentary session . many of those include , such as on leasehold reform , turn out on close inspection to be pale shadow of what be promise by the Government . there be Bills that nod towards the need for reform but do not actually deliver meaningful change , or delay it so long as to be meaningless . they sit alongside such tower legislative ambition as a Bill to license pedicab in London . that legislative programme leave the challenge that my wallasey constituent be face virtually unaddresse : taxis be the high they have be for 70 year , mortgage be up , rent have skyrocket , the cost of live squeeze go on , inflation remain the high in the G7 , and food inflation be high still . growth be project to be zero next year , and the Bank of England have put the chance of a recession at 50 : 50 . after 13 year of this Government , our river and sea be fill with sewage , our school be crumble , 94 % of crime go unsolved , our transport system be in chaos , and over 7 . 5 million people be on an NHS waiting list . where in this King ' s Speech be those thing address ? food insecurity be once rare ; now , in the past year in a rich G7 country , over 11 million of our fellow citizen have experience it . in my constituency of Wallasey , the number of emergency food bank parcel provide by the Trussell Trust have increase by 57 % since the last general election . on the Wirral as a whole , over 16 , 000 people receive emergency food parcel last year , a third of whom be child , and in the country as a whole , nine child out of 30 in a class be grow up in poverty . this legislative plan do not even mention , let alone begin to address , the daily struggle and hardship that million of people in this country be now face . as my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) mention , there be some notable omission from the speech , include a promise reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 ; an employment Bill to give worker a fair deal ; and the Tory manifesto promise to ban conversion therapy for LGBT + people . there be no sign of the promise reform of audit rule — bore to some , but quite important to the good working of our economy — and as my right hon . Friend point out , the promise reform of pension be also absent . despite the Prime Minister ' s much - vaunted summit , there be no regulation of artificial intelligence anywhere to be see , either . we have a Government who have long since cease to govern , who seem uninterested in tackle the serious issue our country face and who seek division , rather than solution . we have a programme for the final year of this Parliament that be brief out by senior Tories as be design to set " trap " for Labour in the forthcoming general election campaign . the offshore petroleum licensing Bill be one such example : the industry say that the Bill will make no difference whatsoever , and the Secretary of State have be force to admit that it will not lower energy cost for consumer . while rough sleeping be up 74 % under the Tories , we have a Home Secretary who , instead of solve the problem of the housing shortage , want to make it illegal to give tent to the homeless . she claim they be indulge in a " lifestyle choice " by have the temerity to sleep on our street . we have five criminal justice Bills that toughen sentence for convict criminal , but have nothing to say about the huge and grow backlog of criminal case — some of which be take two year even to get to court — or about the plummet arrest and conviction rate for serious offence . they be tinker , not deal with the real issue . rather than do the day job , this tired and incompetent Government be grind to a halt . they seem much more preoccupied with pursue their own internal factional fight than address the grow need of the country . even now , it be possible to discern the loom battle to be the next leader of the Opposition commencing between the current Home Secretary and the Trade Secretary . we can spot the dwindle band of Boris Johnson supporter publish absurd , conspiracy - laden book such as " the Plot " to explain his defenestration , when the rest of we only need to follow the covid inquiry to appreciate what the real explanation be . as the previous Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) tour the world proclaim that despite her catastrophic 44 - day tenure in office , she be in fact right all along , we can see that the Tory party can never be the change that this country be cry out for . the change Britain need be a mission - lead Labour Government embark on 10 year of national renewal — a Government who will secure the high growth in the G7 , make Britain a clean energy superpower , build an NHS fit for the future , make Britain ' s street safe , and break down the barrier to opportunity at every stage . it be long past time for this flailing , divisive Tory Government to recognise that the country need real change , and to call a general election so that the country can have the new start it deserve — and soon rather than later . I call Flick Drummond . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I apologise for ask you to figure out the difference between those housing number early . it be a total pleasure to speak in this debate on his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech . as the Secretary of State state , one of the good way to break down barrier to opportunity be through education . outside parenting , teacher and our school be crucial to provide the life skill that ensure people from more disadvantaged background can break through any barrier . they enable they to do whatever they want to do with their life . as the Sutton Trust have say : " a young person ' s future outcome should not be determine by their background or economic circumstance . " boost social mobility through education be the way we get talented young people to develop their idea and improve the world for all of we . change the education system to make sure it work for everyone be one of the reason I get involve in politic . I write a report for the one nation conservative over three year ago , and last year I be very pleased to see so many commission come to much the same conclusion . the Times education commission say that our curriculum be too narrow at the top and be not provide the skill that university and business want . I agree with that , and so do all the employer I speak to . that be why I be so pleased with the Prime Minister ' s announcement about the advanced british standard , although I have make my view clear on the title . I do think we need to change it . as I write in my report three year ago , I agree that put vocational and academic subject on a par with math and English until 18 be an excellent idea . we be not talk about everyone do math a - level ; we be talk about functional math that might be relate to a vocational subject or to life in general . one third of young people have to retake their math and english gcse , over and over again in some circumstance . I have talk to young people about this , and I know it be very dispiriting and a blight on their education , so why be we still have these high - stake exam at 16 , when the key assessment point be in fact at 18 ? very few other country copy our approach . we should provide a system to assess at 18 , get the curriculum right and remove the barrier of gcse . Most other country start their technical education at age 13 or 14 . I have always advocate a 13 - to - 18 curriculum , because not start early will limit experience and exposure to many subject , include technical education . my final point be that I must regret the absence of a Bill to introduce a register of child not in school . the House will recall that I introduce such a Bill in the previous Session , after the measure be drop from the Schools Bill . before I introduce my Bill , I consult teacher , educational think - tank , child ' s charity , teach union , the Children ' s Commissioner and also Ministers . parent have a right to home school child , and my Bill would have do nothing to prevent they from do so . its aim be to ensure that vulnerable child be identifiable and can be support . there be a crisis in attendance post covid , and we have to tackle it before these child miss out . my Bill fall at the end of the last session , but I note that the Schools Minister have commit to introduce legislation at " a future suitable opportunity " . what more suitable opportunity could there be than the one we have now ? I be deeply disappointed at the lack of such a Bill in the Gracious Speech . the wording of my Bill provide a ready - to - run solution , with support from across the House and across the education system . I urge Ministers to look at this again , and in the meantime I will continue to look at way of get this much - need register in place . this debate be entitle " break down barrier to opportunity " , and I look at the issue face people in my community : poverty , low wage , the disgraceful two - child policy on benefit , systematic discrimination , inadequate housing , poor air quality and so on . they affect so many inner - city and other community across this country , and I do not see any answer in the King ' s Speech . on the environmental issue that the King manage to stumble across when tell we about the new policy , we be tell that , somehow or other , new oil drilling and new fracking will improve the environment , make the world sustainable and put we in line with all the convention that the Government have sign up to over the past few year . I just think that this debate be slightly surreal in its title , and in how the Government have address it . I want to say a couple of thing about education . in school — certainly in England — there be deeply stress teacher and deeply stress student . we have a mental health crisis affect all element of staff within our school and in particular young people . the mental health crisis go right down into primary school . at late stage , we have grotesquely indebte graduate and , in some case , parent deeply in debt or have problem just try to find childcare for their child to continue in work . it be not as if we be give all our child a great start in life . the teaching union ' strike over the past year have be about wage , but they have also be about workload and the quality of education deliver in our school . they have also demand the full funding of the pay settlement that be agree to ensure that school budget be not slash . the Government then do a volte - face on that . have accept that they would refund the school to pay for the settlement , they have try to get out of that . we need a catch - up process on our teacher ’ salary . teacher have be so badly treat by this Government . in an intervention on the Secretary of State — she kindly give way — I raise the issue of fall school roll . she answer that the Government be aware of and investigate the problem . in my constituency , along I suspect with those of many colleague represent inner - urban area , there be a problem of fall roll . that be partly because of people move out of urban area , partly because of a low birth rate and partly because of home schooling . there be a whole variety of issue , but the reality be that many school have seriously fall roll , and therefore be question their survival . each school be ask to deal with the problem on its own , along with the local education authority where it be a maintain school . the teaching assistant go first , and the other support staff second . the teacher go third , and all along the line , the after - school activity and so on be all cut back and deal with . successive government have understandably have to deal with this issue in rural area , and they have come to a funding arrangement that have often protect rural school , albeit with quite low number . I suggest the same principle should now be apply to inner - urban community , too , because keep a local primary school within walking distance for all child be important as part of the glue of the community , and I hope that issue can be address quickly . we do not have an integrated education system . we have far too much competition within the education community , and we have local authority try to juggle maintain school , free school and academy . they have great difficulty therefore in planning for future educational need . in the couple of minute I have leave , I will reflect on the statement early concern the situation in Gaza and the demand for a ceasefire , which I strongly and fully support . all death be deplorable . some 1 , 400 be kill in Israel , which be utterly deplorable , and a vile act be undertake to kill those people . we now have more than 10 , 000 dead in Gaza , include 4 , 000 child who have be kill . the statement by Netanyahu of permanent occupation in Gaza suggest to I that they be try to expel the entire population , and a new Gaza will therefore be create in the Sinai desert . that be the prospect we face . somehow or other , our Government be incapable of voting at the UN even for the minimal request in the Brazilian - author resolution of a humanitarian pause at that time , and they still refuse to join the global call by a whole range of organisation for a ceasefire . that surely have to be the urgency of it . this morning on BBC Radio 4 , Mr Mustafa Barghouti , an independent member of the Palestinian Authority dedicate to non - violent resistance of the occupation , speak at length and with great heartfelt feeling of the occupation over 70 year , the settlement policy in the west bank and the continue and increase settler aggression towards the palestinian people . his voice should be listen to carefully . if there be to be a long - term settlement , it must be the end of the occupation , the end of the settlement policy and justice for those hundred of thousand of palestinian refugee live in camp in Jordan , Syria , Lebanon and the diaspora all around the world . what be happen at the moment be ghastly beyond belief . we be watch in real time on television human life be destroy with weapon , some of which have be in part supply from this country . can not our Government just wake up to the simple humanitarian demand that million of people in this country be make , and will be make in a peaceful march on Saturday , not in competition with the remembrance weekend but part and parcel of it ? we be remember the horror of all those who lose their life in two world war and many other war , and try to bring an end to this ghastly conflict to save life from be destroy in Gaza and anywhere else in the middle east . surely we can have that voice and make it clear from this House that we support a ceasefire now . I be sure that there be much to welcome in the King ' s Speech and much to ponder on the theme of " break down barrier to opportunity " , but I be warm to my theme by the hon . member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) , who be no long in his place . I always find he entertain in the House — I always disagree with everything he say — but I think he be entertaining as Shakespeare ' s clown be entertaining . today mark the 400th anniversary of the publication of Shakespeare ' s first folio , which be the first time that Shakespeare ' s play be publish in a print edition . there be 36 play in that first folio . shakespeare be be celebrate across the medium today , so , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Shakespeare , I think it would be remiss not to mark this significant anniversary . the folio probably represent a foundational moment in our culture , and it be relevant to today ' s debate on opportunity . some of my constituent and other might be say , " why be the MP for Halesowen and Rowley Regis talk about a dead playwright ? why be he important ? what have he get to say about our contemporary world ? " I would argue that the folio give we an opportunity to reassert the continue importance of Shakespeare ' s work in the modern world , particularly in our cultural heritage and education system . the performance and understanding of Shakespeare ' s play be essential for the education of our young people . I recently take part as a judge in a competition organise by the Coram Shakespeare Schools Foundation , which ask young people to reimagine a Shakespeare speech in the contemporary world . some incredibly creative idea be put forward . the discipline require to understand Shakespeare be vital . many of we may have have bad experience at school . I remember study " as you like it " at o - level , and that put I off — it take I until I be do an english degree five year later to get into Shakespeare . but the discipline and creativity of put on performance be critical to the education of our young people and the protection of the cultural heritage . Shakespeare be a central part of our national culture . I want to mention the Rose reveal project in Southwark . in 1989 , archaeological dig be do under a building in Southwark , which reveal one of the original shakespearean theatre — the Rose theatre — where some of the play of Shakespeare and Marlow be perform . the second phase of the project be to do further work on that site to create an exhibition centre celebrate the work of Shakespeare and his contemporary , with a broad vision to create an Elizabethan quarter on that side of the river in London . many other organisation across the country support Shakespeare education and the performance of Shakespeare : the Royal Shakespeare Company , the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust and my alma mater the University of Birmingham , which have the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford do incredibly important work to promulgate Shakespeare and promote his work . there be a second reason why celebrate and talk about the folio and Shakespeare be important today . we live in a time when the international order be under threat . we have conflict throughout the world : the russian invasion of Ukraine , and we have speak about the situation in Israel and Gaza . member may ask , " what do Shakespeare have to do with that ? " as I mention in a recent Prime Minister ' s question after Volodymyr Zelensky ' s visit , I know from my contact with the Ukrainian Shakespeare Centre that Shakespeare ' s play — in particular , Hamlet — have be put on in air raid shelter in Ukraine as an act of defiance against russian aggression . that be an incredibly powerful statement of how a great example of our culture can be use to support democratic value and assert the power of creativity against brazen aggression . in that sense , Shakespeare be part of our soft power . what do we mean by soft power ? I have a conversation with Professor Michael Dobson , who run the Shakespeare Institute , who say that Shakespeare ' s play and their performance be a kind of conversation in which he represent humanity in all its plurality in an eloquent and vigorous way . Shakespeare characterise all that be good in british culture , while still invite those of other culture to join that conversation . Shakespeare be an important part of our soft power , but not in the sense that he be a commodity we can trade around the world . those play and performance be a critical way of bring people together and assert the power of creativity in our world . that be an important dimension of why we need to celebrate the folio today . let I come to my final point about why I be bang on about Shakespeare in the king Speech . Feste , a character in " Twelfth Night " , say : " I can yield you none without word , and word be grow so false I be loath to prove reason with they " . Shakespeare write those word all that time ago , but in our politic , in some way , word have become false and it be very difficult to prove reason with they , because we be live in this world dominate by social medium , the soundbite and — sometimes — false language on both side of the political divide . it be important that this House consider and celebrate the first folio anniversary , because perhaps we can learn from Shakespeare ' s eloquence and the conversation that be the central feature of his play , as we seek to resolve some of the most profound domestic and international difficulty that we have face for many year . the Government be out of idea and without direction , either unwilling or unable to make the big decision to give we a bright future . what a waste opportunity , especially when it come to action to tackle the nature and climate crisis . what well opportunity be there to empower community and business to break down barrier to tackle the big issue of our generation ? I be pleased that the Government announce recently that they will introduce a natural history GCSE , but consider the abysmal nature of what be in the King ' s Speech on tackle the climate crisis , it seem to I that the Prime Minister should be the first person to take it . climate education should not stop with school ; local authority could organise citizen ' assembly , as we have propose many time . there be so many opportunity to educate people about the danger of our not get this right and fail to reach our 1 . 5 ° target by 2050 , but those on the Government Front Bench continue to ignore they . they continue , too , to ignore the opportunity that would arise from a green transition . a nature or climate GCSE could grow the career and skill we need to tackle the climate emergency and get to net zero , but this Government ' s attitude be that everyone except they must meet their commitment . rather than protect our child ' s future , the Government be protect the interest of the fossil fuel giant . how can they seriously claim to be leader on net zero action while introduce legislation to hold annual oil and gas licensing round ? that be particularly shocking when compare with their unforgivable failure to allocate a single new contract for difference for onshore wind farm in the recent auction round . I would like to hear how the new legislation will bring down energy bill for a single one of my constituent . research from Uplift confirm that most of the oil produce at Rosebank will be ship abroad and sell on the global market to the high bidder ; it will secure the future of the oil and gas giant , but not the UK ' s energy supply . not only do the new Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill fly in the face of our climate commitment , but it will have wide - range and long - term negative impact on the sustainability of our ocean and marine life . as I say , we need education on this across the House and across the board in all our community . educate young child be a good start , but it seem to I that a lot more of the old generation need that education too . when will this Tory Government embrace the clean , green energy of the future and stop delay our path to net zero ? we need more grid capacity and more Government action to capitalise on green job and technology . new green job do not fall out of the sky ; they start with proper career option for young people that they can start now so that we can see the energy transformation we need . we hear from Tory Ministers that they hope to attract more investment in renewable , but their word do not match their action . we can not afford for our Government to miss any more of their own target . that , too , should be part of our education — that if we say we will do something , we should actually deliver . we must take people with we on the green transition , and education be the first step . there be so many untapped opportunity . UK solar power deployment be already significantly behind target . the smart export guarantee should incentivise household to invest in solar panel by allow they to sell the excess electricity they produce back to the grid at a well price and recover the cost of their investment much fast . again , educate householder in how they can invest in the net zero transition be an important part of the puzzle . if we do not communicate properly with our citizen about what they can do to tackle the climate crisis , where will we be ? under the current system , it take decade for householder to break even . householder be confused , and we need to ensure that there be trust source where they can obtain information about how to tackle the climate crisis and break down the barrier that we be discuss today . there must be that change to bring about the revolution in rooftop solar that carry so many benefit for people and the planet . the cheap energy be the energy that we do not use , and reduce energy waste will lower bill and cut carbon emission . we urgently need to upgrade our housing stock to guarantee warm and comfortable home for everyone , long into the future . one in four private renter live in fuel poverty , and 1 . 6 million child be live in privately rent cold , damp or mouldy home . landlord have contact I say that they can not afford to upgrade their property to energy - efficient standard . that , too , be just a bit of education , a bit of knowledge that we must share as a matter of urgency . I believe that local council be well place to be the trust source of that type of information , but the Government must see they as partner and people to engage with , and give they the opportunity and resource that they need in order to share the information that be so badly need in our community . some subsidy scheme be available to landlord , but they be not open to all landlord and they can be difficult to access . we Liberal Democrats propose that all landlord should be allow to offset their spending on insulation and energy - save improvement against their income tax . only through well - target incentive for landlord will we make the difference for tenant who be struggle to pay their bill . if the Government disagree with our proposal , I ask they to suggest an alternative . all we have see so far be that from 2025 landlord will no long need to meet the energy performance certificate c standard . there have be yet more delay . when will we see action to ensure that family do not live in poor - quality housing that be badly insulate , make their energy bill more expensive ? we need the landlord on board . we need a Government who be prepared to use both a carrot and a stick , and we need a Government who be prepared to put out the necessary information and enable it to be pool — and I would say , yet again , that council be well place to do that . E3 G have find that raise the energy standard to c rating for privately rent home would save bill payer about £ 570 a year . the Government should hold firm , and help landlord to meet these target and keep home warm this winter . since the last king ' s Speech , we have not reduce our dependence on oil and gas , we have not allow household to make more sustainable choice , we have not put out that important piece of education that people need , we have not organise the citizen ' assembly for the sharing of information that we require so urgently , and we have not protect household from rise energy bill . too many household face another difficult winter . the Government ' s failure to deliver be become their trademark , and judge by the King ' s speech that will not change any time soon , although I still hold out hope that it will . the Government should prove I wrong — or right . I fear that the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Shakespeare , the hon . member for Halesowen and Rowley Regis ( James Morris ) , have open a can of worm with his quotation . I hate to say this , but most of we feel that yesterday be much Ado about Nothing . in fact , I think it be less shakespeare and more " upstart crow " . I listen to the Secretary of State ' s introduction to the debate . we have hear her personal history a number of time , and there be the benefit of not have to buy the inevitable autobiography when it come out , but I would have expect she to have learn , as most of we have , that it be good for child to maximise their educational opportunity when they go to school , and if they be to do that , they should not be go to school hungry . what worry I about the King ' s Speech be that there be no attempt to address the problem of poverty in our society . I be never completely sure what the debate on the King ' s Speech be about , because we know what the Government be go to do and there be little influence we can have on they . to a certain extent , though , now that we have the autumn statement , maybe this be an attempt to shout through the Chancellor ' s letterbox to say that there be issue that the King ' s Speech have not address , and one of they be poverty . I do not want to rattle through the figure too much , but we all know that 14 million of our fellow citizen be live in poverty at the moment , that 4 . 2 million of they be child , and that two third of those child be live in household where someone be at work . what do that say about low pay ? the Government also need to be clear that unemployment be rise steadily . we now have up to 1 . 5 million unemployed . when I be first on the shop floor , unemployment benefit do actually get people through . back then it be 28 % of the average wage , but now it be 13 % , so we be force people who be unemployed into a life of poverty . the number of people certify as unfit to work be also rise rapidly , and I think part of that be because many of they be on the 7 . 9 million - long waiting list for operation and treatment to get they back into work . I can remember have a debate in this House nearly five year ago when the UN rapporteur Philip Alston report on our social security system and its implication for people in our society live in poverty . he say that our social security system mean " the systematic immiseration of a significant part of the british population " . that shock we , because he also start use a word that we have not use for generation : " destitution . " last week , his successor Olivier de Schutter report that the situation be get significantly bad . if we do not believe the UN rapporteur , then the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , which we have cite across the House time and again when we have need advice on how to tackle poverty , report that 3 . 8 million in our country be now live in destitution , include 1 million child . it define destitution as " when people can not afford to meet their most basic physical need to stay warm , dry , clean and fed " . it report that destitution have increase by 148 % since 2017 . that be not a society any of we want to live in . I have look at the foundation ' s detailed research , but what I find most interesting be when it actually talk to people and ask they , " just give we an example of your experience . " there be a whole list of quote , but this be the one that get to I : " I and my partner survive on one meal a day . we make sure my daughter be eat . she have three meal a day , but I and my partner , we be lucky if we have one meal a day . " that can not be right , can it ? in any society , that can not be right . there be a whole series of other quote in which people talk about go hungry because the food bank be open for only a limited number of day , or because they get only so many discretionary opportunity to receive food from the food bank . as my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) say , the number of people use food bank have shoot through the roof again . so this be an appeal to the Chancellor to do something in the autumn statement , in a couple of week ' time , to help our child out of poverty . in the pandemic , it be recognise by the Government that the safety net be not work , so with our unanimous support they add an extra £ 20 a week to universal credit to see people through . that need to be do now , just as a first step . the cost would be between £ 5 . 5 billion and £ 6 billion . that sound a lot , but give the overall weight of Government spending and the impact it could have on lift child out of poverty , it would be a significant investment . we have also previously debate scrap the two - child limit , which would lift 250 , 000 child out of poverty . I also want to make sure that child be not go hungry , which be why free school meal for all pupil will be critical as a foundation stone for the future . in many of our area we have people live in poverty because they can not afford the rent . on Sunday night , a family of constituent come to my home . they be in a property in my constituency . to get on a council housing list , you have to live there 10 year and then you have to wait for five or six year . by that time , some child have grow up . this family come into my house and we sit down . both parent be in work — one work in childcare — but they can not afford the rent because the housing allowance no long anywhere near match what be need . the Government need to now consider end the housing allowance freeze and restore it just to the 2015 level of 50 % of market rent . there be a brutal form of social security policy in this country : no recourse to public fund . what that mean be that the child of migrant , who have do nothing to deserve it , be force into poverty because their family have no recourse to public fund . I urge the Government and the Chancellor in the autumn statement to do something to lift our child out of poverty . there be a range of measure that be completely affordable and that could have a dramatic impact on the life of child in our country . a final point from I : no debate can go on without mention the child of Gaza — the 4 , 000 who have be kill and the 1 , 000 we think be under the rubble . that be why our call today for a ceasefire be so important . sometimes when we have these debate , political calculation overtake we . when we come into the Chamber , our humanity and sometimes our ability to express our concern end there because of the politic of a situation . I think we see today , across the House in many respect , the real concern there be about the child of Gaza . I just hope the Government can bring themselves to lead the call for an immediate ceasefire , because I can not see any other solution to end that suffering . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate and a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . he always focus on child poverty in these debate , and that be the right thing to do . what he refer to in his constituency be replicate across the whole United Kingdom . on food bank , for instance , just last week in my Strangford constituency there be a front - page article about food bank . there have be not a 16 % increase in the use of food bank , but a 72 % increase . that be incredibly worrying . it be not just those on low income who be find it hard and hard to pay their bill ; it be also those on middle income . he be right to make those point and I support he entirely . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak . what a poignant first speech deliver by his Majesty the King in his role . it be a privilege to be a part of that audience yesterday , to witness his instruction for the delivery of the Government ' s aim , and to today represent the good people of my constituency of Strangford , his loyal subject , as we seek to ensure that the need of our community be meet within those aim . watch the pomp , pageantry , tradition and history — the whole procession and the King ' s Speech for the start of Parliament — make I feel incredibly proud to be british . I very much welcome the apprenticeship scheme that the Secretary of State outline . I also welcome the measure on childcare provision — good news . it might be low - hang fruit , but the tobacco legislation be also to be welcome . it may not be earth - shattering as such , but it be important because it will , hopefully , make a change . I also welcome the increase in Ministry of Defence spending . my request within that government commitment be that perhaps we could look at recruit more Territorial Army personnel in Northern Ireland . the reserve force in Northern Ireland be well - recruit . there be opportunity and I believe we should be do more , legislatively , to ensure that people can join the Royal Navy , the Army and the RAF in Northern Ireland . I want to make three point , so I will call it a presbyterian sermon . I be not a Presbyterian , although I be married to one — I be a baptist — but a presbyterian sermon be in three part . there be a hint of Catholicism there . the right hon . Gentleman always have a good point to make . the title of today ' s debate , " break down Barriers to Opportunity , " resonate with I in a few way . I seek assurance from the Government that their commitment to break down barrier extend to Northern Ireland . I secure a Westminster Hall debate before prorogation on contract for difference , and the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) have just speak about the importance of have they in place . I know the Minister will forgive I for raise the matter again so soon , but this be a new Session with new goal and , I hope , a new approach . contract for difference be much wide than simply an energy issue ; they be also about the Northern Ireland economy . I be a great believer that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be well together and , for I , it be important that we all feel the benefit of the King ' s Speech by make sure that Northern Ireland play its part in the economy of this great nation . it be about build a Northern Ireland supply chain , and Northern Ireland ' s desire to contribute to the Government ' s net - zero target and to reach that target together equally across this great kingdom . it be about job . it be about science , technology , engineering and math opportunity for lady and woman . it be about new skill , as the Education Secretary say , and it be about Northern Ireland ' s desire to be an integral part of provide support for low - carbon delivery across the four nation of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I love history , and it be no secret that I love this place . it always resonate with I that the four nation become one in Central Lobby , which be what I hope for . the barrier to opportunity must be tear down , and I look to the Government to make sure that happen through the contract for difference scheme . I know the Government intend to commit over £ 1 . 6 billion to the green climate fund — the big single international climate pledge that the UK have ever make — yet I feel there be a barrier within the UK , which can be bring down to help achieve our climate pledge while improve the local economy in Northern Ireland . extend contract for difference to Northern Ireland be an essential component of that work , and I hope Northern Ireland ' s barrier to opportunity will be break down . green energy can deliver job opportunity , so we must break down that barrier . the obvious barrier to opportunity in Northern Ireland be the irish sea border . that physical barrier be detrimental to all in Northern Ireland . unfortunately , the Prime Minister make only a fleeting reference to Northern Ireland yesterday , and the fact be that this issue have not be resolve . he refer to the Union , but he do not go into any detail . as someone who believe in the Union , I would have love to hear more from the Prime Minister . the barrier to democracy erect by the European Union be still fully in place , as my constituent be subject to law create by a process in which they have no elect representation . my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) be also here , and we both recognise that local representation make an important difference . at the moment , we be deny that representation . the barrier remain , as the DUP remain unable to take its place in devolved authority at Stormont until further step be take to restore our opportunity to operate as a fully functional member of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I now move on to the third part of my presbyterian sermon . I say this respectfully to the Minister — I always try to be reasonable in my comment — but the Government continue to bury their head in the sand on child benefit threshold . this be DUP policy , and we move a ten - minute rule Bill on this subject before prorogation . I have raise this issue over and again , and I will continue to do so until the Government acknowledge that the 10 - year freeze equate to a reduction in child benefit threshold . it have create barrier to opportunity , and to much - need extra fund , for work family , which be unacceptable . it be a barrier not only for we in Northern Ireland , but for we all in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ; it be a barrier in Scotland , Wales , England and Northern Ireland . another barrier to opportunity for work family throughout the UK be that they be afraid of accept small pay rise for fear of deal with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , and that while price have escalate , their wage be stagnant . something have to break and it must not be , and never can be , the work family . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington refer to that clearly and I be say the same thing . for they , I ask the Government to include this matter in the list of priority for this coming year . I be come to the end of my speech , within the timescale that you ask we all to adhere to , Madam Deputy Speaker . however , let I highlight that all of we here have the tool not only to build barrier in society , but to break they down . let we break they down together and make sure that we make the right choice , prioritise our economy , our Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and our work family in this new Session . may God bless the King , and this Government , as they deliver his and their goal and aim in this year . rise — I thank the hon . gentleman for stick to the guidance . as I say , I be more relaxed now , because there have be a couple of drop - out . on the anniversary of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 , I have to say that it be disappointing that not much in the King ' s Speech deliver for disabled people . after 13 year of Conservative - lead government , disabled people feel that they be an afterthought and that their right be not fully protect and promote in this country . it be shocking that we be still have these conversation in 2023 . progress have go backwards , not forwards . it be well document that the pandemic and the cost of living crisis have have a disproportionate effect on disabled people . that come on top of the fact that extra cost be already associate with have a disability . early this year , disability equality charity Scope release update research on the extra cost associate with have a disability — the so - call disability price tag . when Scope last calculate the price tag , in 2019 , it stand at an average of £ 583 per month for household contain at least one disabled person . over the past four year , that have rise to a shocking £ 975 per month , which equate to 63 % of household income . that mean that disabled household need to find almost £ 12 , 000 extra per year to achieve the same living standard as non - disabled household . the impact of the rise cost be exacerbate by the fact that disabled people also tend to have low than average income . in its January 2023 report , the Resolution Foundation find that the gap in household income in respect of adult with a disability and adult without one be about 30 % when include disability benefit , and 44 % when exclude they . minister tell we that they have bring forth a number of measure to improve disabled people ' s right and tackle the barrier they continue to face , so let we have a look at some of they in turn . first , we come to the national disability strategy , which be announce in the 2019 Queen ' s Speech . the strategy be much delay before its eventual publication , in the summer recess of 2021 . although claim to be bold , it introduce little new policy for disabled people and instead rely on other piece of Government work . it be then hold up by a lengthy court case bring by disabled people who dispute whether the consultation process have be lawful . have the Government engage in proper co - production , the court case would not have be necessary . next come the disability action plan , which be quietly announce in December last year . after month of waiting , the proposal for the plan be publish during the summer recess — again — and the consultation close a month ago . disappointingly , the plan do not contain a cohesive set of action to bring about the change disable people so desperately need . thirdly , we have the health and disability White Paper that set out some plan to reform employment support and disability benefit . its most significant proposal be the scrapping of the work capability assessment , which have leave many people concerned that the system will rely solely on the flawed personal independence payment assessment . all this should be consider in the context of the United Nations convention on the right of person with disability , which seek to ensure that disabled people ' s right be promote and protect . in 2016 , an investigation find that " grave or systemic violation " of disabled people ' s right have take place because of welfare reform in the UK since 2010 . in 2017 , at the first periodic review , the Conservative Government be judge to have take insufficient action to implement early recommendation . the next review be ongoing , but the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , who be on the Front Bench early and I wish be now , cause further concern by refuse to attend an evidence session in August 2023 . the Government must do well . twenty - four per cent of the UK population identify as disabled , and we must stop let they down . we must break down the barrier that exist in society . minister should be take every opportunity they can to co - produce policy with disabled people , who be the expert by experience , and to ensure that their need be be meet in every part of life . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) . I thank she for the work she do and for be a champion for disabled people . watch the king ' s Speech be quite an occasion , as it be a moment in history . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) paint a picture of how significant it be , but the irony be not lose that the King arrive in a gold - plate , horse - draw carriage to announce legislation on ban pedicab at Westminster tube . it just show that , however grand the occasion , there be nothing like a Conservative Government to bring it down into the gutter — and much else do follow that . the test of any King ' s Speech must be whether it make life materially well for the people we be all here to represent , and whether it make the country we love strong , more confident and more resilient in the face of global uncertainty . by those measure , it can only be mark as another miss opportunity . it be a miss opportunity to address one of the big economic challenge our country face . the very bond of the british contract be break — the promise that if people be willing to work hard and play by the rule , in return they can get on in life and do well , and that through our generational effort , our child can go on to do even well . that contract have not just be renege on ; it have be tear up . People in Chadderton , Oldham West and Royton , and right across Britain , know that and they feel the betrayal every single day : family work all the hour God send , but still unable to make end meet ; young people start off in life unable to get on the housing ladder ; and old people deny the care they need and deserve to live well into old life . it be a fact that life have always be challenge for work people , but it have not always be this grind . there be so much missing from the King ' s Speech on social care , the environment and nature , child protection and a range of other issue . it be completely hollow and void of idea and solution to the issue face the country . as the proud chair of the Co - operative party , it be disappointing to see the Government fail to take the opportunity provide by the King ' s Speech to seize the many solution put forward by our movement to address those challenge . as Labour ' s sister party for almost a century , co - operator believe in enterprise , grassroots organisation , and that the wealth and value we create together can and should be use to build strong community and strong economy that we can all share in . we believe , too , that ownership matter , because it drive decision making and ultimately determine where the dividend be return . on energy , for instance , the Labour and Co - operative party together have a share commitment to bring back community energy as a blueprint to safeguard energy security and investing in cheap , clean renewable energy that be produce and own right here in the UK . instead of invest in non - renewable that help only multinational oil and gas giant , the Government should be back local community to produce and own their own renewable energy . labour ' s local power plan set out how to do that , with a bold ambition for 1 million new owner of energy produce 8 GW of energy by 2030 . we also fail to see any action on retail crime , despite an announcement in the Criminal Justice Bill . it be a crisis and a blight on our high street that store such as the Co - op Group be victim of significant retail crime . the Co - op Group report that 175 , 000 incident be record in the first six month of this year alone . retail crime should be a stand - alone offence . shopworker enforce the law set by this House , and they should be afford the protection of it , too . the Government ' s agenda for this Session also neglect to address the ownership that people desperately need over their local community and the place that really matter to they . our high street have be hollow out . we see the empty , board - up building ; the pub , shop and community hub on which we have rely close down ; and the service on which people depend disappear . again , the Labour and Co - operative party can contribute to the solution . by strengthen the Localism Act 2011 and introduce a genuine community right to buy , we can address head - on that issue of community loss . we can encourage community to come together to buy at - risk pub , shop and other asset to make sure that they be protect for future generation . we believe that word be one thing , but there be nothing like action to show what change can achieve . for instance , in my own constituency , when the Daisyfield Inn , a local pub in Bardsley , be at risk of closure , we manage to secure an asset of community value protection on the register of that building . now , not only have it be retain for the local community , but it have a community allotment out back to help local people fight isolation and to bring the community together even more . it can be do ; the model be there , but we can do even more . Oldham Athletic Football Club , our pride , be now back by local power , because Boundary Park and the field next door use for training — Little Wembley — be now also an asset of community value . we recognise that , beyond the brick and mortar , these be meet place — they be the fabric , the glue , the identity , the belonging , the past , the present and , with effort , the future , too . another blueprint for change offer by the Labour and Co - operative party — yet another chance miss by the Government — really break down the barrier that we be talk about here today . People feel that the economy be not work for they , and that power be be take away from they . we believe that if we can double the size of the co - operative sector , where more people have a stake in the future , where business be root in the community , and where decision be be make for the benefit of the community , not for short - term dividend payment extraction , we will see an economy that be more resilient and more robust , and that will benefit the UK as well . it have be prove that these business be more productive , more resilient , and more equitable , because co - operative be more than twice as likely to survive the early year of trading when compare with other style of business . we have see that in huge sector right across the UK . with just a little more effort , we can see they grow even far . what would that mean for the UK ? accord to research commission by Co - operative UK , just last year alone the turnover of the co - operative in the UK contribute £ 41 billion to the UK economy , an increase of 3 . 7 % on the previous year . this be not a small - fry contribution ; it be a significant part of our economy . instead of wealth be concentrate in the hand of a small number of people at the top , ownership be spread in the community where the co - operative operate . that be important for the local community and important for the country overall . in the end , what we see from the King ' s Speech be what we have see for the past 13 year : a country that be fragment socially and economically and a Government who have run out of road , out of idea and out of solution to fix those problem . surely the only way now to repair the crack in the foundation and to give Britain hope again be to call a general election , not provide a king ' s Speech . we might have a new monarch on the throne , but what we see yesterday be a complete abdication of responsibility from the Government , who have , as my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) just say , completely run out of idea . with no answer to the cost of live crisis and other problem of their own making over the past 13 year , their default response now be just to distract , delay and , as we see with the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , sow division through political point scoring , rather than do what be right for this country ' s economic future and for the planet . the Energy Secretary herself have concede that we can not rely on that Bill to bring energy bill down , so who do benefit from the Bill , if not consumer ? could it be the oil and gas company , make record profit , which be hand billion in taxpayer subsidy ? double down on fossil fuel be not the answer . clean , cheap home - grow energy be the only way to make we energy secure . as the Prime Minister stumble in the starting block in the race for net zero , or indeed seem to be go backwards , Labour stand ready to lead the sprint for renewable with all the opportunity that they will bring — whether it be green job in community that be make the transition away from dirty fossil fuel ; whether it be community power , which we have hear about ; or whether it be economic regeneration and technical advance . there be so much potential . it be a relief that the Renters ( Reform ) Bill come back before Parliament just before Parliament prorogue and be carry over , but frankly the Bill be not good enough . the ban on no - fault eviction be still be kick down the road , for probably year into the future . More than 60 , 000 section 21 notice have be serve since the promise to ban they be first make . while we wait for the Government to act , thousand more will become homeless through no fault of their own — victim of a Government pander to the wealthy property - owner on their Back Benches . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be suppose to transform the private rented sector , but it will remain legal for landlord to discriminate against tenant on benefit . there will be no statutory decent home standard in the private sector , and local housing allowance will remain frozen , mean that the vast majority of privately rent home in place such as Bristol will remain unaffordable for people on housing benefit . give that we have not hear anything from the Government this week , I certainly hope that we will see something on that in the autumn statement . we talk about opportunity . the opportunity to have a decent home and a roof over their head be be deny to so many . I be pleased that the leasehold and freehold Bill will be introduce . even the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have admit that the leasehold system be " outdated " and " feudal " , but it be disappointing to see such a half - hearted attempt at reform again . it be good to see a ban on leasehold for new house , but house make up only 30 % of leasehold home in England . there be no reason why flat - owner deserve less protection and high cost . that be yet another Tory u - turn that will leave far too many flat - owner face extortionate bill and ground rent for home that they already own . give that the Home Secretary ' s recent announcement on tent be not take up , at least they will be safe in the knowledge that they can switch to sleep under a dual carriageway in a little tent of their own for the foreseeable future . I be try to be positive , but there be not a lot to go on . that be evidence by the fact that no Tory mps be wait to speak , and the last Tory MP who do speak , the hon . member for Halesowen and Rowley Regis ( James Morris ) , manage to get through 10 minute without mention anything at all in the King ' s Speech , though he tell we an awful lot about Shakespeare , which I guess be educational in its own way . I be pleased that we be finally get a Bill to ban live export , even if it have be more than seven year since we hear all those promise during the 2016 referendum campaign . it be one of the Leave campaign ' s flagship thing . I know people who vote for Brexit only because they think that there would be a ban on live export , so it have take the Government a long time , and where be the other promise that be make on ban import of fur and foie gra ? they be suppose to be a Brexit bonus too . in another example of well late than never , I welcome the long - overdue football governance Bill , finally give we a chance to realise recommendation from the fan - lead football review . we desperately need great parity across the footballe pyramid in this country to protect the future of the game and ensure that the excessive wealth of the top club reach the low league and grassroots football . on crime , of course Labour support the need to bring in tough sentence for serious and violent offender , but this be not the first time the Conservative Government have make such promise . since 2010 , almost 4 , 000 convict rapist have receive sentence of less than seven year . it be no surprise that this Government be all talk and no action . we have a record backlog in our court , with more than 65 , 000 case wait to be hear in the Crown court . that be thousand of victim wait for justice to be do . two third of English and Welsh prison be overcrowded and as of last month we have barely 500 prison place leave , which raise the question of where those extra prisoner will go . that be just not join - up thinking ; again , it be make grand statement without make the investment in our public realm that be need to back up those promise . this debate be as much about what be not in the King ' s Speech as what be in it . there be no mention of the long - await employment Bill or pension reform ; no register of child out of school ; no commitment to reform the dental contract , which dentist and my constituent be cry out for and which labour will deliver ; and nothing on tackle the climate or nature emergency . I be tell we will need primary legislation to ratify the global ocean treaty , which the UK sign with some fanfare early this year . where be that legislation ? it will be a very short piece of legislation , but why the delay ? it be not as if this be a Government burst with idea , full of ambition and struggle to find space in the parliamentary timetable for all the urgent and inspirational thing they want to do . we will have to wait for next year ' s King ' s Speech for that . give that the Government seem to have so few idea , why have they stall on some of the thing we already know they have be look at ? where be the mental health Bill , for example ? we have have the draft Bill and plenty of time for pre - legislative scrutiny , so why be this Bill drag on and run out of time when reform be so desperately need ? and why , five year on , be the Government still procrastinate over a ban on so - call conversion therapy ? LGBT + people deserve well than to be tell that their sexuality or gender identity can be cure . when will the Government follow labour ' s example and back a full , inclusive conversion therapy ban ? what this King ' s Speech reveal be that we have a Government devoid of compassion , of leadership and of conscience , exemplify by a Home Secretary who describe homelessness as a " lifestyle choice " . demonise the most vulnerable in society be a political choice . oversee the manage decline of the NHS be a political choice . trash the UK ' s international climate reputation be a political choice . let that trickle - down mini - Budget crash our economy last autumn and lead we into a cost of living crisis be a political choice . those be the action of a Tory Government who for 13 year have put self - interest over the interest of the country . it be time to give the people of Britain a chance to choose . this King ' s Speech show that the country need a general election and a Labour Government . when we scrape away all the pomp , the ceremony and the pageantry of yesterday , there be a consensus — on the Opposition Benches at least , if it have not yet dawn on the conservative side — that this be a decay Government who be not really govern . rather , they be preside over a country in decline . that be evidence by the acre of empty green Benches on the Government side of the House . our job be to be unconvince by the Government , but the Conservatives be so unconvinced by their own legislative agenda that only one Back Bencher have join they for this part of the debate — the good part , if I say so myself , since I get to my foot . this Government be define by chaos and fall from crisis to crisis , and my constituent certainly can not wait to see the back of they . they be completely unfit for the challenge that all our constituent face today . they have no clue , I believe , about the scale of the challenge and no comprehension of what be require to meet the social , economic , political and global insecurity that rip through community up and down the country . we could have have a King ' s Speech root in prosperity , root in resilience , root in that word that the conservative love to use : aspiration . we could have have a King ' s Speech about tackle the big challenge of our time and seek consensus for the long - term structural change need to take on those policy challenge , whether they be improve living standard , which our constituent be desperately cry out for — our living standard be fall massively behind those of our western european counterpart , and the Government do not even seem to recognise that , never mind have a plan to deal with it properly — or our decay national infrastructure and public service . the Conservatives have manage to turn climate change into a culture war issue , with all kind of nonsense on the issue of the net zero transition come not just from some junior parliamentary private Secretary , but from the Prime Minister himself . look at global affair and international security . all those challenge require a sensible , level - head approach , but we have a Government who know their day be number and be rush to an imaginary constituency base on about 500 people in the constituency of the previous Prime Minister but one , where even opposition to clean air zone will set and define their governing and political strategy . it hardly instil any confidence when we see the Prime Minister — quite correctly — try to form a global coalition to deal with thing such as the regulation of artificial intelligence , but use that summit as an audition for a job back in California . in the Bills set out in the King ' s Speech , many of which be old announcement simply be re - announce , we see a poverty of ambition that my constituent certainly can not afford . I know that this be the great unspoken iron - clothe consensus between the two main party in this Chamber , but we also have not see a plan to deal with the damage of Brexit . that be an issue that will not even speak its name , but it have damage we — it have damage our standing internationally , it have damage our economy , and it have damage the country ' s reputation with our close neighbour in Europe . we have not even start to think about the huge project of rebuild and strategic redesign of the public realm , public service and national institution need post - pandemic . nobody talk about " build back well " any long — it have almost be erase from the public consciousness and public debate — yet we know that that be exactly what will be need . and yes , many colleague on both side of the House have say much that I agree with in term stand up for the international rule - base order , which be massively challenge by a war in Europe right now , and , of course , by the situation between Israel and Gaza . if someone call for a ceasefire to that conflict , they be somehow label an extremist , and we have a Home Secretary who want to turn it into a culture war issue by describe those protest for a ceasefire as take part in " hate marche " . be we to believe that the Home Secretary — one of the great office of state — really believe that ten of thousand of antisemite march through the street of London , and her response be to write an open letter ? her position would be untenable if that be actually the case . but so radicalised and desperate to lead her party have she become — presumably when they be on the Opposition Benches — and so weak be the Prime Minister in not rein she in , never mind think about sack she , that this be the position of the conservative party today . I be not a conservative , but we need a conservative party that be at least rooted in the real world . there be many good conservative Members , some of whom I have personal friendship with , and there might even be one or two here right now — let we not overstate it , mind you — but I say to they : " take your party back from this madness , because it drag the entire political country into the sewer , and we all deserve much well than that . " all this nonsense about homelessness be a " lifestyle choice " , and want to attack charity worker who hand out tent to give people a semblance of shelter from the rain and the cold . what be this rubbish ? they have the cheek to call themselves Conservatives , but they have contempt for institution , contempt for the law , contempt for norm . conserve what exactly ? a conservative party utterly unrecognisable to its own tradition — many of which be fine ; many of which I do not agree with — and massively out of control . think of the challenge we face — climate change , technology , age population and all the rest of it — and the institution we need in order to meet those challenge . in , I think , a report for a think - tank , the former Cabinet Secretary Mark Sedwill say recently that Palmerston would recognise many of the institution that exist on Whitehall today . this month mark 25 year since the passing and signing of the Scotland Act 1998 that establish the Scottish Parliament — an institution that the Government det with every fibre of their being . it have increasingly become a Parliament that be about mitigate the bad excess of the Government ' s agenda and policy over many , many year . I do not want a Parliament of mitigation ; I want a Parliament of aspiration . Scotland can only become prosperous , fair and resilient , and its aspiration can only really be realise , when it become independent and be back in the European Union . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , to follow the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Stewart Malcolm McDonald ) , and to represent my Lewisham East constituent as we debate break down barrier to opportunity and other relevant issue . however , it be concern to I — as I know it be to the public — that the Government have not address in the King ' s Speech the many crisis that impact our country . because of 13 year of Conservative Government , we have see multiple failing . to name a few , we have see a failure to tackle the cost of living crisis ; the shameful watering down of net zero target ; the mishandling of the covid - 19 pandemic ; the personal protective equipment scandal ; partygate ; the wrecking of the economy through an unfunded mini - Budget ; constant incident of sleaze ; and court delay and backlog . we have already hear about many of those issue in the Chamber today . we have also see high mortgage and rent ; school building crumble ; sewage pour into our stream and river , while water company be allow to get away with pay large bonus ; long NHS waiting list ; a shortage of doctor and nurse ; and an inability to get gp and dentist appointment . the cost of living crisis have see a hike in the cost of food , high gas bill , high electricity bill and high rent . People be even struggle to buy clothing and furniture , and child be go to school hungry . the use of food bank be become a norm — they be use by middle wage earner and low wage earner , by people on benefit and people on none . it be an example of deprivation , disadvantage and , ultimately , poverty exist in our country . I have to ask : be this the good the Conservative Government have for our country ? it be shameful . some people be not able to wash their clothe or to have frequent shower . poverty be on the increase , and this Government be close their eye to it . child poverty stop our young people from reach their full potential . accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , the number of people experience extreme poverty increase by 61 % between 2019 and 2022 . child be particularly hard hit : the number of child experience destitution have almost triple . furthermore , accord to the Child Poverty Action Group , there be evidence that child from minority ethnic group be more likely to be in poverty . that be not acceptable , but the Government have not address it . why have they not do so ? the King ' s Speech clearly do nothing to combat the major challenge face family in Lewisham East and across our country . meanwhile , Labour will provide breakfast club in every primary school to prevent child from come to school hungry , which will break down the barrier to learn . a potential Labour Government will ensure that there be more specialist teacher , a modern curriculum and well training and apprenticeship , so that every child and young person be gear up to learn and ready for work . housing be also crucial to support a child ' s learn — a warm home and no overcrowding , as well as a place to eat , to study , to play and to sleep , and no mould or damp . why be it so difficult for this government to support their people and their country ? be it because of five Prime Minister and seven chancellor in 13 year ? labour will improve the standard of live for family and community , and it will build , build , build more home . in fact , if elect , Labour will build 1 . 5 million home over the next Parliament . it will also ensure that people receive a fair wage . we need to raise the floor on wage to reverse the Tories ' low - wage economy . I ask again : why be it so difficult for this government to support their people and their country ? I think it be because we know that at the heart of the Conservative Government be the ability to sound plausible , but the inability to be responsible . as I close , I will focus on the lack of funding and national guidance to tackle the delay in and the unavailability of respiratory diagnosis . this have be a well - know issue since the pandemic . accord to the organisation Asthma + Lung UK : " right now , thousand of people with lung condition across the UK be suffer . they ' re scared , alone and exhausted . " those be not my word , but its word . I call on the Health Secretary to set out funding and national guidance to tackle the current crisis in respiratory diagnosis . if people can not work or receive proper education because they be off sick due to their love one ' or their own health condition , that be a barrier to their learning . when will the government fix it ? it be a pleasure to speak on his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech , but in community such as the one I represent in Batley and Spen there be a grow feeling that Britain be no long work . People be face a struggle to get a GP appointment , hospital appointment or dentist appointment ; they rarely see a police officer on the street , despite feel that crime and antisocial behaviour in their community be rise ; they be wait month or even year for an education , health and care plan for their child with special educational need , see they struggle without the support they need and witness the impact on their mental health ; they be send their child to school know that teacher be overwork , overstretch and without the resource they need to give their child the good start in life ; they be just accept that home ownership be not a likely reality for the young generation ; or , at the end of the month , realise that their hard - earn pay or pension barely cover the increase bill . this be the broken Britain the Conservatives have preside over during 13 year of national decline . this King ' s Speech could have start the hard work to get Britain ' s future back . instead , what we see yesterday be a Government desperate to distract from their appalling record by engage in dangerous and divisive culture war and announce yet more gimmick . rather than get on with the serious job of govern , they announce a series of Bills that fail even to scratch the surface of the fundamental reform and renewal that our country need . in the area where I live and that I represent in Batley and Spen and across the Spen valley , this sense of broken Britain be clear to see , and I hear it from my constituent all the time . over the last few month , we have see the closure of Batley bath , and I and other be currently fight hard to save Batley sport and tennis centre , Cleckheaton town hall and Claremont House dementia care home in Heckmondwike from closure . the loss of these precious public building and service would have a severe impact on local family and community . for example , local leisure centre be not just place where resident go to exercise and keep physically healthy , although that be crucial if we be to reduce the long - term pressure on the NHS ; they also provide opportunity to socialise and meet new people , combat loneliness and social isolation , and significantly improve mental health and wellbeing . the loss of such facility hit town and village hard and for many year , so we need to act quickly to save they , but since 2010 Kirklees Council have lose £ 1 billion in funding . if the Conservatives have keep Labour ' s funding formula , Kirklees would currently be in surplus . instead , Kirklees Council be force to make impossible decision about which public service it have to cut . the King ' s Speech should have include a Bill to fix the break funding formula for council and to save vital local service , but it do not . instead , it leave we in Batley and Spen face the loss of facility when we need they the most . after last year ' s disastrous mini - Budget , our community be pay the price for the Conservatives ' costly mistake and mismanagement . it break my heart to see the impact of this on the community I love , that I be so incredibly proud to represent and that have stand by I in the most difficult of time . unlike the current Home Secretary , I believe that strong leadership do not need to be devoid of compassion . it should be about bring people and community together , not push they apart , and that can take many form locally , nationally and internationally . event in the middle east be at the forefront of many of our mind after the despicable terrorist attack on 7 October . the pain of the jewish community around the world and the intense human suffering we see in Gaza at the moment be unbearable . israeli hostage be be hold in what must be terrify condition . palestinian civilian , family and child — people who have nothing to do with the terrorist of Hamas — be be kill in their own home . the international community must work night and day to stop the hostility , to get desperately need aid — food , water , medicine and fuel — into Gaza immediately and to call loudly and clearly for the release of all hostage . we must also ensure that international law be uphold , particularly with regard to the principle of proportionality and the serious issue of forcible transfer and the taking of precautionary measure when it come to protect civilian . the action of Hamas on 7 October be to be fully condemn , but the suffering of thousand of innocent civilian , many of whom be not even bear when this conflict begin , can not be see as collateral damage . as the Leader of the opposition say last week , we absolutely defend Israel ' s right to protect itself as a sovereign state , but that be not a blank cheque . as hard as it feel , we must also stay resolute in the hope that there can be a prospect of a last peace in the future . I , for one , will work with colleague and friend across the House — jewish , muslim , Christian or , like I , of no particular faith — to do everything I can to make the all - too - distant vision of a two - state solution more than just word repeat periodically in this place to make we all feel well , but an actual reality for Israelis and Palestinians alike , because they have be let down for far too long . it take hard diplomacy , however , and a Government willing to bring people together to de - escalate tension and provide the leadership and road map to discussion and a political settlement . the Government ' s Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , which have be carry over into this Session of Parliament , do nothing to help that situation . it be a badly draft and unworkable piece of legislation . it restrict council and other public body from take ethical investment and procurement decision , and it single out individual country for different treatment . that can not be the basis of a foreign policy that seek to heal division and unite people , especially when the stake be so high . in the light of recent event , I hope that the Government will reconsider their approach to that divisive Bill . as we head towards a general election next year , people across Batley and Spen and the Spen valley will be look for a Government who bring people together , who value and protect our community and who be willing to get on with the serious , hard work of govern . this King ' s Speech do not offer the change we need . it offer more of the same to a country desperate for change . we on the Opposition Benches have begin set out how the next Labour Government will get on with the hard work involve in get Britain ' s future back , by give back control to local community and by rebuild Britain as a country where opportunity spread across the United Kingdom , where a hard day ' s work be value again , where public service be cherish , where community be enrich , where family have the security and prosperity they deserve , and where our child and young people can look to the future with hope . that be the change that the country and the people of Batley and Spen be cry out for , and that be the change that I know the next Labour Government will deliver . I rise to speak in response to the Gracious Speech , and it be a pleasure to follow so many excellent speech , particularly that of my hon . friend the Member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) . there have be so many speech from the Opposition Benches , and not very many from the Government Benches . interestingly , some of those on the Government Benches be not particularly supportive of the Gracious Speech . this King ' s Speech fail to undo the damage of 13 long year of conservative rule inflict on this country and most of its people . there be any number of topic that I could have choose to speak on to illustrate the damage that the Government have do to my constituent ' life and hope , and how the Gracious Speech have fail those constituent . however , I have time to cover only one topic : housing . the topic on the Order Paper for today ' s debate be opportunity , but we know that opportunity be only possible if someone have a safe , secure and truly affordable home . politician often use the term " housing crisis " , but we be see multiple housing crisis . there be a crisis in the private rent sector , a crisis for leaseholder — in fact , a crisis for most mortgage holder — a crisis for those entangle with shared ownership , a crisis among housing association , and a crisis for those with no home and no hope of have a home . there be also a crisis in home building , with far too few home be build . what do we see in the King ' s Speech to tackle that multi - head hydra on housing ? a ban on no - fault eviction , first promise in 2019 , and a weak , water - down version of leasehold reform . the party of Macmillan , which once build hundred of thousand of home for our hero , have be reduce to ban tent . the once - grand conservative party have be reduce to declare war on tent fabric . how do the housing crisis look to my constituent in Hounslow , Isleworth , Osterley , Brentford and Chiswick — those in what we euphemistically call " housing stress " ? I will start with homelessness and homeless family . all the school in my constituency have a number of homeless child . can the Education Secretary imagine the impact that have on child and their parent ? first , be homeless mean have no settle future ; not know when child will start a new school , or whether they will need to be pull out just as they have make friend or move on before their next set of key exam . it mean no space to do homework for those in overcrowded condition . it mean mother live in one or two room in a big share house wonder whether it be safe to leave the baby or the toddler alone while go to the toilet or to the kitchen . it mean family with three or four child live in a one - bedroom flat or bunk up with friend or relative , and child sleep on sofas and sit on bus for hour to get to and from school . the housing crisis be a poison ; one that be touch so many in west London who be price out of even be able to rent a home , let alone buy one . end no - fault eviction will not help my constituent who do not have a tenancy , or those who do but whose landlord be sell up . how can one expect one ' s child to grow up healthy when there be mould in every single corner of one ' s home ? how can someone look after their own wellbeing when the threat of eviction be hang over their head and no landlord will rent they a home because they do not earn at least £ 60 , 000 ? the monthly rent for a one - bedroom flat in even the cheap part of my constituency be £ 2 , 000 — more than many of my constituent earn . no wonder home ownership be but a distant dream . we need a multi - pronged approach with a proper programme of house building and a sweeping set of reform to the current system , especially in regard to leasehold — perhaps I should call it " fleecehold , " as many of my constituent do . it be a " feudal " practice — not my word , but that of the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — that have leave many of my constituent trap in a serf - like position . he promise I in the Chamber that he would grasp the issue and use rather emotive language about " apply a vice - like " pressure , yet it appear that his grip have soon weaken . I be sure that the developer and freeholder be relieve about that . I will give just some example of the impact on my constituent . one constituent have a 300 % increase in build insurance cost despite no change in the building . another constituent have service charge double in a block even though the lift have be leave break and the intercom out of action . a constituent be unable to move with their partner and child to a big home because of a quirk of the help to buy system . I could go on . those problem all stem from the huge flaw in the leasehold system — huge flaw that the Government ' s modest set of tiny , limited change do not start to address . the shadow of the building safety crisis still hang over many of my constituent . it have be six year since more than 70 people die in the Grenfell fire , and more than a decade since six people die in the Lakanal House fire . constituent — mine and other across the country — be still wait for vital building safety work to begin , despite it be promise month ago for their block . many be not even eligible for support , because their building be less than 12 metre high . the Government have once again fail leaseholder with the crumb on offer . no more leasehold house to be build — big deal . developer should never have start build leasehold house in the first place . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) have say what a Labour Government will do : ban the sale of new leasehold flat as well as house , and fix the mess in the leasehold system to ensure that exist leaseholder can move to commonhold . commonhold must become the default for flat and render leasehold obsolete , and freehold must be the norm for new house . labour would enact the recommendation of the Law Commission ' s report . we will do what this Government have fail to do . the Government ' s failure to fix our break leasehold system be part of a much wide problem : a failure to understand the housing crisis across this country . once again , the Prime Minister be out of touch with the crisis in the country . this King ' s Speech should end the myth that the Conservatives be the party of home ownership . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) say , the Prime Minister cave in to the demand of his own Back Benchers and get rid of housing target . he cave in to pressure from freeholder and drop real leasehold reform . he cave in to the pressure from private landlord and water down rental reform — a water down Government , with a water down King ' s Speech . I want to start by acknowledge the lifetime of service and commitment of her late Majesty . I also acknowledge that , yesterday , we hear the first King ' s Speech in more than 70 year . it be an historic day . I be pleased to be speak in this debate on such an important area — break down barrier , inspire the next generation , and make our country fair and more equal . that be why we be all here . it be certainly why I stand for election to this place back in April 2019 . but , after the last 13 year , this Conservative Government have give up on govern . rather than tear down barrier to opportunity , they be put they up — leave , right and centre . they have leave our country with stagnant growth , skyrocket mortgage , crumble school and hospital , a cost of living crisis , and the people of Newport West with very little faith in this UK Government . the Leader of the Opposition , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , have set out clearly the five mission that drive we . of the five , three be especially relevant to Newport West . we will take back our street from gang , drug dealer and fly - tipper , with strong policing , guarantee patrol in town centre and more criminal put behind bar . we will break down barrier to opportunity so that every young person be ready for work and ready for life . we will switch on great British Energy , a new british company give we cheap bill , new highly pay job and security from tyrant such as Putin . that be a plan to get our country on track , move we on and forward , and bring our country together . when I speak in the debate at the start of the last session , I share an email that I receive from a resident of Newport West , and I want to mention part of it again . she say : " we be in a position right now where we ' re not cope . our energy bill have rise by 54 % and I be afraid that myself and many other will not be able to provide for our family . " nothing have change since my constituent write to I , and nothing the Government have say this week will address those concern or deliver the change that all my constituent need . I hear from a carer in Newport West who earn just over the universal credit threshold . she say : " I literally can ' t afford to be sick . statutory sick pay doesn ' t cover my wage . " in other word , in 2023 , british worker have to make a choice : do they do the unthinkable and go to work while sick , or stay home and go hungry ? the cause of their fear and concern , and the uncertainty face so many people in Newport West and across the country , sit firmly at the door of this Prime Minister and his tired Conservative Government . thank to the Tories , we find ourselves in a desperate situation , not just in all part of the United Kingdom but here in this House too . the Tories close up shop and send we home early on nearly half of all sit day in the last session . I be elect to deliver , to get thing do and to make life well for the people who send I here , and I should be allow to do that , but this Conservative Government be stop we all from do that . they be a zombie Government , paralyse Parliament , with Ministers unable to fill parliamentary time with substantive legislation to tackle the problem the country face because , after 13 year in office , they have already fail . the Prime Minister promise to halve inflation , yet our country be set to have the high inflation of any G7 country this year . we see food price soar and petrol price be once again on the rise . inflation be set to be high at the end of this year than forecast when the Prime Minister take office last year . meanwhile , Labour analysis have find that mortgage holder be hundred of pound a month bad off compare with last year . the Tory mortgage bombshell be alive and well and cause misery to thousand of people across the UK . the Prime Minister promise to grow the economy , yet the UK ' s growth be set to be almost non - existent this year — the second low in the G7 and three time low than the advanced economy average . the tax burden be at a record high , on the watch of every Tory MP sit here in this House — or not , give the empty Government Benches . the next time they send we home early , let we remember that they be make the choice to avoid their responsibility to the people who elect we to this House . the Prime Minister and his friend have let down the people of Newport West , of Wales and of our United Kingdom . the only way — the good way — to change course , to deliver for our people and to move forward be with a Labour Government , and the soon the well . I think the good word to describe what be in the King ' s Speech be " inadequate " . it be clear that the Government have neither the energy nor the vision to deal with some of the difficulty face so many people in our country . the disappointment of the speech add to the general feeling of decline over the past 13 year . what the country really need be change . that be the sense I get from each and every person I go out and speak to : it be time for a change . what they really need be a mission - lead Labour Government focus on put right the mistake of the past 13 year . we hear a perfect illustration of the Government ' s govern by slogan from the Education Secretary at the Dispatch Box early when she talk about the idea of low - value degree . she and other member of the Government often use that phrase , but they have utterly fail to define it . every time they try , they realise that it be impossible to work out . I be go to quote that well - know socialist Lord Willetts , who I believe still hold the Conservative Whip over in the House of Lords . we talk at the Treasury Committee about the impact of somebody ' s degree on their life chance . I question he about evidence from the Resolution Foundation , which say that " it be clear that much of what happen post - university be still determine by certain socio - economic characteristic choose for we by chance at birth " . it add that " the IFS have utilise anonymised tax record and student loan datum to show that " — this be the bit that I hope the Education Secretary be listen to — " even account for institution attend and subject study , graduate from wealthy family earn more . " that be the evidence that we have be give . it be collect from anonymised tax datum , and it show that even among people who do the same course at the same university , if someone come from a wealthy background , they go on to earn more . I put that to Lord Willetts — I be sure member understand that he be not a well - know socialist — and he say , " that be absolutely fair . " he absolutely acknowledge that that be the case . he say : " it be indeed the case that your background , even if you partly overcome it in your time at university , for any give degree , then have an impact in the labour market . the presumption " — this be how he explain why some people do well at university than other , and why background be important — " be that this be to do with all the network and the social capital and the wide opportunity you bring to your hunting for job after you have finish your time or in your last year at university . " so the background , the network and the social capital of the parent have the great impact on how well someone do at university . that be exemplify by the way in which this Government seem to operate , and their apparent view of teacher . teacher do an amazing job , as do many of the people in university , but they be not divorce from the environment in which they exist . someone may go to university and have to work without that social capital or network . another example give by Lord Willetts relate to the unpaid internship that many employer continue to offer . if people be not able to take those up , they will not have the same opportunity as other . Lord Willetts also give some interesting evidence about degree . he say that people from low socioeconomic background tend to go for degree course in which they be train specifically for one occupation , because , he say , they be unable to take the risk . those people do not want to study a subject such as history — which , I should point out , be the degree hold by most top ceo in the FTSE 100 — because they sense the risk of not be employable . we already have a two - tier system in our university job market and in our degree market . this attack that suggest that somehow university be responsible for the inequality in our country that so many people face be ludicrous . once again , the Government be push the blame on to someone else rather than accept the fact that inequality have grow on their watch . if they really want to address the need for aspiration and social mobility , they need to consider address the background that so many people come from . rise — of course I will always give way to the right hon . Gentleman . I be grateful to the hon . Lady . we use to serve on the Education Committee together , but I think that her argument be fundamentally wrong . if it be not wrong , why be there some incredible university — I be think of Nottingham Trent University , the University of East London , which I visit last week , and Staffordshire University — with an extraordinary number of disadvantaged student , who do not have the network and so on to which the hon . Lady refer , but many of whom get good job and good skill ? if that be the case , it be not to do with network ; it be to do with good teaching at good university . I have the utmost respect for the right hon . Gentleman , and I remember his love of Nottingham Trent University from when we serve together on the Education Committee . there be some example of university do great thing to generate the correct network for pupil , but the anonymised datum , include the anonymise tax record , show that even when all that be take into account — and of course there be excellent university do excellent work — what determine the job that people get when they leave university be their parent ' background . those be the fact . the right hon . Gentleman can have alternative view , but he can not have alternative fact . in the context of school and teacher and the difficulty that people may experience when they go to work , I now want to say a little about woman with endometriosis . I have speak about this many time in the Chamber . one in 10 woman have the condition — it be as common as diabete or asthma — but if I ask everyone in the Chamber about it today , I would probably find that many have never hear of it . it be a debilitate condition that affect a woman ' s entire body , and be often link to the menstrual cycle . many of the woman I have speak to who have the condition want to work and to do well . indeed , many work as teach assistant in school or as teacher , because it be a female - dominate profession . our survey establish that half of they take time off work often or very often because of their condition , two fifth worried about lose their job because of their endometriosis and a third believe that they have miss out on promotion opportunity because of it , while 90 % say that it have have an impact on their long - term financial situation , and one in six — remember , this condition be as common as diabete or asthma — have have to give up work all together . all that be require to keep these woman in work be the usual reasonable adjustment and a consideration of the way in which work be structure . some great cross - party work have be do on the menopause , and policy in the workplace seem to be change , but I would have really like to see in the King ' s Speech a measure to address endometriosis and some of the other condition affect woman . locally in my constituency , the Hull and East Yorkshire endometriosis group , which be full of amazing , formidable woman , be work with the trade union to create a right charter and to encourage workplace to look at how woman with endometriosis be treat . but again , we do not see anything on right at work in the King ' s Speech . there be no employment Bill . there be no new deal for work people . there be nothing . fundamentally , if we want to get the change that people need — the genuine opportunity for all people from all background and the opportunity for woman to continue in work — what we need be a Labour Government . what be know as the Queen ' s Speech , now the King ' s speech , be see as an opportunity by the incumbent Government to lay out an ambitious policy agenda for the future . what we have see from this King ' s Speech , at what many might call the fag end of this Government ' s time in office , be anything but ambitious . it be a collection of measure to try to cause division in the country . this government do not want to fight the next election on their record in office , so they will fight it on what they say Labour will do . they will try to describe what be mainstream as extreme in order to promote their right - wing agenda as moderate — for example , by water down our climate change commitment . I will go even far and suggest that the Government want to placate even more of the Prime Minister ' s right - wing colleague by bring about the notion of climate scepticism , as though our nation ' s fear and worry about climate change be overblown and unfounded , when in fact the evidence of excessive flooding and heatwave have appear before our own people ' s eye . the use of the word " scepticism " be design to conjure up a vision of the past , where Euroscepticism appear to vanquish those who wish to remain in the European Union . well , we have all see how that play out . if climate scepticism catch on in the UK , it will do the same damage to our emission target and our reputation that Euroscepticism do to our trade , our economy and our reputation . this Prime Minister , in order to try to distance himself from the previous conservative incumbent in no . 10 , be now try to make out that he be a break from the past , where there be once cross - party consensus , through environmental measure and the like of the cancellation of HS2 . he be try to dissociate himself from 13 year of Conservative Government failure , and to present himself as something new . the trick that he be try to deploy be to bring forward measure that I would describe as counterintuitive . by play down the need for strong environmental protective measure and the need for hs2 to go to Manchester , he be be different for difference ' s sake . climate science tell we that clean car and well - insulate home will save energy and help the progress towards net zero . economist do not just look at the cost to the nation of HS2 ; they look at the good estimate , which by the Government ' s own analysis suggest that the completion of hs2 to Manchester would have bring £ 24 billion a year to the north ' s economy and create 96 , 000 job . it would have improve capacity and connectivity and close the productivity gap with London . the Prime Minister think that the public will be fool into think he be a different Prime Minister with a fresh agenda for the future and forget the fact that he have be in government since 2018 . the crime — I nearly say " the crime minister " ; it be a crime , some of the thing that I think be go on on the Government Benches . the Prime Minister have be in the Cabinet for more than four year , be Chancellor of the Exchequer for two and have now be Prime Minister for a whole year , so it be not as though he be new to be in government . provide solution to problem that do not exist be part of the Prime Minister ' s agenda . labour be not in government now , so it be irrelevant whether we would promote the annual issuing of North sea oil and gas licence . if we be in government and those licence have already be grant , as be likely to be the case , the decision would already have be take . if those licence be not already grant , a Labour Government would have the choice and do what be good for the UK . in addition , the Government be fabricate policy that the country would get under a Labour Government , such as a meat tax , car sharing and seven different type of bin . what have we see in this King ' s Speech ? we have a sentencing Bill that will require whole - life sentence for the bad murderer . it would mean that rapist could not be release early and make short sentence more likely for less crime . that sound okay on the face of it , but it have more to do with the fact that prison be full and the Government ' s build programme can not keep pace with conviction . I have a constituent who be a victim of rape and have have to wait five year for her case to come to court . there be more of a problem get rapist into prison in the first place , with a conviction rate of only 2 % , never mind let they out early . there be many problem with the criminal justice system . sentencing be a good headline , but it be not the answer to the system ' s many woe . this government be run out of steam . they should call a general election tomorrow , because the country be cry out for change . it be a pleasure and a privilege to close today ' s debate for the Opposition on what we hope will be the last king ' s Speech from a Conservative Government for many year , because the general election can not come soon enough and the british people should have the opportunity to have their say . open the debate today , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) powerfully and movingly set out Labour ' s case that this Government have let down our country and our people : our school — crumbling ; our skill system — break ; our housing market — fail . our country can not go on like this . what we need be change , and the time for change be now . crucially , the only party to deliver the change that we all need be today ' s change Labour party . today ' s contribution from so many of my colleague have spell out the urgency of that change . we hear from many of my hon . and right hon . friend on the challenge our country be face right now and the action a Labour Government would be take on the side of work people . my right hon . friend the Members for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) and for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) , for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) , for Kingston upon Hull West and Hessle ( Emma Hardy ) and for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) all set out very clearly the difference a Labour Government would make to our country . one of the divide that such debate show so powerfully be between the core belief of our party . today it be distinctively labour to believe that government can be and must be a force for good in people ' s life — not just administration but transformation , and not just keep the show on the road but define the road ahead — and only Labour understand that the purpose of government be to extend freedom , to extend opportunity , for each of we and for all of we . when we talk about opportunity , we mean that in its widest sense : educational opportunity for all of our child to be ready not just to live and work in our world but to understand and enjoy it . we want a country in which all our child , regardless of background , can achieve and thrive — economic opportunity , set up our young people to achieve and succeed in the economy of today and tomorrow , with the chance not just to get by but to get on ; social opportunity , so that family be not judge but support , and so child and young people know that the future be for we all to shape together , not to face alone ; cultural opportunity , to experience art , music , sport and drama , to get involve , to engage , to write , to participate , to pursue and to perform . that be what we mean when we talk about opportunity : opportunity for each of we and for all of we . the change that Labour will bring be our determination to ensure that background be no barrier to opportunity , that excellence must be for everyone , and that high and rise standard for all our child and in all our school be once again reality . the speech we hear yesterday from the Prime Minister and early from the Education Secretary be not about break down barrier to opportunity ; they be miss opportunity . let we think of all the issue that we might have hear about today . after all , the Department for Education ' s own risk register , publish back in the summer , list six of they — six issue that the Government know they need to tackle , and on which they refuse to act . what of they ? on industrial action , they have oversee some of the most sustained strike in our school for decade and have no plan to address the reason for they . on education recovery after the pandemic , the Prime Minister say in his own word that he have " maxe out , " and the Education Secretary have give up . on school building collapse , we hear not a word — although the Secretary of State have be keen to tell we that kid love nothing more than a Portakabin . on look - after child , we hear not a word . on high - need cost pressure on the special educational need and disability and alternative provision system , we hear nothing at all . on cyber - security , we hear zero . on issue after issue , we have see no evidence that the Government have learn and no sign that they be ready . they be sleepwalk into disaster . this go far wide , as there be no plan for early year education ; no plan to tackle the persistent absenteeism in our school ; no plan for a well and more effective school inspection and improvement system ; no plan to tackle the grow problem of child who be miss altogether from our school ; no plan to deal with the exodus of qualified teacher from our school and the grow crisis in recruitment ; no plan for child ' s social care or to tackle the crisis in provision face child with special educational need and disability ; and no plan for fair student finance . there be not a thing . what do the Government give we in that very thin set of priority ? we get just a post - date cheque on post - 16 qualification — a promise and no plan ; an attack on our university , on the young people who attend they , and on their hope , dream and aspiration . the Conservatives ' determination be never clear and never sharp than when they see the chance to kick at the ambition of their favourite target : other people ' s child . of course , it would be easy to stand here and say that the answer be simply fiscal , but it be not just about level of spending — it be also about choice and priority . we hear some imaginative and creative storytelling from the Secretary of State about Labour ' s record in government , but I be very proud of what we achieve . I see with my own eye and experience the difference that our record in power make in my community and for a generation of child . million of child be lift out of poverty ; and we have high standard in our school , well support teacher , sure Start , the education maintenance allowance and Building Schools for the Future . that be a record of which we be very proud , and the Government have nothing to speak to on this . thirteen year ago , the share of total public expenditure on education and social protection relate to family be 16 . 3 % , but by last year it have fall to just 11 . 6 % . there have be an almost 30 % drop in the share of Government spending on the next generation . this be a story not of tough decision for long - term change , but of Conservative Members make easy choice for short - term gain . for 13 long year , they have chip away at opportunity , Budget after Budget , with law after law , chase headline , not tackle issue , and take chance away from our child , ravage the opportunity of a generation . I would say that the Government have balance the book on the back of our child , but they have not even manage that . taxis on work people be at the high level for almost 70 year and public sector net debt have rise to almost 98 % of GDP . Theirs be a record of failure and of shame . labour ' s focus on opportunity will start with our young child . the Government ' s childcare entitlement expansion come with no plan for delivery and no workforce to make it happen . labour be determined that childcare be more than work choice for parent — it be life chance for child . that be why we have ask Sir David Bell , the former chief inspector of Ofsted and former permanent secretary in the Department for Education , to lead our work on set out the standard and workforce we need for the early education our child deserve . we need high and rise standard , right from the start . we need the good start to every education and every life . we will bring early language intervention — some of the good evidence of all of our educational approach — into setting and classroom across our country . we will bring high and rise standard for all our child , into all our school . we will bring breakfast club to every primary school , in every corner of our country . we be determined to tackle the huge surge in mental ill - health among our child , with mental health support in every secondary school and mental health hub in every community . we will address the grow challenge of persistent absenteeism , which be now on track to mean 2 million child regularly miss school by 2025 — that be one in four of our child . that be because today there be no great failing by this Government than stand by , as more and more child miss school for day on end , term after term . they be a lost generation , miss from England ' s school . high and rise standard mean child must be in school for the education they deserve . it mean a reset of the relationship between family , school and government . I pay tribute to the Children ' s Commissioner for England , for whom the epidemic of student absence from our school have rightly be a concern that she have press with the Government , and to Sky News , which have be relentless in pursue the issue . we will review the curriculum so it be fit for the age we live in and the future we need , fill with the knowledge our child need to achieve and thrive , weave through with the speaking , listening and digital skill that our child need to succeed — high and rise standard in every classroom and every school . we will use the money raise from end the tax break that private school enjoy to invest in 6 , 500 more teacher . we will ensure all new teacher be qualified . we will drive change in how Ofsted report on our school , end one - word summary and empower parent to be partner in the push for well . and we will deliver proper career guidance and worthwhile work experience for all our child , in every school — high and rise standard , through every year of school , so our child be ready for work and ready for life . we will reform the fail apprenticeship levy into a growth and skill levy . we will devolve skill budget to combined authority to bring decision close to our local community and economy . we will bring in a new national body , Skills England , to drive the change we need to see across Government and beyond . and we will reform student finance to bring fairness to a system that punish new graduate , young worker , those start a family and those deliver our public service — high and rise standard for all our young people throughout their education and their life . by - election after by - election , from Tamworth to Rutherglen , from Selby to Mid Bedfordshire , make it clear that Britain be long for change . Speech after speech from Ministers tell we they be out of idea , out of ambition and out of time . the choice , whenever it come , in the month ahead , will be a simple one . today , it be clear than ever that only Labour can bring the change Britain need . I call upon Government Members to end the wait , to put country before party and to deliver a general election now . I encourage the Member lead the Adjournment debate to make themselves available , as I be sure we will be start that debate in a matter of minute , before 7 pm . that be not to encourage the Minister not to give we a full response . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) . both she and I enter the House of Commons age just 26 , grow up in working - class family in the north - east and think that she would be a well leader of the Labour party than the current one . the title of the debate be " break down barrier to opportunity " . it be testament to the progress that the country have make that myself , the Secretary of State for Education , my right hon . friend the Member for Chichester ( Gillian Keegan ) , the deputy leader of the Labour party , the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , and the shadow Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South , be all from working - class family in northern town and be now respond to the King ' s Speech in the mother of all Parliaments . I think that be a good thing . it be a huge honour to close the debate on his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech , the first in over 70 year , and on the vital issue of unlock the great potential of our young people and unleash opportunity across all part of our country , on behalf of the Government . as have be widely acknowledge during the debate , education be one of the most powerful lever we have to help achieve this Government ' s define mission of level up economic growth , improve people ' s quality of life and restore the pride in the place they call home . I thank everyone for their contribution to the debate , in particular my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , my hon . friend the Members for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) , for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) and for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) , and who could forget the chair of the APPG for Shakespeare , my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen and Rowley Regis ( James Morris ) . like my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education , I start my career as an apprentice , before spend nine year in Teesside ' s chemical industry , so I be especially passionate about ensure that the next generation have the good possible choice and opportunity . as the Prime Minister have say , for the next generation , and indeed for our country , that mean take difficult decision for the long term , so that we lie the foundation for sustained success , enable people everywhere to build a bright future . and in that , as my right hon . friend , the Education Secretary , have rightly say , we be build on a proud record . huge credit must go to the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) and the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , for their ambition and vision back in 2010 for take on the soft bigotry of those who believe that some be pre - destine for success while other be not . none the less , we know that there be more to do to equip child start school today to take up the job of tomorrow , start with no more rip - off degree , no more arbitrary target for university , and no more assumption that university be the only route to success . instead , we be give every generation real choice and a commitment to a real return on their investment . will the Minister give way ? the hon . Lady have speak many time in this debate , so I think I shall make some progress . rise — we be give a commitment to a real return on their investment , their hard work , their hard cash by deliver more high - quality technical education — will the Minister give way ? if the Minister be go to give way , I be sure that he would give an indication that he wish to do so . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . as I be say , we be give every generation real choice and a commitment to a real return on their investment , their hard work and their hard cash by deliver more high quality technical education than any other Government , through t - level , Higher Technical Qualifications and apprenticeship . we be also deliver for adult look to learn new skill through skill bootcamp , the Lifelong Learning Entitlement — bring university , college and business together through Institutes of Technology . we be demand excellence all round for academic and technical route . our family hub and " Strong Start for Life " programme will also provide wide - range support that join up service , include target help during those first critical day of a child ' s life , give the next generation the good possible start in life . just as we be make sure that all child and young people be set up to succeed , so we be make sure that every part of our country be set up for success . the White Paper that precede our great Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , which I be delighted to say be now on the statute book , recognise a fundamental truth : that while talent be spread equally across the UK , opportunity be not . although our country be such a success story , not everyone share equally in that success . we be put that right by shift opportunity and power decisively towards work people and their family . we will empower local leader and invest billion to : create high - skilled , well - pay job ; improve transport ; improve health outcome ; protect community space ; invest in research and innovation ; and increase pride and belong . since take on the job of Minister in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , I have see what a difference this be make in place such as Middlesbrough , where I grow up , Keighley , Grimsby and Hull , because , for prosperity to be share , we must first attract the good job that our town and region need by create the right environment for business to operate in . a wind farm manufacturer who be look at where to base their next production facility need a reason to pick Redcar or Hull over Antwerp or Rotterdam . only by invest in the full package of incentive — from skill to infrastructure , business environment to quality of life — can we make this happen . that be exactly what we be do through the UK ' s network of freeport , which offer a comprehensive package of measure , comprise tax relief , custom , business rate retention , planning , regeneration , innovation and trade and investment support . they also create opportunity in leave - behind community . I be think of my own constituency of Redcar and Cleveland and the Teesside freeport where BP be invest in carbon capture and storage . it have partner with Redcar and Cleveland College to provide scholarship for young people to train as clean energy technician . we be provide the skill that be prepare people for the job of the future , so that they can embrace the opportunity that be be create by this Government . but that be not all . we have listen to those who feel that their community have be leave behind . through our £ 1 . 1 billion long - term plan for town , we be put power and flexible funding in the hand of local people , so that they can invest in what be most important to they . town such as Mansfield , Great Yarmouth , Blyth , Oldham , Grimsby , Merthyr Tydfil be just some of the 55 community that will receive this support . as this government invest in create opportunity and drive aspiration across our Union , we be channel the investment that our town and region need to succeed , lead by local leader who know their community well . in 2010 , Greater London be the only area in England with devolve power . we want more to follow , bring decision make close to the people it affect . now , under this government , we have 10 area with implement mayoral devolution deal , and five deal in the process of implementation . devolve education and skill be at the heart of our devolution framework , because unless there be good school with high standard , and institution offer qualification that employer value , prosperity can not be share across all community . when we think about disadvantage , all of we will be acutely aware that disadvantaged child have be disproportionately impact by the pandemic . we be determined to support they to catch up and reach their potential , which be why we have invest in education recovery programme such as the recovery premium , the national tutoring programme and the 16 - 19 tuition fund . unlike the Labour party , we will never accept that family background or geography should ever dictate destiny . long before there be a levelling - up Minister , level up be exactly what we have be do over the past 13 year in our school , in our world - class university , on skill and through apprenticeship , reverse a decade of decline , low expectation and low ambition . the reward that we be reap now be very real . we have well school than ever before , with school in some of the most deprived part of the country produce some of the good result . More young people from state school be go to our good university . our nine and 10 - year - old be top the league for read in the west . we have the good university in Europe . while other talk the talk , we walk the walk , and just as we have succeed in turn the tide in education and skill , so we will succeed in turn the tide for people and place long take for grant by the Labour party . as we have see from today ' s debate , level up growth , opportunity , prosperity , pride and belong for everyone in all part of our country to contribute to and share in be a mission for we all — but there be only one party that can be trust to deliver . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . Football Regulation Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to speak about football regulation and about read football club in tonight ' s Adjournment debate . before I start , I will say a few word of thank to read fan and to all those campaign to secure the future of football club around the country . I also thank the Minister for his support ; I appreciate that he be stand in for a colleague at the last minute . I particularly thank the reading fan who set up the sell before we Dai campaign , which be call on the current owner to sell the club to a new , more responsible owner . I would like to mention Ian Morton , who be here tonight , Eleanor Flood and many other . I also thank our supporter trust , and many other fan group . as a supporter - run club , Chester football club have not - go - into - debt write into its constitution . for they , it mean that they will never again lose the club to the whim of feckless owner . Chester FC compete against club that do not have that safeguard and be therefore always at a competitive disadvantage because it be committed to a sustainable future for the club . football regulation must mean that that be tackle . do my hon . friend agree that meaningful regulation , and financial incentive to promote good governance with supporter representation at its heart , have to be the way forward , from the premiership to the grassroot ? I thank my hon . friend ; of course , the interest of fan and club must come first . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this debate on such an important topic . Southend United football club be the heart of the new city of Southend , but it have have a terrible time and be currently under new ownership . will he join I in welcome the football governance Bill in yesterday ' s King ' s Speech , which we hope will pave the way to protect club such as Southend United for generation to come ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . in fact , the point of my speech be not only to thank the Minister for that Bill , but to probe and ask question about it . we be go for a hat - trick of intervention , one after the other . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on bring this debate forward . it be critical not only for those here , but for many other who be unfortunately not able to make it . I agree with the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) that the football governance Bill appear in the King ' s Speech be a significant step forward . in Strangford , we have many fantastic local club , include Ards football club in the major town of Newtownards . do the hon . Gentleman agree that a football regulator for finance must apply to all of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and especially to support small , local club so they can reach their full potential ? this be not just about Reading or Southend ; it be about all of we in this great United Kingdom , if we do the thing right . I thank the hon . Gentleman and I hope that the action the Government be propose be bring forward and have the wide possible impact across the UK . I take this opportunity to thank the thousand of local fan who have show their support for a change of ownership of read FC , include the 1 , 400 people who join a march from our town centre to the stadium a few day ago . it be an incredible show of support , and one that lead to the unexpected closure of the A33 due to the huge number who take part . I thank all the driver on the other side of the road — a two - lane trunk road — who hoot in support and cheer we on . I thank Reading FC legend Dave Kitson for lead the march and for his support for both the club and the campaign . I thank our local council , include the council ' s leader , Jason Brock , Councillor John Ennis , who have be a Reading fan since 1975 , Councillor Adele Barnett - Ward and other . I thank John in particular , because he take part in a previous march in 1983 against Robert Maxwell ' s ill - thought - through plan to merge reading with Oxford United . I should add that John have be our lead councillor for transport for just four month and already he have shut a major road , which be not something that many councillor get to do . I also thank my fellow Berkshire mp , particularly the hon . member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) and my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . sadly , the hon . member for Bracknell can not attend the debate due to illness , but he be a fan and hugely enjoy the march . despite the local political difference , he march next to John and other seasoned campaigner and marcher from the Labour council — although , funnily enough , he seem to feel more at home when the fan start chant " Blue Army " as we walk down the road . I thank he , the Minister and colleague from across the House for their support . I turn now to the substance of the debate . it be clear to we all that there be an ownership problem in english football . I will use the debate to explain the terrible impact of that ownership problem on Reading and , by implication , on many club across the country , and to ask the Minister to reassure fan , player , staff and local community . as I say early , I welcome the Government ' s announcement that they plan to bring forward a Bill to regulate football . that be an important step . I call on the Government to live up to that promise . minister must ensure that the Bill include proper power for the regulator and , crucially , that there be enough parliamentary time for the Bill in the last month before a general election . above all , the Government need to show we that they have the determination to press forward with what they have promise . I know my hon . friend the shadow Minister be willing to work with they , as be we mp , fan and the whole football community . I hope the Minister will confirm that the Government be serious and will commit to they take this vital work forward as a matter of urgency . I will turn now to read football club . to put it clearly and simply , as loyal fan do on the march last week , we want our read back . the story of what be happen to our wonderful club be quite simply heartbreaking . it be terrible , and I could use much less parliamentary language — as be occasionally hear as we march down the A33 . the situation we face stand in stark contrast to the history and tradition of our great club . reading be found in 1871 , and it be one of the old club in english football . the fan , the player of the man ' s and woman ' s team , and the staff have all be badly let down . in man ' s football , reading have be a championship club , knock on the door of the premier league . it have enjoy three season in the top flight . in fact , we be one place outside get into Europe at the end of our first premier league season , in 2006 - 07 . fan have vivid memory of the ninety , the noughtie and our most recent time in the premier league 10 year ago — the proud possession of one of my child be a ball sign by the whole team from that heady time — under the wise leadership of brilliant manager such as Steve Coppell , who guide gifted player , many of whom be local and come up through the club ' s academy , and the committed support of the then owner , Sir John Madejski , whom I thank for his wise stewardship of the club . the club and the wide football community use to talk about " the reading way " : develop and motivate player at a local family club , and achieve far more than other would have think possible . that include — I particularly like say this — beat Watford 4 - 1 to win the Simod cup at Wembley ; win the championship a number of time , most recently in 2011 ; knock on the door of the premier league in successive play - off ; and great FA cup run , include sadly lose to Arsenal in the semi - final in 2015 . crucially , the woman ' s team be also punch above their weight , and be a real success story . until recently , they be play in the woman ' s super league thank to brilliant player and management , and be on the brink of do something amazing . sadly , that run of success have now end . the club be sell in 2013 , and a succession of owner have preside over a worsen situation . unfortunately , our man ' s team be now languish at the bottom of league one , through no fault of their own — 16 point have be deduct from the club in the last few month for an array of financial mismanagement by the current owner , chinese businessman Dai Yongge , not for anything that have happen on the pitch . that financial mismanagement include Mr Yongge fail to pay wage and national insurance . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have lodge wind - up petition before the NI be pay . Mr Yongge ' s term as owner start well , with investment in player and the training ground , but sadly he seem to lose interest . this may be a familiar story to other who follow the history of many of our club . the effect of those point deduction have be absolutely appalling . read ' s man ' s team be relegate from the championship to league one at the end of last season , and further point deduction have leave we at the very bottom of that league . to make matter bad , it now look as if the club will be relegate again at the end of this season . that would leave we play in league two . the owner have also pull the funding for the woman ' s team , which make they unsustainable as a professional outfit — sadly , the player be no long fully professional — and they too have be relegate . let I say a brief word about player , staff and fan . quite simply , they be do a determined job to remain positive in an extremely difficult and challenging situation that be not of their making . we be all extremely proud of they , and I pay tribute to they all . young , less experienced player — the man ' s team be the young in the league — who in some case should still be in the academy or on the bench , be play with grit and determination despite everything that have be throw against they . fan with family and busy job have come together to fight for our club in a community campaign that have make the national news . we be all very proud of they , and I want to say : " come on you r ' s ! " I apologise for be late to the debate — I be catch out by the early start . my hon . friend be make a good point about the way in which football be often run by individual who can , in the end , bring a whole club and its community down because of the way the club be manage . at Sheffield Wednesday , Dejphon Chansiri have put a lot of money into the club — great — but he have be say recently that he may stop the funding , which be obviously a considerable threat . in the end , club be not just about the person who own they , or the chairman ; they be about fan . club belong to they , and they should have the right to be consult right the way through on all those issue . we hope that the regulator , when it come in , will have the power to do precisely that . my hon . friend make an excellent point , which I will address later in my speech . I hope the Minister will offer further detail about what he propose , and I urge he to use his speech to give we some hope , some cheer , some optimism , and some fire in our belly to help fight for the future of our beloved club . the Government have announce a Bill to introduce a football regulator , which be welcome . that Bill have the potential to lead to real change in english football , but sadly it be not clear how far the Government will respond to fan ' concern , and indeed to those of the football authority . we be all concerned about owner , such as Dai Yongge , who seem to swoop in , hope to make money , and then lose interest if they be not successful . we be at a very early stage with the Bill , so I hope the Minister will be able to reassure we about the thrust of that Bill . I ask he to provide some detail on a number of key point . for example , can the Minister spell out what the Government hope the Bill will achieve ? can he be clear about the power he be consider for the regulator , and will he reassure fan that they will actually have a say ? will he also put an end to club be punish for the action of irresponsible owner ? in short , will he commit to do what it take to make sure that no more club and no more fan have to suffer what we have have to suffer ? Dai Yongge have announce that he plan to sell reading . he make that announcement in October , and so far there appear to be three bidder who have show an interest in the club . that mean that the sale could go through before the Bill be pass , so be the Minister able to reassure I about the club ' s immediate future ? if the sale do go ahead , will he commit to reading become a pilot for new regulation to protect the club , and indeed to other measure that may be necessary to offer support ? Mr Deputy Speaker , I thank you once again for allow I to have this debate tonight , and I thank member who have intervene on I . Most of all , I thank read fan and our whole community . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) on secure this debate . as he mention at the start of his remark , it be the intention of the Minister for Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , to respond to the debate , but he have have to return to his constituency urgently for reason that I think colleague will fully understand . in his remark , the hon . Gentleman highlight the deep concern that he and many of the fan he represent have express regard football ownership . I pay tribute to his commitment , and to theirs ; have listen to his description , we understand how difficult it must have be for those fan over the past few year . we be very much aware of the passion and interest that many hon . member feel about the long - term sustainability and governance of english football , and their commitment to their local club . I thank the hon . member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) and my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for their contribution to this debate . in particular , as a Member of Parliament for Essex , I be very much aware of the difficulty face by Southend United , and my hon . friend have be a fantastic champion for the fan of that club . the presence of those hon . member in this debate demonstrate how important football club be to the life of people in this country . in 2011 , when I chair the Culture , Media and Sport Committee — quite a considerable time ago now — we conduct an inquiry into football governance . it be somewhat depressing that , 12 year later , we be still debate many of the same issue . however , I hope that the inclusion of the football governance Bill in the King ' s Speech yesterday will reassure the hon . member for Reading East and other that this Government be intent on deliver and safeguard the future of football club for the benefit of community and fan . the hon . Gentleman have talk about his own local club , steep in the fabric of its community . it have be relegate , suffer sporting sanction and face financial penalty because of reckless decision make by owner and terrible mismanagement . we have also hear about poor and non - existent governance practice , with fan be prevent from influence key decision that affect they and have to petition local council , in some case to protect stadium . all such incident threaten the long - term health and sustainability of all club , not just read . we have hear about how english football club make significant contribution , and also about what happen when the community be let down by irresponsible owner in charge of football club . no employee , be they a player or , indeed , someone in the club shop , should fear not be pay . it be the local community and fan that be the lifeblood of these club , and they bear the brunt and fallout of bad ownership decision . they see where the structure be not work for the good of the game , and they can articulate most clearly how these be set right . my colleague in the ministerial team have prioritise engage with fan and listen to their concern , and I would like to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) for lead the fan - lead review of football governance . this have be of immense value in develop the White Paper and during the period of the consultation we hold early this year . I would like to thank the Football Supporters Association for its support ; its contribution have be extremely valuable . too many club have be bring to the brink with unsuitable owner take over , strip they of their asset and refuse to fund they any more . we be committed to break this cycle of inappropriate ownership , financial instability and poor governance practice . that be why the inclusion of the Bill in yesterday ' s King ' s Speech be so important . the Bill will establish an independent football regulator , which will put fan back at the heart of football and help to deliver a sustainable future for all club . it will strengthen the governance and financial resilience of football club to protect the national game and club link with community and fan . crucially , the regulator will address systemic financial issue in football , while provide the certainty and sustainability require to drive future investment and growth . this will ensure that english football remain the global success story and tackle the harm that exist . the Bill will give fan more of a voice in the running of their club by set a minimum standard of fan engagement . club will need to meet this , and will be require to comply with the fa on its new rule for club heritage . it will give fan a veto over change to the badge and home shirt colour , in addition to the strong exist protection for club name . Most club have a strong relationship with their fan and consciously engage they in decision about club heritage , but not all do . for instance , fan of Cardiff City and Hull City will understand the importance of these measure after they recently have to battle to bring back or to keep their club ' s colour and badge . likewise , the new system will create strengthen owner and director test to make sure a club ' s custodian — their owner and director — be suitable . I think the consultation with fan be absolutely at the heart of this . it be at the heart of the fan - lead review , and I pay tribute to the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) for that . for the fan , it will be really important that the legislation specify how fan group will be appoint as part of the consultation , and it should not be leave to the owner of club to decide which fan they want to talk to and which they do not , because that be at the heart of the current problem in many club . rise — I just remind the Minister that at 7 o ' clock the Whip will once more move the motion for the Adjournment of the House . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I do understand the concern express by the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . certainly , we would not wish to have a system in which the director decide who they do and do not wish to talk to . it will be part of the licensing requirement that fan be involve . I be sure we will wish to explore that far during the passage of the Bill , but it be certainly the intention that that be one of the condition for licensing . we have see other example of fan fight back against their owner to save their club at Blackpool , Charlton Athletic and , as we have hear tonight , read . that should not have have to happen . do the Minister agree that part of the issue here be about the test for ownership ? it be interesting in read ' s case that Dai Yongge be refuse as a potential owner for Hull City when it be in the premiership — unlike reading , which be in the championship at the time . the English Football League allow he to become the owner of Reading . there be an issue there and a question about the fit and proper test for owner . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s concern on that point , particularly give the record of the owner of his particular club . the Bill will insert as one of the duty of the new football regulator the requirement to conduct an owner and director test , to make sure that club and fan be protect from irresponsible owner . I be sure that we will want to explore that matter in great detail when the Bill come to be debate in this House . the Bill will also require club to seek the regulator ' s approval for any sale or relocation of the stadium and to demonstrate how they have consult their fan as part of that . to give another example , at Derby County we see the issue cause by the decision to sell the club stadium to a separate company own by the club ' s owner . more recently , as the hon . Gentleman have graphically describe , we have see fan at read petition the council to list the ground as an asset of community value , to make sure that it can not be sell quickly and without warn by the current owner . the stadium that the club play in not only have significant value to fan , but can be a club ' s most valuable asset . in addition , the regulator will prevent club from join breakaway league . as member will be aware , in 2021 fan be face with the prospect of a breakaway european super league that be fundamentally uncompetitive and threaten to undermine the footballe pyramid . fan will no long face the prospect of see their club sign up to such ill - thought - out proposal . ultimately , we want a thriving footballe pyramid and more money must flow through the game to make that happen . on financial distribution , it remain our firm belief that the good solution be a football - lead solution , but if one be not find , the regulator will have a backstop power to intervene and force a solution . I hope a resolution on that point will be find soon , and I urge both side to reach a deal as soon as possible . it be in the game ' s interest to avoid the risk of further financial uncertainty . in short , through this legislation we be protect the fundamental of the game we love while ensure a more sustainable future with fan at its heart for generation to come . meanwhile , alongside the introduction of legislation , the Government will take the time to explore the extent to which preparatory work can be do ahead of the regulator be establish in law . I fully recognise the plight of read football club , as the hon . Gentleman describe , and I understand his wish that measure should be bring in as soon as possible . I be afraid that I can not commit to a pilot at this stage , but I can tell he that the experience of read FC and other club will continue to inform policy development and decision about how the regulator be set up . likewise , any sale that take place in advance of the regulator be a matter for the football authority ' exist rule and check on owner and director , but I urge hon . member who be concerned on that point to encourage club and their leadership to engage with the team in the Department as we take the policy forward . if the hon . Gentleman have particular concern , I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey , will be happy to talk to he far . I thank he for bring the matter before the House . I think we all look forward to the introduction of the Bill and the establishment of a regulator in due course . I certainly share his view that that need to happen quickly , and before a general election . question put and agree to . House adjourn .