message to ATTEND his MAJESTY Message to attend his Majesty deliver by the Lady Usher of the Black Rod . the Speaker , with the House , go up to attend his Majesty ; on their return , the Speaker suspend the sitting . Speaker ' s Statement the House have direct the Speaker to make a statement at the beginning of each Session about the duty and responsibility of hon . member . I begin by remind hon . member of their duty to observe the code of conduct agree by the House and to behave with civility and fairness in all their dealing . the behaviour code apply to member as it apply to other who visit or work within Parliament , and it provide very clear guidance . unacceptable behaviour will be deal with seriously , independently and with effective sanction . the House assert its privilege of freedom of speech . that privilege be enjoy by member of Parliament only in their work in this House ; as private individual , we be equal under the law with those whom we represent . it be there to ensure that our constituent can be represent by we without fear or favour . it be an obligation upon we all to exercise that privilege with responsibility . I now come to the accuracy of Members ' contribution , which be more tricky . the Speaker do not have the power to police the accuracy of Members — [ hon . member : " Shame . " ] it may be a shame , but these be the fact . the Speaker do not have the power to police the accuracy of Members ' contribution , include those of Ministers . it be therefore incumbent on member to be accurate in what they say in this House , but if a member be inaccurate by mistake , they should correct that mistake as soon as possible . let we now turn to courtesy and temperate language . member must also be mindful of the impact of what we say , not only on other member but on those who follow our proceeding , and member should be hear courteously whatever their view . I draw the House ' s attention to the guidance on rule of behaviour and courtesy in the House of Commons . a new version for this Session be now available , clarify those area . turn to criticism of Members , in this place we be honourable member , and the language we use about each other should reflect that . if a member fall short of the standard expect of we all , there be way of deal with that , but not by accusation make as sideswipe during question or debate . if we fail to treat each other with respect in debate , that diminish our work , but it also risk raise the temperature of discussion outside this place , particularly on social medium , which already too often descend into online abuse against hon . member . it be so important that hon . member be able to raise matter with I freely . for that reason , I keep such correspondence confidential , include application for urgent question . I remind member that it be equally important that my response , particularly on matter of privilege , be treat with the same respect . I hope that certain member be listen . I also wish to give some advice about seek to speak within the Chamber . the Deputy Speakers and I take into account a number of factor when determine whom we call during business that be not ballot , and one factor we consider carefully be how often a Member speak . in other word , if you have speak much more than a colleague then , other thing be equal , that colleague be more likely to be call — or certainly more likely to be call early — especially in the next debate for which you both apply . [ hon . member : " Poor Jim ! " ] Don ' t worry ; I be come to he . [ laughter . ] I know that it can be frustrating not to be call in a debate , or to be call very late . that frustration may continue , but put it on Twitter be not a good way of try to be call early . my response will be that I can not call you early because you have already tell the world , so think carefully before use Twitter to try to intimidate the Speaker . prioritise debate , question time , urgent question and statement in which you seek to participate be one way of try to avoid that happen . now that we have start a new session , the reset button start everybody ' s score at zero . that even include Jim Shannon — [ Laughter . ] I should make it clear that when count score , different principle apply to Front Benchers from the three large party who be nominate to speak on behalf of their party . staff in my office be happy to offer further advice and help . let we come to something very important : security and safety . I want all member and everyone in the parliamentary community to be able to go about their work safely , both online and here in Westminster . the security of this building and those who work here depend on we all . we have a duty to be vigilant and to assist those whose job it be to maintain this place as a safe place of work . yes , we be member of Parliament and we be elect to be here , but remember that those who carry out security duty here be do so to ensure that we be all safe . please , try not to abuse they — you should not abuse they — and do not take advantage of your position . before move to the first business of the new Session , I would like to express my very good wish to all hon . member and all those who work in this House . I thank the staff of the House , whether they work in security or elsewhere . they be look after we , so please realise that they have a job to do . I thank all the catering staff , because without they we could not function properly . outlawry Bill a Bill for the more effectual prevent Clandestine outlawry be read the first time , and order to be read a second time . King ' s Speech I have to acquaint the House that this House have this day attend his Majesty in the House of Peers , and that his Majesty be pleased to make a most gracious Speech from the Throne to both Houses of Parliament , of which I have , for great accuracy , obtain a copy . I shall direct that the term of the Gracious Speech be print in the Votes and Proceedings . copy be available in the Vote Office . the Gracious Speech be as follow : my Lords and Members of the House of Commons it be mindful of the legacy of service and devotion to this country set by my beloved Mother , the late queen , that I deliver this , the first king ' s Speech in over 70 year . the impact of Covid and the war in Ukraine have create significant long - term challenge for the United Kingdom . that be why my Government ' s priority be to make the difficult but necessary long - term decision to change this country for the well . my Ministers ' focus be on increase economic growth and safeguard the health and security of the british people for generation to come . my government will continue to take action to bring down inflation , to ease the cost of live for family and help business fund new job and investment . my Ministers will support the Bank of England to return inflation to target by take responsible decision on spending and borrowing . these decision will help household finance , reduce public sector debt , and safeguard the financial security of the country . legislation will be introduce to strengthen the United Kingdom ' s energy security , and reduce reliance on volatile international energy market and hostile foreign regime . this Bill will support the future licensing of new oil and gas field , help the country to transition to net zero by 2050 without add undue burden on household . alongside this , my Ministers will seek to attract record level of investment in renewable energy source and reform grid connection , build on the United Kingdom ' s track - record of decarbonise fast than other G7 economy . my Government will invest in Network North to deliver fast and more reliable journey between , and within , the city and town of the North and Midlands , prioritise improve the journey that people make most often . my Ministers will strengthen education for the long term . step will be take to ensure young people have the knowledge and skill to succeed , through the introduction of the Advanced British Standard that will bring technical and academic route into a single qualification . proposal will be implement to reduce the number of young people study poor quality university degree and increase the number undertake high quality apprenticeship . my Ministers will take step to make the economy more competitive , take advantage of freedom afford by the United Kingdom ' s departure from the European Union . a bill will be bring forward to promote trade and investment with economy in the fast grow region in the world . my Ministers will continue to negotiate trade agreement with dynamic economy , deliver job and growth in the United Kingdom . my Ministers will introduce new legal framework to support the safe commercial development of emerge industry , such as self - drive vehicle , introduce new competition rule for digital market , and encourage innovation in technology such as machine learning . legislation will be bring forward to support the creative industry and protect public interest journalism . proposal will be publish to reform welfare and support more people into work . my government will promote the integrity of the Union and strengthen the social fabric of the United Kingdom . work with NHS England , my Government will deliver its plan to cut waiting list and transform the long - term workforce of the National Health Service . this will include deliver on the NHS workforce plan , the first long - term plan to train the doctor and nurse the country need , and minimum service level to prevent strike from undermine patient safety . record level of investment be expand and transform mental health service to ensure more people can access the support they need . my government will introduce legislation to create a smokefree generation by restrict the sale of tobacco so that child currently age fourteen or young can never be sell cigarette , and restrict the sale and marketing of e - cigarette to child . my Ministers will bring forward a bill to reform the housing market by make it cheap and easy for leaseholder to purchase their freehold and tackle the exploitation of million of homeowner through punitive service charge . renter will benefit from strong security of tenure and well value , while landlord will benefit from reform to provide certainty that they can regain their property when need . my government will deliver a long - term plan to regenerate town and put local people in control of their future . legislation will be bring forward to safeguard the future of football club for the benefit of community and fan . a bill will be introduce to deal with the scourge of unlicensed pedicab in London . my Government be commit to tackle antisemitism and ensure that the Holocaust be never forget . a bill will progress the construction of a national Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . my Government will act to keep community safe from crime , anti - social behaviour , terrorism and illegal migration . a bill will be bring forward to ensure tough sentence for the most serious offender and increase the confidence of victim . my Ministers will introduce legislation to empower police force and the criminal justice system to prevent new or complex crime , such as digital - enable crime and child sexual abuse , include groom . at a time when threat to national security be change rapidly due to new technology , my Ministers will give the security and intelligence service the power they need and will strengthen independent judicial oversight . legislation will be introduce to protect public premise from terrorism in light of the Manchester Arena attack . my government will deliver on the Illegal Migration Act pass early this year and on international agreement , to stop dangerous and illegal Channel crossing and ensure it be the government , not criminal gang , who decide who come to this country . my government will continue to champion security around the world , to invest in our gallant Armed Forces and to support veteran to whom so much be owe . my Ministers will work closely with international partner to support Ukraine , strengthen NATO and address the most pressing security challenge . this include the consequence of the barbaric act of terrorism against the people of Israel , facilitate humanitarian support into Gaza and support the cause of peace and stability in the Middle East . my government will continue to lead action on tackle climate change and biodiversity loss , support develop country with their energy transition , and hold other country to their environmental commitment . the United Kingdom will continue to lead international discussion to ensure that Artificial Intelligence be develop safely . my government will host the Global Investment Summit , the European Political Community , and the Energy Conference , lead global conversation on the United Kingdom ' s most pressing challenge . I look forward to welcome his Excellency the President of the Republic of Korea and Mrs . Kim Keon Hee for a State Visit later this month . my government will , in all respect , seek to make long - term decision in the interest of future generation . my Ministers will address inflation and the driver of low growth over demand for great spending or borrowing . my Ministers will put the security of community and the nation ahead of the right of those who endanger it . by take these long - term decision , my Government will change this country and build a well future . member of the House of Commons Estimates for the public service will be lay before you . my Lords and Members of the House of Commons other measure will be lay before you . I pray that the blessing of Almighty God may rest upon your counsel . debate on the Address [ 1st day ] before I call the mover and seconder , I want to announce the propose subject of debate during the remain day on the Loyal Address : today , debate on the Address ; tomorrow , break down barrier to opportunity ; Thursday , make Britain a clean energy superpower ; Monday , build an NHS fit for the future ; Tuesday , secure high , sustain economic growth in every part of the country ; and Wednesday , reduce violent crime and raise confidence in police and the criminal justice system . I have the pleasure to call Sir Robert Goodwill to move the motion on the Address , and then I will call Siobhan Baillie to second it . I beg to move , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . it be a great honour to move the Humble Address . this be the first time that King Charles have open a session as monarch , and today ' s pomp and ceremony be tinge with sadness as we remember the late queen with affection and with gratitude for 70 year of service to our kingdom and Commonwealth . we look forward to another significant reign as the baton be pass to the next generation . so , Mr Speaker , it have finally come to this . it be official : I be the future once . the seconder of the Humble Address , my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , for whom I be the warm - up act today , be always describe as up and come . I be not really sure what that make I . I recall the last occasion , when my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) be propose the Humble Address and we all think he be on the scrapheap , but less than two month later he be back on the Front Bench attend Cabinet , so you never know — although , the Chief Whip have assure I that there be no danger of that happen to I . Scarborough and Whitby have to be the good constituency in the country . of course , Mr Speaker , it have a head start by be in Yorkshire . they say you should never ask someone if they be from Yorkshire , because if they be , they be bind to mention it in the first five minute ; and if they be not , why humiliate they unnecessarily ? I be pleased to see our colleague in the Scottish National party sport the white rise of Yorkshire today , although I must point out that Yorkshire Day be 1 August , so not for the first time they have get thing wrong . the arrival of the railway create Scarborough as our first seaside destination , and we be still Britain ' s premier coastal resort and second only to London for the number of visitor . in fact , there could be more if some of the £ 36 billion recoup from HS2 could be redeploy on dualle the A64 . culturally , we be the home of Sir Alan Ayckbourn and also the birthplace of the McCain oven chip , as well as Plaxton ' s coach and the electric bus that we be increasingly see on the street in place such as Blackpool — that is , if the Labour council there do not order chinese one . Whitby be famous for Bram Stoker ' s " Dracula " , the Goth weekend and , of course , fish and chip from the famous Magpie restaurant — although I hasten to add that that be not the only place you can get good fish and chip in Whitby . before mass tourism , the area be dot with ironstone , alum and jet mine . fast - forward a century or two and we be the big mining area in the country , with Anglo american invest £ 1 million every single day and employ around 1 , 000 people develop the new polyhalite mine just outside Whitby , with its 23 - mile connect tunnel to Teesside , where Mayor Ben Houchen be deliver so much economic development . the North Yorkshire Moors national park be make famous as the location of Aidensfield in ITV ' s " Heartbeat " police drama , and it be home to many important ground - nest bird on the heather moorland , sustain and manage in traditional way by generation of farmer and keeper . I do not know if you have notice , Mr Speaker , but we seem to be have a lot of by - election at the moment — [ hon . member : " More ! " ] not so fast . it be a by - election in Ryedale in 1986 that whet my appetite for frontline politic . the seat be hold with a thump 16 , 000 conservative majority , but it fall to the Liberals with a 19 % swing , give Elizabeth Shields a 5 , 000 - vote margin . while the rest of the Liberal party be go back to their constituency to prepare for government , I be not go to put up with the situation , so rather naively I put my name forward — along with 200 other — to be the candidate at the subsequent general election . I be not select , but do come second to John Greenway , who , for member who do not remember or who be not even bear — I be look at the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) — win the seat back only 13 month later with a 10 , 000 majority . the moral be : don ' t count your chicken on the basis of by - election result . not put off , my next move be to try to find a safe labour seat to fly the flag for Margaret Thatcher . live in the north - east , there be no shortage of rock - solid Labour citadel — place like Sedgefield , Hartlepool , Bishop Auckland , North West Durham and Redcar — and it be in Redcar that I be select to challenge the wonderful Mo Mowlam . by then , John Major have take over from Mrs Thatcher . when that happen , I remember my child ask I , " daddy , be it really possible that a man can be Prime Minister ? " we have now have three woman conservative premier , assume the most recent one count , of course , and we now have the first Prime Minister who represent a yorkshire seat . be that a big deal ? it certainly be . I must say that my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond ( Yorks ) ( Rishi Sunak ) could not be a well neighbour or well friend to I . Labour be well ahead in the poll in the run - up to the 1992 election , and Mo have a car at the count , with the engine run , ready to take she down to sit in Neil Kinnock ' s Cabinet as Northern Ireland Secretary , but once again the poll be wrong . I stand in North West Leicestershire in the 1997 Blair landslide election , which I will quickly pass over . suffice it to say that both seat in which I stand , Redcar and North West Leicestershire , eventually return Conservative Members . I like to think that the Goodwill effect be a slow burn . after what I will call a five - year sabbatical in the European Parliament , I be select to stand for Scarborough and Whitby , a seat that have be consistently blue since 1918 but have be red in both 1997 and 2001 . even though the exit poll say I would lose , we manage to prevail on 5 May 2005 and I enter the House at last . I put our victory down to one decide factor . on the eve of poll , of all the place that Tony Blair could have choose for his big election rally , he choose Scarborough . maybe the Leader of the opposition could indulge I next time round and come to Scarborough on the eve of the poll to see if he can replicate the Blair effect — or well still , he could have a rally in Sheffield and go the full Kinnock . at the follow election , I be the victim of a fly - poster campaign . all over town , there be A4 photocopy ask , " what be the difference between Robert Goodwill and a supermarket trolley ? " the local newspaper pick up on this and conclude that a supermarket trolley have a mind of its own . I must admit that I have never vote against the Tory Whip , so that might explain it . however , have be here a while , I can now reveal the real answer to the question . the difference between an MP and a supermarket trolley be that there be a physical limit to the amount of food and drink that you can get into a supermarket trolley . I certainly welcome the Bills that have be announce . in particular , I would like to see convict criminal attend their sentencing . life for some of the most severe crime must mean life . Fairness be part of what it mean to be british , and we must ensure that the dynamic between freeholder and leaseholder be intrinsically fair , in the same way as we should show equal respect for landlord and tenant when they be do the right thing . I be pleased to see that the ban on live animal export for slaughter will happen , now we be outside the European Union and have the freedom to do that . those who be successful in the ballot for private member ' Bills will not be short of other suggestion , both from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and from animal welfare organisation , to carry forward some important measure in that area , which I know be important to the Government . the Bill to tackle unlicensed and uninsured pedicab , which can rip off unsuspecting tourist , be not before time . today ' s focus be on the legislative agenda , but we can not ignore what be go on outside our border . the butchery we see from Hamas on 7 October be evil beyond anything most of we could even imagine — and , yes , BBC , these thug be terrorist . if those atrocity have be on our soil and against our people , we would have be expect to launch a robust response — Israel have that right , too . indeed , what else do Hamas expect would happen ? the conflict in Ukraine may be off the front page , but we must not waver in our support for the courageous ukrainian people . good government be not so much about how many law we have and how many new law we announce , but about how we respond to change and unexpected event such as the pandemic . Hindsight be a wonderful thing , but the Prime Minister ' s furlough scheme and help for business be the right thing to do . the universal credit system be also robust in the face of unprecedented demand . with small boat crossing of the channel down by more than a fifth year on year , we be make progress in curb the organise criminal gang engage in this dangerous , exploitative trade . furthermore , if we can stand up the Rwanda scheme , it will be a game changer . our help should be for those most in need , not those most able to pay . finally , I come to a true story from the 2019 winter general election ; I hear your stricture about be truthful to the House , Mr Speaker , and this absolutely happen . one of the strong Labour area in my patch be a former council estate call Eastfield — we usually go there early in the campaign to get it out of the way — but this time it be different : people be cross the street to shake my hand . they have vote for Brexit and want to get it do , and they be sick of be ignore . when my wife , Maureen , knock on one door , the lady who answer be effusive in her admiration for Prime Minister Johnson . when I arrive , I ask she why she be so enthusiastic . she say , " Boris be one of we . " when I politely point out that he have be to Eton and Oxford , she reply , " you don ' t understand . he have a row with his wife and the police come round . that ' s what happen on this street all the time . " [ Laughter . ] I commend the Gracious Speech to the House . it be an honour to second the Loyal Address and I be proud that the Stroud constituency be play its part in history , give that this be the first state opening by his Majesty the King . the late Queen be an inspiration for everyone across this great nation . for member of this House , she remind we that , despite the melodrama of politic , we be all here to serve the public . the King be already follow in his mother ' s footstep and make we all proud , although when I tell my non - political family that I be go to be talk about the King ' s Speech , the response I get be , " oh , great , that ' s a really good film . " [ Laughter . ] talk about hard act to follow , my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) have I do a fair few " lol " ; I know exactly the area he be talk about . he have definitely land that promotion with that speech , in his final furlong . we have many connection , which I will touch on today , but Scarborough Athletic FC will play Stroud ' s Forest Green Rovers in the FA cup next week , so we have another rumble to come . I know my right hon . friend will be miss when he get his pipe and slipper out to retire next year , but his lovely new grandchild will keep he very busy . I go to school in my right hon . friend ' s constituency . if I could tell the young I in Scarborough , a young fashionista wear Spice Girl platform , Adidas trackie bottom and a second - hand Umbro jumper — it be a very strong look , although I be grateful that there be no camera phone then — that I would have the privilege of represent the beautiful constituency of Stroud , speak ahead of the Prime Minister , after be in the same room as the King and the Queen , I think young I would have think I have lose the plot . what do the conservative party do for a free school meal kid , who leave home at 15 and do not go to university ? it give she a seat at the most famous palace in the world , lead by the son of a pharmacist , who be also lead the most diverse Cabinet we have ever know . the public service bit of this job motivate I , but that be not what hit the headline . I be often ask , " how do you survive with everybody backstabbe , do their own thing and out to get each other ? " I just smile and say , " I don ' t hang around with the Labour party . " [ interruption . ] I love you all really . to be honest , the parliamentary Labour party have absolutely nothing on the Stroud Labour party , whose member have all resign or fall out with each other . what I actually say be that to survive in this place you have to find some friend , and then fully expect they to push you into the Thames in the run - up to a reshuffle . we also get new friend for very short period of time , come Select Committee election . I sort of miss the daily message from the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . his text message be less famous than his scary handwritten note about the economy , but they be still persistent . back to navigate a workplace that be mad as a box of frog . early on , I come up with " Operation Green Benches " , whereby I shun history book and Hansard and research parliamentary sketch instead , because I love they . Quentin Letts once write that the area of the Government Benches where I be now sit be the " naughty corner " , so that sort out where I would sit . it sound fun and he be right . I then realise that identify the loud colleague to sit with , and effectively hide behind , could be crucial to avoid the wrath of the Speaker . my right hon . friend the Member for Elmet and Rothwell ( Alec Shelbrooke ) seem to fit that bill . he be describe as be " expansively waistcoate " and have " lung like bagpipe " — perfect . he be not in his place . he be watch at home on the tellybox , but no doubt he be wear a waistcoat . my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) be often depict as noisy and boisterous . those two appear to come free with " bagpipe lung " , in a creative BOGOF - style deal that probably should be ban , but this strategy have serve I well and give I a slightly dysfunctional , but always hilarious and caring Chamber family whom I love dearly . the other five Gloucestershire mp be also guide light , not least my right hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Mr Harper ) , who teach I that consistent rebelling do not hinder one ' s career . it ' s okay , Chief Whip , I ' m not go to follow that lead . my kid come to work with I , so they support I in their own chaotic way . Gigi , aged 3 , dress as a witch on Hallowe ' en . she merrily skip up the step of one house , turn to I and say loudly , " Mummy , this be just like canvass . " then the door open and she go , " trick or treat ! " and I say , " I blame those CCHQ canvass script " — an absolute disaster . a myriad of female colleague naturally support each other , on both side of the House . I especially congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Brecon and Radnorshire ( Fay Jones ) on her wedding at the weekend . she look absolutely radiant and I wish she and her husband a long , happy life together . I be chuff to be the first MP from Stroud to be ask to second the Loyal Address . Stroud , with its valley and vale , be gorgeous , so please visit . we have the quirky bit of the Cotswolds with a creative , innovative and industrial spirit throughout . People rightly expect a lot of their public servant in our neck of the wood , so I mainly sit in the House of Commons Library , as other know , deal with endless amount of casework and correspondence . I be have some success : I be steadily chip away at 20 - year - old problem such as Tricorn House and accessibility at Stroud station and at new challenge , include Rush skatepark and Stroud Maternity ' s postnatal bed . People take the mick out of I sit in the Library , but I really like it . it be never dull . my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , another denizen of the Library , excitedly texte I one day , say , " come see my tortoise . " I have hear about these public schoolboy and how they like to give nickname to thing , so it be not without fear and trepidation that I come into his bit of the Library to see his tortoise . happily , Mr Speaker , it be actually your tortoise that I get to see ; he be eat merrily on the Terrace . may I also say that your decision to add giant cat and other creature to this already odd place be very welcome ? I listen carefully to what his Majesty the King have to say early . it be customary to be jolly in second a speech , but we all know that these be difficult time . to hear that the Government ' s focus be on security challenge , both domestic and international , be extremely important . thereafter , I can get behind all action to increase economic growth and help our constituent with day - to - day pressure or injustice . by way of an example , Stroud constituent should not be rip off by rogue property management company . I commend the campaign work of local people and my hon . friend the Members for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) and for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) to get leasehold reform and protection for homeowner on the agenda . the King ' s comment about put people in control of their future and the focus on town regeneration give I hope for high street , business and fantastic area such as Berkeley and Stroud town . with the Prime Minister grip artificial intelligence and new technology , we be poised and ready to fly with innovation in renewable , hydrogen internal combustion engine , nuclear and many other science , technology , engineering and math field . the Government ' s NHS long - term workforce plan must get lift - off if we be to help Stroud Maternity midwive . I have long campaign for more apprentice as well , so let we get rid of all barrier in further education . my excellent friend and constituency neighbour , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Alex Chalk ) , will clearly have a lot to do as Secretary of State for Justice , but I still hope that he will look closely at family law reform to keep case involve child out of the court system . although I be not expect new childcare announcement , I urge the whole government to get behind the Chancellor ' s investment in family by urgently boost the early year workforce . his Majesty the King say that the Government will lead on action to tackle biodiversity loss . with COP28 approach , the Prime Minister should get familiar with WWT Slimbridge ' s flamingo on our patch . I will take all the help that I can get to have a dedicated domestic wetland team and strategy in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . if he be not persuade , flamingo be absolutely marvellous for that wonderful Instagram account of his . the King be the wwt president , and wetland can genuinely help we to reach our net zero target . I say early that public service be a privilege and I genuinely mean it . it give we the chance to change thing for everyday family and champion those who deserve and need our support . it also allow the hard work Prime Minister that I have know — and I have know quite a few recently ; even my baby have meet three Prime Ministers by the time she be three month old — to show the country , week in , week out , how we can bring long - term change against global headwind , and I second this Loyal Address . I call the Leader of the Opposition . before I turn to the Humble Address , I be sure the whole House will join I in pay tribute to his Majesty the King on the occasion of his first Gracious Speech as our sovereign . of course , he give the speech last year , and have for some time enjoy the good view in the House on how it should be do . none the less , this be a new chapter for he and our country , so we pay tribute to he . I also congratulate both the mover and seconder of the Humble Address for their fantastic speech . the right hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) once again show we his deep love for his constituency and deliver a truly great speech . he have be a good servant and be well respect across the House , but he be now want again on his farm . I can inform the House that he be also one of this country ' s lead steam engine enthusiast and the proud owner of a Fowler k5 ploughing engine , which be not a tractor , but be none the less a beautiful machine that on a good day , when he really step on it , can still give the TransPennine Express a run for its money . however , I warn he to be careful : there be some weird and wonderful detail in all those Network North announcement , and the Prime Minister might commandeer his Fowler — for illustrative purpose only , of course . it be great to hear the hon . member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) make a powerful speech to this House . it be only right that the Prime Minister select someone with good sense to second the Humble Address , and so of course he have to turn to a working - class lawyer with a connection to Camden . I can say from personal knowledge , and from many people in Camden , that as a Camden councillor she be respect across party , as she be here . a year ago , she rightly point out that " there be many way to boost domestic energy security use nuclear , solar , marine energy … and onshore wind " — an argument that show exactly why she have a bright future within her party . it be a shame that , instead of choose she to second the Humble Address , the Prime Minister do not ask she to write the energy section of the King ' s Speech . we be lucky enough not to have lose any member of this House since the last Address , but , as we approach the end of this cycle , it be only right that we once again remember those whom we all still miss so much , who leave we early in this Parliament . on the Opposition Benches we lose our beloved friend Jack Dromey , a champion of work people for the age . on the government Benches we lose Dame Cheryl Gillan , James Brokenshire and of course Sir David Amess , who be take from we in the vilest and cruell of circumstance . we on the Opposition Benches still mourn the loss of Jo Cox , one of our bright light , seven year ago now in similar fashion , so we reach out across the aisle and say of Sir David , as do the plaque put up in the Chamber in recent week , " his light remain . " Mr Speaker , it be also customary to welcome new member to the House — although , give that you be a stickler for parliamentary time limit , that could be difficult . I welcome all 11 new member to the first of these debate : one for the Conservative party , two for the Liberal Democrats and eight for Labour . those be victory that show , without question , that Britain be ready for change ; victory that have reduce the conservative party — now nearly 14 year in power — to the desperate spectacle of claim that it offer change away from itself . today ' s speech show just how ridiculous that posturing be , because what we have before we be a plan for more of the same : more sticking plaster ; more division ; more party first , country second gimmick ; and no repudiation of the utterly discredit idea that economic growth be something that the few hand down to the many . in fact , today we reach something of a new low , because the Conservatives be not even pretend to govern any more . they have give up on any sense of service . they see our country ' s problem as something to be exploit , not solve . in do that , they underestimate the british people , because what Britain want be for they to stop mess around and get on with the job . People want action , not inaction ; solution to real problem , not the imaginary one that haunt the conservative party ' s imagination ; a Government who be commit to the national interest , not desperately try to save their own skin . our school be crumble , waiting list be rise , river and stream be die , infrastructure be be cancel , violent criminal be be release early , the Conservatives ’ mortgage bombshell be blow up the finance of million , growth be set to be the low in the G7 next year , and taxis be high than at any time since the war — the Prime Minister raise they himself 25 time . the Tory recipe for british decline : low growth , high tax , crumble public service , with the Prime Minister serve up more of the same . of course , there be step we can welcome : Jade ' s law , Martyn ' s law and an independent regulator in football . we have say that on smoking and public health , the Prime Minister can count on our vote . we will always serve the national interest . that be why this House have stand unite in our support for Ukraine since the start of Putin ' s aggression , and we must never lose our resolve or focus . the speech mention the terrible event in Israel and Palestine . it be now one month exactly since the senseless murder of Jews by the terrorist of Hamas and the taking of hostage on 7 October . every new day in Gaza bring with it more pain , more suffering , more agony . hostage be still hold ; thousand of civilian be dead , include so many innocent woman and child ; million be struggle for the basic of life — food , water , sanitation , medicine and fuel . we can not and we will not close our eye to their suffering . we need a humanitarian pause now and for the hostage to be release now . Israel have the right and duty to defend herself , but that be not a blank cheque ; it must comply with international law . this House must commit to do whatever it can to keep alive the light of peace , so we welcome the clear commitment in the speech to support the two - state solution . to return once more to the Conservatives ' plan for Britain , the big question be how they think that this be anywhere near good enough . after all the chaos they have unleash — after level up , " no rule be break , " " we ' re all in it together , " and all the other broken promise of the last 13 year — this be the plan that they put to the work people of this country and say , " trust we , we ' ve change . " it ' s laughable . they can not see Britain : that be the only possible conclusion . the wall of this place be too high . but let I assure the House that Britain see they , and Britain see today that they offer no change on public service , no change on the cost of living crisis , and no change to the economic model that have fail to give work people the security and opportunity that they deserve . that be the change that Britain need , and today be a miss opportunity . we need a king ' s Speech that would draw a line under 13 year of Tory decline — a King ' s Speech for national renewal and a serious plan for growth . but instead , we have a party so devoid of leadership that it be happy to follow a Home Secretary who describe homelessness as a " lifestyle choice " and believe that the job of protect we all from extremist — the most basic job of government — be legitimate terrain for her divisive brand of politic . as Director of Public Prosecutions , I work closely with the police and counter - terrorism force . their job be hard enough already without the Home Secretary use it as a platform for her own ambition . I say to the Prime Minister : think very carefully about what she be commit your government to do , and think very carefully about the consequence of put great demand on public servant at the coalface of keep we safe — because without a serious Home Secretary , there can be no serious government , and he can not be a serious Prime Minister . Homelessness be a choice — it be a political choice . constant u - turn on no - fault eviction be political choice . not face up to the blocker of aspiration on the Government Benches be a political choice . and it be not that there aren ' t well choice . on the Opposition Benches , we have a plan to build 1 . 5 million home across the country , with a reform planning regime that will unlock our potential , because you can ' t fix homelessness without increase the supply of housing , you can ' t boost growth unless worker have the home they need , and you can ' t escape the cost of live crisis unless there be more affordable housing . we all know why the Prime Minister find himself in this position , but if he be prepared to stand up to the blocker , and if he show he can radically improve the supply of housing by bring back national housing target , then yes , he can count on Labour vote , because that be what this country need most : a credible plan for growth ; a Britain where growth come from the grassroot and growth serve the grassroot , with high living standard in every community — an ambition that can only be deliver if we roll up our sleeve and get building . at the moment , just to get a tunnel build in this country can require a planning application 30 time long than the complete work of Shakespeare . that be why today we need a planning Bill to strip out the red tape and get Britain building . we also need a bold commitment to train the next generation , with new technical college , apprenticeship levy reform and expert teacher in every classroom , give british business the skill they need . we need a modern industrial strategy on a statutory footing , with a Bill to match — a signal of intent to the world that we be serious about fight for the job of the future . we need an employment Bill . time and again , this Bill have be promise ; time and again , it fail to materialise , when we could be scrap fire and rehire , end zero - hour contract , make work pay with a real living wage and say unambiguously that strong worker ’ right be good for growth . what we get instead be an exercise in economic miserabilism : an admission that his Government have no faith in Britain ' s ability to avert decline . take the oil and gas Bill announce today — a Bill that everyone in the energy sector know be a political gimmick and even the Energy Secretary admit will not take a single penny off anyone ' s bill . I do not know which of his seven bin the Prime Minister chuck her meat tax in , but this one will follow soon . none the less , it be a gimmick that tell a story : a King ' s Speech with no concern for the national interest , wallow in a pessimism that say the hard road to a well future isn ' t for Britain . it have be this way for 13 year now : a failure to seize the opportunity , perhaps even to see the opportunity ; work people hit because the Conservatives do not build the gas storage , they do not invest in clean british energy , and they scrap home insulation . and they be do it all again : move the target back , and pass it on to the next generation , even as cost rise and rise . this be stick - plaster politic — an approach as riven through the foundation of our security as the crumble concrete in our school . the never - end cycle of Tory Britain : party first , country second ; drift , stagnate , decline . we have to turn the page . the Government be wrong about clean energy — it be cheap , it be british and it can give we real security against tyrant like Putin . more importantly , they be wrong about Britain . we can win the race for job of tomorrow ; we can work hand in glove with the private sector and invest in critical infrastructure — the gigafactorie , the new port and the clean british steel that can once again light the fire of renewal in british industrial community . today be the day we could have strike the match for that light , embrace a new sense of mission and tackle the cost of live crisis with a new plan for growth . there be a chance to get Britain build again — take back our street , get the NHS back on its foot , deliver cheap bill with real energy security , and tear down the barrier to opportunity — but for the 14th year in a row , the Government pass it up , sever their relationship with Britain ' s future and give up on the national interest . the speech show with ever great clarity that the only fight leave in the Government be the fight for their own skin — a Government who have give up , drag Britain down with they , ever more steadily towards decline ; a day on which it become crystal clear that the change Britain need be from Tory decline to Labour renewal . I call the Prime Minister . this be the first King ' s Speech in 70 year , and the first of his Majesty ' s reign , which be already define by the same wisdom , grace and compassion that mark a long record of service . may I take this opportunity on behalf of the whole House to express our admiration and gratitude to his Majesty the King ? before we get into the traditional debate , let I first address the situation in Israel and Gaza . all of we in the House care deeply about the suffering of innocent people and the scene we have witness . we abhor the way in which Hamas have use innocent Palestinians as human shield . it be right that the United Kingdom be double our aid funding for palestinian civilian . we have be consistent throughout in our call for a humanitarian pause as soon as possible to get aid in and hostage and foreign national out , but a unilateral and unconditional ceasefire would simply allow Hamas to entrench their position and continue their attack against Israel . only last week , Hamas reiterate their intention , state clearly : " we will repeat the October 7 attack time and again until Israel be annihilate . " face with such a threat , no country could reasonably be expect not to act . last week , I speak with Prime Minister Netanyahu to reiterate the United Kingdom ' s backing for Israel ' s right to defend itself ; it be the first duty of any Government . I also stress the need to allow more aid into Gaza , to take all possible measure to minimise civilian casualty , and to avoid inflame tension in the west bank , where settler violence must stop . I can update the House that now well over 100 british national have be able to leave Gaza , thank to our diplomatic effort to reopen the Rafah crossing . the Development Minister will make a full statement to the House tomorrow . let I also reiterate this : we will not stand for the hatred and antisemitism we have see on our street . it sicken I to think that british Jews be look over their shoulder in this country , and that child be go to school cover up their school badge for fear of attack . this government will do whatever it take to keep the jewish community safe , just as we will do whatever it take to keep every community safe . we will fight hatred and extremism in all its form , wherever it be find , today , tomorrow and always . we be the world ' s most successful multi - ethnic , multi - faith democracy , and we will protect our democracy from all threat to it . this King ' s Speech be about what this Government be about — take long - term decision to build a bright future for our country . it build on foundation that be far strong than they be just a year ago : inflation fall and on track to be halve ; an economy now grow fast than France and Germany ; national debt on track to fall ; more support for the NHS this winter ; and we be stop the boat , with crossing this year down by over a fifth , as we ensure that it be this Government , not criminal gang , who decide who come to our country . now that we have strengthen the foundation , this King ' s Speech turn to the future , take long - term decision with a single objective — to change our country for the well : change in our economy with new legislation to improve our energy security , join a huge trade pact with the fast - grow region in the world and prepare to seize the opportunity of a new technological age ; change in our society with new protection for leaseholder and renter , a Bill to safeguard the future of football club and fan , and the historic legislation that will finally create the first smoke - free generation ; and change to keep our nation secure and our community safe with tough sentence for criminal , more power for the police and security service , and tough new action to clamp down on antisocial behaviour . what will all this mean for the british people ? More job , more investment and high growth ; more police on the street with strong power to keep we safe ; place people be proud to call home ; and a country strong at home , confident abroad and with a well future ahead for all our people . that be the change that this King ' s Speech and this Government will deliver . the Loyal Address be brilliantly propose by my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) . I will always be grateful to he , because when I be first select as the conservative candidate for Richmond ( Yorks ) , my right hon . friend take a call from a prominent farmer in my local community who have express some consternation about the revelation that I do not eat beef . quick as a flash , my right hon . friend reply , " Don ' t worry , he ' s the perfect candidate — there ' ll be more for I and thee ! " as a proud Yorkshireman , my right hon . friend have a reputation for be very careful with money . just the other day , he go shop for a new pair of shoe , and when the shop assistant try to throw away the old pair , he say , " hang on a second , I want to keep those lace — there ' s still life in they yet ! " I have often regard myself as a trainee Yorkshireman , and it turn that out that , with he , I be also a trainee fiscal conservative . that be why I ask my right hon . friend to apply his same zeal for saving to efficiency that we could make across Whitehall . he come back with a great list : yorkshire teabag be perfectly fine for another three or four go , the DEFRA thermostat be set far too high at 17 ° and seven bin be simply far too many . my right hon . friend be probably the only member of this House who be the proud owner of his own graveyard . apparently , he even do some of the dig himself . no wonder he be such a staunch supporter of the Government ' s plan to protect renter : he fully support the right of his tenant to be leave undisturbed over the very long long - term . in his maiden speech , my right hon . friend proudly boast that Whitby in his constituency be " vote no . 1 weekend holiday destination by the reader of Saga Magazine " . — [ Official Report , 6 June 2005 ; Vol . 434 , c . 1052 . ] I be delighted , as my right hon . friend retire and lift his gaze from his own copy of Saga , that he already find himself in the home of blue sky , blue water and blue rinse . Whitby be , as he remind we , where Dracula make landfall — that shadowy , pale , haunt figure age beyond his year . and that be what two decade in this House can do for you ! as a Government Whip , a Minister in four Departments , and a dedicated constituency MP , my right hon . friend have have an extraordinary career . among his many achievement , I would particularly highlight his introduction of the first ever roadside drug test . before that we have no way of clamp down on dangerous drug driving , and that landmark policy have save untold number of life . it be a legacy he should be proud of , and a reminder of the good that politic can do . my right hon . friend be a great parliamentarian , and I be proud to call he a friend . his speech be in the fine tradition of this House , and his wit , integrity and sound good sense will be much miss on all side . continue the North Yorkshire theme , the Loyal Address be brilliantly second by someone who be also bear and breed in God ' s own county , my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) . I be sure the whole House will join I in pay tribute to our fantastic NHS , and send our very good wish to her daughter Tilly . some may think of my hon . friend as a shy , retire and studious type . after all , as she say today , she often prefer to be in the Library . but we be discover another side to my hon . friend ; we have hear about her time in the naughty corner , and about the Spice Girl platform . I can also reveal today that back in the 1990 she win the prestigious , fiercely contest crown of " yorkshire rock ' n roll dancing queen " . in a rich and varied career , my hon . friend be also a highly regarded yoga teacher . so when she read in the Times that the shadow Cabinet be be encourage to take up yoga in the office , she be wait for the phone call . it turn out that no Conservative , not even one as supremely talented as my hon . friend , can teach the Labour party anything when it come to constantly change from one contorted position to another . my hon . Friend also mention take advice and inspiration from a certain parliamentary sketch writer . if she be hope that one day he might make she the target of his acerbic wit , I would just say this : be careful what you wish for . I have be call many thing in my time , but I be not sure that I will ever forget be brand " the titch in vacuum - pack underpant " . on a serious note , my hon . friend have already make a huge impact in her short time in this place , and nowhere more than in her fantastic campaign to improve childcare provision , inspire my right hon . friend the Chancellor to announce 30 hour of free childcare a week for under - four in England in the March Budget . that landmark policy will make an enormous difference to million of family up and down the country , and my hon . friend should be incredibly proud of her part in make that happen . my hon . friend overcome great odd to reach her place today . grow up on free school meal , she leave home as a teenager and work her way up as a family lawyer , without attend university , before become the first female MP of Stroud in 2019 . sometimes people ask I what be a Conservative be all about , and I can think of no great example than that . my hon . friend be a remarkable person , a dedicated MP , and someone with a huge future ahead . her speech be in the fine tradition of this House . let I also thank the Leader of the Opposition for his contribution to this debate , and indeed his first u - turn of it . as a former republican , he use to think that this country should not even have a King ' s Speech , but at least that be one u - turn the whole country will welcome . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be prone to change his position , but in fairness his speech do strike a few consistent note : high inflation , more strike , more immigration and high borrowing . the Labour party ' s plan to unnecessarily borrow £ 28 billion more every year and give in to inflation - bust pay demand from its union paymaster be dangerous , inflationary , and the british people would pay the price in high interest rate and high taxis . in truth , Labour will borrow anything — people ' s money or people ' s idea — and it now turn out that his copy - and - paste shadow Chancellor be happy to borrow other people ' s work , too , but she be not the only member on the Opposition Benches to get unstuck by a book . early this year , the Leader of the opposition have to abandon write his own book and return the deposit . it be suppose to be his vision for Britain , but his publisher discover what the british people already know : he simply do not have one . while he stand for the same old idea , we be focus on the long - term decision that will provide a well and bright future for everyone . that be what this King ' s Speech will deliver . that change start with change our economy . we have already deliver the large fall in inflation since the 1980 , a fast recovery from the pandemic than Germany , France and Japan , and ten of billion of pound of new investment from around the world . we believe that the role of Government be to create the condition for the private sector to thrive . that be where new growth and new job come from . it be why we have give business a £ 27 billion tax cut on investment , launch 12 freeport around the UK to create job and investment , and introduce legislation in this King ' s Speech so that we can confirm our membership of the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , a huge trading pact with the fast grow region in the world . [ interruption . ] I hear from those on the Opposition Benches that it will make no difference . we can only do that because of our new freedom outside the European Union — freedom that the Leader of the Opposition want to abandon , instead lock the United Kingdom into a new european deal that would tie we into EU rule and regulation that we would have no say over and open our border to 100 , 000 additional EU migrant every single year . as well as fail to secure our border , the opposition would also fail to secure our energy supply . we know that economic growth require energy security . we have already invest record amount in renewable such as offshore wind . we back Sizewell C , the first new nuclear in decade . the King ' s Speech introduce new legislation for North sea oil and gas , support hundred of thousand of british job . we can compare and contrast that with the opposition ' s energy policy — will the Prime Minister give way ? [ interruption . ] order . member have the right to intervene . if the Prime Minister wish to give way , that be up to the Prime Minister . if he wish not to do so , that be also fine . we can compare and contrast — will the Prime Minister give way ? [ interruption . ] order . the Prime Minister be not give way . we can compare and contrast the propose new legislation with the Opposition ' s energy policy , and there be one word for it : naive . that be not my word , but that of their own union paymaster . I will happily give way . I be very grateful to the Prime Minister . bear in mind that a significant proportion of people who sleep rough be Army veteran and people with acquire brain injury , do the Prime Minister agree with the Home Secretary when she say that homelessness — sleep rough — be " a lifestyle choice " ? if he do not , will he sack she ? I be not sure about the link between that and energy security , but I can tell the hon . Gentleman that thank to the effort of my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , veteran ' homelessness be at record low level in this country . rough sleeping overall be down by around a third since the peak , thank to the action of this Government and in particular the landmark Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 — pass by this Government — which have help relieve or prevent more than 640 , 000 people from become homelessness . [ Official Report , 13 November 2023 , Vol . 740 , c . 6mc . ] return to energy security , the Opposition want to ban all new oil and gas licence , risk our become even more dependent on Putin ' s Russia for our crucial supply of energy . what be even more absurd about their policy be this : the Leader of the opposition be not against all oil and gas ; he be just against british oil and gas . unlike the Opposition , who want to pursue net zero with an ideological zeal — go even fast and far no matter what the cost or the disruption — we on the conservative Benches be cut the cost of net zero for work people , save british family £ 5 , 000 , £ 10 , 000 or £ 15 , 000 , and that be the choice . I be grateful to the Prime Minister for give way . I want to ask he when he will start be straight with the british public . he pretend that new oil and gas licence will somehow guarantee our energy security , when he know that that oil and gas be sell on international market to the high bidder . he pretend that it will get people ' s bill down , yet his own Secretary of State for Energy have say that it will not . when will he stop govern by gimmick , and when will he start actually roll out the home insulation programme that will get people ' s bill down ? the hon . Lady talk about be straight . it be the Conservative party and I who be straight with the british people about the cost of get to net zero — something that she and the Labour party would do well to follow . because we have be honest and transparent and have cut those cost , we will save british family £ 5 , 000 , £ 10 , 000 or £ 15 , 000 — indicate dissent . order . the Prime Minister give way to the hon . Lady . she should at least do he the courtesy of hear the answer . that be the simple choice : a Government on the side of hard - work people or an Opposition and the hon . Lady on the side of the eco - zealot . if we want truly to change our country , we need a strong society . that be why this King ' s Speech introduce a landmark Bill to create the first smoke - free generation . it will prevent death , improve people ' s life and free the NHS to support other . it be the most significant public health intervention by any Government for generation — historic change from a historic king ' s Speech . but that be not all that the Government be do for the NHS . we have invest record sum , create 50 million more primary private care appointment and bring more bed and more ambulance . through the NHS ' s first ever long - term workforce plan , we will recruit more doctor , nurse and dentist than ever before . that be what the NHS need , not the damaging strike action that Labour refuse to condemn , even though it be add ten of thousand of people to waiting list every single day . the opposition also oppose our plan to provide a minimum safety level during the strike . do they and the Leader of the opposition think that vulnerable patient do not deserve life - save healthcare , or be they just too weak to stand up to the union ? either way , the conclusion be clear : you simply can not trust Labour with the NHS . let I turn to the most important part of a strong society : education . of all that we have achieve since 2010 , this be what I be most proud of . under the Labour party , only two third of school be rate " good " or " outstanding " ; now it be about 90 % . they take we down the international league table ; we be now soar up they . they devalue apprenticeship ; we be invest in they . they back rip - off degree , and we be end they . we be also introduce the new advanced british standard , so that everyone will study math and English to 18 , learn a broad range of subject , with more hour in the classroom , and we will finally break down the barrier between academic and technical education . More teacher , high standard and more apprenticeship : on the Government side of the House , a strong society be an opportunity society , and this Conservative Government be deliver . we can only build that strong society with strong community , and that be what this King ' s Speech do . we be reform the housing market to empower leaseholder and to give renter more security ; establish a new independent football regulator to give fan a great voice in their club ; and deliver our promise to level up with record investment in local area . we be build a million more home , all the while protect the green belt — unlike the charter for sprawl that we see from the Labour party . that bring I to transport . every single penny that would have be spend on High Speed 2 — a repeatedly delay , expensive project that fail to meet people ' s real need — be now be invest in the north , in the midland and right across the country , with £ 36 billion of investment in project that people really need and actually want . Network North be without question the most ambitious scheme for northern transport that any Government have develop , ever . yet first the Leader of the Opposition be against it , then he be for it , and now he be not really sure . one thing be for sure : you simply can not trust a word he say . none of those important change will mean anything if people do not feel safe in their community . the fact be clear : it be this Government that be on the side of law and order . this King ' s Speech introduce legislation to well support victim , as well as new measure to combat the scourge of antisocial behaviour , all build on a proud record of tackle crime — 20 , 000 more police officer on the street , more police on the street than ever before . [ interruption . ] we have hear a lot about 13 year , but since 2010 : crime halve ; violent crime halve ; burglary also halve ; antisocial behaviour down by 70 % ; tough sentence for rapist and sex offender , which be something the Labour party vote against ; and , for the bad offender , life finally mean life — all while the Leader of the Opposition and those on the Opposition Front Bench campaign to stop the deportation of dangerous foreign criminal . we be just day away from Remembrance Sunday , so let I close by pay tribute to our armed force . at this moment , over 7 , 000 serviceman and woman be deploy overseas . from the frozen waste of the High North to the street of Kosovo , they be the good of we . we owe to all our veteran a lifelong debt of gratitude . I be proud of our work , lead in Cabinet by my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View , to make this the good country in the world to be a veteran . that be what you get with this Government . we be on the side of Britain ' s armed force . we be invest record amount in defence , we be an unwavering ally to the ukrainian people and we be proud to be one of the large contributor to NATO . but in contrast , Mr Speaker , what do you get with the opposition ? they try to install — [ interruption . ] they never like be remind about it , but Labour Members try to install as Prime Minister a man who want to abolish the armed force , withdraw from NATO and back the UK ' s enemy over its ally . labour can not be trust with our nation ' s security . this King ' s Speech build on the strong foundation of an economy well on its way to recovery . it reject big Government and instead back people and business to thrive . it strengthen society , with historic measure to support the nation ' s health and education . it secure our street and border , with tough sentence for criminal and power for police . above all , this King ' s Speech deliver change — change in our economy , change in our society , change in our community . it take long - term decision for a bright future , and I commend it to the House . I call the leader of the SNP . [ interruption . ] member should please leave quietly . thank you , Mr Speaker ; be it something I say ? like snaw aff a dyke . I wish to begin , as be customary , by pass on my thank to King Charles and the Queen for their most gracious Speech today . I be sure it be a momentous occasion for they both . I have be goad a wee bit about my flower , but notwithstanding that , I intend to start by offer some consensus across the Chamber , because I believe that be incredibly important in these time . first , in relation to Ukraine , it be fast approach the two - year anniversary of Vladimir Putin ' s decision to enter Ukraine in an extremely forceful manner — to start a war , to kill civilian and to attack Ukraine ' s democracy , build upon the step that he have take in 2014 by invade and annex Crimea . it have be say in the public domain that the resolve of the west be perhaps shake in the face of the fact that the conflict continue ; but I think we be all unite across this Chamber , right across party , in our steadfast commitment to the ukrainian people in their fight to protect their democracy against that most abhorrent of tyrant . we say that because these be our value . it be what we believe in . we believe in peace , we believe in protect civilian and we believe in democracy . of course , that view extend beyond just Ukraine ; it extend to the situation in Israel and Gaza , too . I know I be at risk of repeat myself here — as indeed many of we do in this Chamber from time to time — but it be important to reiterate that all of we in this Chamber be unite in our unequivocal condemnation of what Hamas do exactly a month ago . there can never be a justification for the senseless killing of man , woman and child in the way that that terrorist organisation do . what we have see off the back of that on our street be equally — not perhaps equally — concern . we all have grave concern about the rise of antisemitism and the fear so many people have walk the street of these isle . I want to send my heartfelt support to all those in the jewish community and to make it very clear — if , indeed , it ever need to be clear — that we all oppose antisemitism , no ifs and no but . finally on that point , I think what we all so urgently want to see be diplomacy in action to release the hostage who be still under Hamas ' s control . there can be , as I say in relation to other matter , no justification for that and we all want to see those people return to their family as quickly as possible . as I have say previously , I wish the Prime Minister well in that diplomatic pursuit . the conflict in Israel and Gaza can not be forget without mention what we be see in Gaza itself . thousand upon thousand of people have be kill . People do not have access to food . they do not have access to clean water . they do not have access to fuel . they can not turn on the light . they do not have access to medicine . in many instance , the hospital they go to no long exist , the school they once go to no long exist , the university they once go to no long exist . what we be see — this be perhaps where the agreement across the Floor go away — be collective punishment . what we so badly need to see be a humanitarian ceasefire . no , not a humanitarian pause , which fill people ' s belly , only for they to be blow up in the day to follow . what we believe in unequivocally be a humanitarian ceasefire . I sincerely hope that member across the Chamber will join we in come to that position in the not too distant future , because those be our value . we believe in peace and we believe in the protection of civilian . to the King ' s Speech itself , I be listen very closely , like other be , and I hear the term " economic growth " . that intrigue I , because we all know that Britain be break and Brexit break it , and we so obviously need economic growth . for those of we on the SNP Benches there be an obvious solution on that front . there be perhaps three or four thing that we could and should do . they may not be popular with member — certainly not with those on the Government Benches , or indeed with some in the Official Opposition — but they be necessary . all of we , I think , would agree that to have economic growth we need the tax base to expand . the easy way to do that be to actually increase work age migration to these isle . beyond migration , the easy way be to ensure that the business we all want to thrive be able to export directly to the big market possible . in our case , there be one sit just across the channel : the EU single market . we should be more robust and confident about say that we need not only more migration to these isle but access to the EU single market . the argument the Prime Minister put forward be that the trade deal reach with our friend in Asia be the start of something well . well , I have a wee look , and that trade deal be worth 0 . 08 % of GDP . the Government would need 50 — 50 — of those trade deal just to match the 4 % hit cause by leave the European Union . beyond migration and access to the single market , another way to guarantee economic growth be to enshrine the right of worker into law through the like of an employment Bill . it be a damned disgrace that since 2017 this Government have be promise an employment Bill and have still not deliver . another strand to achieve economic growth , if colleague be so willing , would be to double down on investment in net zero — to do as the Americans be do , and to follow the lead of Joe Biden with the Inflation Reduction Act . it make sense . it make sense to invest in the technology of tomorrow , so that we be not leave behind and can compete for the decade to come . net zero be not a hindrance ; it be a growth opportunity . I be pleased that in the speech we hear today we be give an indication that the grid be to be upgrade — that be to be welcome , long overdue as it be — but what we do not have be any insight into to whether there will be a financial mechanism to deliver pump storage hydropower in Scotland , in Cruachan or Coire Glas . there be no indication that there would be further or new financial mechanism to support tidal power in Scotland , which be world - lead . there be no indication that there would be financial mechanism to deliver green hydrogen at scale , not just for people in these isle but throughout the european continent . there be no indication whatsoever that this Government be go to fix the failure of the offshore wind auction round , which deliver not a single bid this year : a shameful indictment , and damaging , oh so damaging , to Scotland ' s burgeon renewable sector . for folk sit at home , none of this be tangible , none of it be real , because people live in Scotland , an energy - rich nation , be nevertheless live in fuel poverty . we already produce six time more gas than we consume , yet people can not afford to turn on their heating . in 2022 we produce enough energy , enough electricity , to power all the home in Scotland for three and a half year , yet people can not afford to keep the light on . there be two thing that the Government could have do to support those people . first , they could have finally separate the cost of gas from the cost of electricity to protect consumer immediately . secondly , they could and should have reinstate the £ 400 energy bill rebate , because we know that people be go to be bad off this year than last . those be the fact . they may not be popular in this place , but we will continue to champion they , because they be our value . the challenge that people face , however , extend beyond just their energy bill ; they involve their mortgage bill as well . why be there no action in relation to mortgage relief ? why be there no action in relation to a price cap on some staple food in the supermarket ? it be suggest by a member of the Government that that would be communism . someone should have tell Emmanuel Macron , because the French have do it : they have manage to protect their citizen . why be it good enough for they , but not good enough for we ? when we look at the cost of live crisis in its entirety , we see that ultimately it exist because of decision make in this place . People can not afford to pay their energy bill because of decade of incompetence on energy policy in this place . People can not afford to pay their mortgage bill because the Tories crash the economy . People can not afford to pay their food bill because Brexit push up the price — and that be deliver by politician in this place . we have have enough of it . the hon . Gentleman speak at length about energy , and never once mention oil . he represent Aberdeen North . I wonder whether , when the Government ' s Bill on oil and gas licence come to this Chamber , he will stand up for his constituent and vote with the Government , or support the position of the Scottish National party , which be to turn its back on oil and gas worker . the hon . member for Moray be always one for detail , but I represent Aberdeen South , not Aberdeen North . it be just seven day since the Government announce 27 licence for offshore oil and gas , and now they have come forward with a proposal to do so on an annual basis . [ interruption . ] I hear the hon . Gentleman chuntering from a sedentary position like a wee dafty . if he choose to listen , I will get to my point . what he know I believe be that there must be an evidence - base approach to oil and gas extraction — an evidence - base approach which be anathema to this Government . we need to be consider our energy security and our commitment to net zero , to job and opportunity and , of course , to our investment in renewable . what I would like to see the Government do — I be sure that the hon . Gentleman would agree with I in this regard — be to ensure that in regard to the pre - exist licence for the like of offshore wind , where the Government have fail , we see improvement to ensure that this actually happen . when the people of Scotland see the cost of living challenge , they know that they emanate from the decision take in this place and their mind be very much refocus on the fact that where power be devolve , power be retain . what we so badly need to see be the power over our economy , energy policy and employment law transfer from this place to Holyrood , and here be why . when we look at the record of Holyrood in comparison to this place , the difference could not be more stark . if you be a young person in Scotland , you will be bear into a baby box ; if you go to nursery , you will receive 1 , 140 hour of care ; if you go to primary school , you will get free school meal ; if you go to secondary school and want to go into high education , that will be pay for you ; and if you enter the workplace in Scotland and become a nurse , you will be pay more than you would be pay here . the majority of Scots pay less tax than those in England . they pay less council tax than those live in England , and they will be able to get crisp , clean water include as part of that bill . of course , if you want to be — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Moray be very keen . would he like to rise to his foot ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way again . he have speak a lot about economic growth . do he agree with several SNP Back Benchers that there should be no place in the SNP Scottish Government for the Greens because they be anti - economic growth ? I believe that I be talk about nationalise water in Scotland , and it be not just water that be nationalise in Scotland ; our railway be nationalise as well . if you want to open a business in Scotland , you will have access to the small business bonus , and as you get old you will be able to live in comfort , know that you will have access to free personal care . all those thing come about because those be our value . they be tangible and real , and what the Scottish Parliament have do be deliver they . what it be go to deliver next be the council tax freeze — a council tax freeze that come in the face of some labour councillor in Scotland advocate for a 32 % rise in council tax . only the SNP , use the power that we have , be protect the scottish people during the cost of living crisis , in stark contrast to the fail establishment in front of we here . but of course , it be not all bad news . we do have one glimmer of hope : the fact that this be not just the Prime Minister ' s first King ' s Speech ; it be the Prime Minister ' s last King ' s Speech . I call the Father of the House . have hear the parliamentary leader for the Scottish National party , the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , the question in my mind be whether he anticipate the result of the next general election be well or bad than 2017 , when his party get 37 % of the vote in Scotland . my guess be that it will be bad . my constituent would like to have Barnett formula fund for local government for all the kind of thing he be speak about . they would welcome have the extra money , and perhaps as we get the economy to grow , we will get that extra money and service that will go on improve . one point that the hon . Gentleman could have make would have be to welcome the leasehold reform for England , which Scotland have have for some time . if he have speak about that , he would have have a welcome from across the House for say that we be catch up by end the unfairness , the uncertainty and the life of misery that too many residential leaseholder have have for too long . I be glad that the Government be now move forward on that , and I pay tribute to Gavin Barwell — now Lord Barwell — who be the first Housing Minister to recognise that there be a problem . I be glad that the Secretary of State for Levelling up and his colleague be now take this forward . if the Bill , when it come forward , give we three quarter of what we want , the Prime Minister can rely on colleague on both side of the House and in both Chambers to make improvement so that we get all that be need . freeholder , residential leaseholder and tenant ought to be able to have the same kind of protection , and I be glad that the Government be bring forward those improvement . overhang our debate be the misery and terror both from the attack on Israel and the Israelis , and from the condition of people in Gaza . we need to keep in mind that until Hamas release hostage , until it can honestly say that it will not repeat that kind of attack , and until it recognise the state of Israel , it will be a continue problem . we can not close our eye and say that an instant , lasting ceasefire will solve all the problem . although many people have criticise the Leader of the Opposition , I think that what he and the shadow Foreign Secretary have say be worth read . we have to have an end to the violence . we have often talk about how the aggressive settlement have destroy people ' s life in the west bank and about the condition of people in Gaza , but we have to recognise that the big reality be that what happen on 7 October be another pogrom , which prompt one of my constituent to say , " there be only 16 million Jews around the world . why do they keep pick on we ? " in this country we have to protect Muslims and Jews against hatred , and we need to make sure that we do not have one - sided demonstration . everyone need protection . return to the King ' s Speech , I be grateful for the opportunity to raise the holocaust memorial , which the Prime Minister mention . the original proposal be that the holocaust memorial would be up within two year — by the end of 2017 . eight year on from 2015 , and there be no prospect of it possibly be open in the next five year . the holocaust memorial gallery have since be develop at the Imperial War Museum , and I propose that those in charge of the project should get together with Baroness Deech , I and Anita Lasker - Wallfisch , who play in the Auschwitz woman ' s orchestra and survive Bergen - Belsen , to have a private — not secret — meet to discuss how we can have a memorial that meet the task without take over so much of Victoria Tower Gardens , while separate the learn centre . have a double basement in the middle of a small park south of the House of Lords be not appropriate . there be thing outside the legislative programme that overhang this House . one be the Privileges Committee report on interference in its consideration of a complaint . I believe the House have to take up the challenge outline in the report , which be available from the Vote Office , and make sure that , when standard be challenge , those who have to consider such case can do so without interference . I have see who have be in the press recently and , of the 12 example of interference , four involve one former Cabinet Minister . we ought to make sure that , in future , people do not interfere with Privileges Committee investigation . I invite the new Chair of the Standards Committee , the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , to reopen the propose change to all - party parliamentary group . for the country group , we should find a way to have an umbrella under which the UK branch of the Inter - Parliamentary Union and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association provide admin support , so that we do not have all the kerfuffle of an annual general meeting with eight people present , sometimes supervise by other . let the group come under that umbrella . we should also consider why we be restrict member to be officer of no more than six appg . I have take part in appg throughout my time in this House . very few mp be initially interested in the APPG on leasehold and commonhold reform , until they realise that 6 million leaseholder be at risk . those who be interested should come to our meeting in Committee Room 11 at 6 pm , when we will be consider the Government ' s proposal and what we propose to do about they . I ask the Standards Committee to review appg . the Leader of the opposition be always welcome in Worthing . if he come to worthe West , he could say how his proposal to ignore local objection and to let in the bulldozer will affect the goring gap . if he come to East Worthing and Shoreham , he could talk to hard - work Labour councillor , who be offend that they can not be shortlist as the parliamentary candidate . may I , like other , start by pay tribute to his Majesty for deliver his first king ' s Speech ? it be clearly an historic moment , but for our king it must have be an emotional one . he make reference to his late mother , our late , amazing queen , and many of we listen to he feel that he deliver that speech with grace and aplomb , and we be very grateful to he . may I also pay tribute to the right hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) and the hon . member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) for their speech ? I have always rather admire the right hon . Gentleman , for many reason . his speech today be extremely entertaining , but I have always like the fact that he , like many on our Benches , oppose the third runway at Heathrow and that he be a constructive , if unfashionable , conservative in his view on a constructive relationship with our european partner . but perhaps what make he more at home with the current Government be his romantic enthusiasm for the steam engine , as we have hear : more noise than substance and go nowhere in the modern world . my mother - in - law , an expert beekeeper and honey producer — and the swarm officer for North Dorset , no less — would join the seconder of today ' s motion in congratulate Stroud on be the world ' s first bee guardian town . I be sure that Stroud have a real buzz about it , but the House will be pleased to hear that I do not intend to drone on and on . give your stricture at the beginning of this debate , Mr Speaker , I should like to clarify that I be not refer to any other Members in talk about drone on . today ' s Gracious Speech be overshadow by horrify event around the world , with the monstrous terrorist attack by Hamas on Israel one month ago — more than 1 , 400 Israelis be slaughter and hundred be take hostage , and they be in our thought today — and now the dire humanitarian situation in Gaza . innocent Palestinians have be cut off from food , water and medicine . their home have be destroy , and more than 10 , 000 have be kill . we also have war on our continent , as the brave ukrainian people continue to resist Vladimir Putin ' s war machine . at time of global crisis such as this , the UK can be a force for good , when it stand tall in the world . but the british voice can be at its strong only when we have a government that be strong and united . I be afraid that that be sadly lack now . as the Gracious Speech show , we do not even have a Government strong and unite enough to take real action here on the challenge that people face at home . these be very tough time for the british people . they be work hard , show remarkable decency and strength , but people be find it hard and hard just to make end meet . instead of help , what have this out - of - touch Conservative Government do in this King ' s Speech and over the past few year ? they have put up taxis , energy bill and mortgage payment . they have be add to the pain , instead of soothe it . let we look just at energy , where today the Government could have bring forward plan to ensure Britain ' s energy security and to bring down energy price , with sustainable energy price cut , for the long term . the Government could have announce plan to insulate home to cut people ' s energy bill and to invest properly in cheap , clean , renewable energy for the future . instead , the Conservatives be choose , once again , to shackle we to the expensive , dirty fossil fuel of the past . today ' s Speech be yet more proof that this government simply do not care . just last week , the covid inquiry hear that during the pandemic the Government think that old people should just " accept their fate " . that callous approach reveal an attitude that stretch far beyond the pandemic . by fail to address the cost of living crisis , the NHS and care crisis , the sewage crisis and many other crisis like they , this King ' s Speech , in essence , tell family and pensioner struggle to get by to " accept their fate " . this government tell the pensioner , wait week to see her gp , to accept her fate , and the cancer patient , waiting month just to start treatment , to accept his fate . they tell community who be see their river pollute and their countryside destroy to accept their fate . they tell the british people , feed up with be take for grant by an out - of - touch Government , to accept their fate . however , whatever this government might want , the people of our great country — the british people — have never be one to sit back quietly and accept their fate . they will not accept a Government who be so weak and divide that they can not tackle the country ' s challenge . they will not accept a conservative party that be out of touch and out of idea ; they will kick it out of office . they will get that chance soon . no matter how long the Prime Minister delay it , an election be come , so the british people do not have to accept the miserable fate of this tired Conservative Government . they can choose a well future and I believe they will . I draw the House ' s attention to two entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be director and chair of the Global Commission for Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking , and I chair the Aldersgate Group , which bring business , non - governmental organisation , academic and other together to champion a prosperous , net zero emission , environmentally - sustainable economy . both of those role be unpaid . I be sorry that the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) be no long in his seat . I want to take the opportunity to welcome he to the House , despite the fact that I work to make sure he do not get here . the reason I want to welcome and congratulate he be that he be my first cousin once remove . I be not sure whether that connection will do more damage to his career or mine . in case hon . member be wonder about the family , we share a relative who , I be tell , toy with communism in his youth and another relative — my cousin , the hon . member ' s uncle — who be the former liberal Democrat leader of Brighton and Hove City Council , so we cover all basis . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) on what I think be witty , incisive , thoughtful and excellent speech propose and second the Humble Address . there be thing in the King ' s Speech that I welcome , some of which may not have be spot by other member of the House . I welcome the fact that it be propose to amend the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , which be important groundbreaking legislation when it be bring through when I be Home Secretary . as thing have develop , it be right that we look at it again , so we ensure we have the right legislation to keep we safe . I also welcome the important reference to take more action on child sexual abuse , include groom . have see t - level introduce and have long thought we need to ensure an equivalent between academic and technical or vocational qualification , I welcome the Government ' s intention to do just that . indeed , I welcome the long - term ambition that the Government have express . they need to take long - term decision because good government be not about grab at short - term decision to get a headline , but about do what be in the national interest and the long - term interest of the country . on that point , I be surprised to receive an email in the name of my right hon . friend the Prime Minister , send out , I think , by the Conservative party , that read : " from net zero to HS2 , smoke to education , we be go to tackle the challenge that other politician have be afraid to even talk about . " since I read that , I have be rack my brain as to which Prime Minister put net zero in 2050 into legislation . answer on a postcard , please . as I say , I welcome the long - term approach that have be take by the Government , but some element should have be in the King ' s Speech and I be concerned that they be miss . the first be on modern slavery . back in 2022 , the legislative reform agenda publish by the then Prime Minister ' s Office for the late queen ' s Speech outline plan to reform the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and , in particular , to introduce strong measure in relation to business and their supply chain . business can be transformative if they really look into their supply chain and take action if they find force labour and exploitation in those supply chain . so I be very sorry that we have not see amendment to the Modern Slavery Act bring forward in this Gracious Speech . I be also concerned about the lack of commitment to a new mental health Act . it be back in 2017 that the review into the Mental Health Act be announce . that be complete in 2018 . there be a White Paper in 2021 and a draft Bill in 2022 . the Joint Committee finish its legislative scrutiny of that draft Bill in January this year . several month on , we have not see a Government response to that report and , from 2017 to 2023 — six year on — we have not see a commitment to a new mental health Act . it be important that we do this . many voter will want to see it be do . I hope that , in the other measure that the Government bring forward , they will consider include a mental health Bill . I be extremely grateful to my right honourable Friend for make that powerful point about a mental health Act . do she agree that end the archaic elision of condition such as autism and neurodiverse condition with mental health would be another benefit of bring that legislation forward ? the legislation be need now , not next year . my right hon . and learn Friend have be a champion for those on the autistic spectrum . he have long raise the issue in relation to autism and neurodiversity . he be absolutely right that these change be need now — they should not be delay far . I sincerely hope that , in the other measure , the Government will consider bring that new mental health Bill forward . a couple of week ago , I speak to pupil at Cox Green School in my constituency . we talk about various issue . the teacher ask they to raise their hand if they be concerned about mental health — the majority do — and then to raise their hand if they be concern about climate change and the environment . again , the majority raise their hand . in relation to the King ' s Speech and the Government ' s programme on climate change and environmental degradation , the Government be miss an opportunity . what we need to do now be to press the accelerator on transition to a green economy , not try to draw back . the King ' s Speech say that " my Ministers will seek to attract record level of investment in renewable energy source , " but I fear that that ambition be not sufficiently strong to make sure that the Government make that transition quickly enough to ensure that we reach net zero in 2050 . it be no good wake up on 1 January 2045 and say , " we have five year to do something , let ' s do it now " because that will be even more costly for member of the public . rise — I call Jim Shannon . this be my maiden intervention in this term . I commend the right hon . Lady for what she be say . in Northern Ireland , we do not have the contract for difference scheme , but people have it here on the mainland . I have be keen to pursue this matter with the Government . it would help the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to meet its net zero figure if Northern Ireland be part of that . it need to be a part of it , but the contract for difference scheme — order . Mr Shannon , sit down for a second . we know that this be on net zero , but the point be that this be a speech , not a question , so quickly come to the end . do the right hon . Lady agree that we in Northern Ireland want to be part of the net zero scheme ? be it not right that we should do that through the contract for difference scheme ? I be tempt to say to the hon . Gentleman that , when he be call to speak , it be only 4 . 23 . of course we want to make sure that all part of the United Kingdom be part of our plan . I do not know the contract for difference detail that he talk about , but we want to make sure that every part of the United Kingdom be able to contribute to the work to reach net zero , and there be thing the Government must do to enable that . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech and I completely agree on the need to keep focus on the pathway to net zero . I be a member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , and we be tell that unlock the grid and make fast approval for new energy scheme to come on to the grid be most vital in that pathway . do she welcome what there be in the King ' s Speech about transform the speed at which decision can be make about new power come on to our grid ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right that get those grid connection right and make it easy and fast for people to make they be critical for we to reach net zero . I be pleased that the reform of grid connection be in the King ' s Speech ; we wait to hear the detail of what the Chancellor and the Secretary of State will bring forward on that . there be one other aspect of the move to the green economy that the Government need to address now , and not in 10 year ' time when the advanced british standard come on board : the green skill agenda . we must ensure that the young people of today be be train in the skill need for the green economy and that people already in work be be retrain . gas engineer must be retrain to deliver heat pump , for example . there be many area where we must make sure that we have a workforce fully train to meet the need of that new economy . I hope that the Government be go to press the accelerator on that . rise — rise — I be be inundate . I will give way to the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) first . the right hon . Lady be make a most interesting contribution . in year go by , we have the skill to construct massive structure for the North sea . if we can pass those skill on to the next generation , they can contribute to the green economy . the trouble be that the people who do that in the past be get old and near to retirement , so surely time be of the essence . the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I think time be of the essence anyway , regardless of whether we be look at people who have have those skill in the past . we must look at our training and skill and at our education system to make sure it be train people up for those future requirement . I be sure my right hon . friend will be pleased to know that , in Scarborough , a green construction skill village be part of our town deal , and those skill be already be deliver to young people and to old people who need to reskill . that be absolutely excellent and I thank my right hon . friend for inform I of it . I be sorry , Mr Speaker , but yet again it would seem that Scarborough be lead — I be reliably inform it be not in Lancashire . green skill be important , but I also worry that we be send mixed message to investor . they need to have the confidence to invest in our transition to a green economy and we need to show that the Government be press the accelerator on that . the good long - term decision we can make be on climate change . the long - term future of this country and its people depend on we deal with climate change and environmental degradation , so I want the Government to press the accelerator , not to roll backwards . before I start , I must declare an interest — I be a leaseholder and , as per my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , I be a landlord — since I want to comment on both those issue . first , however , I congratulate the right hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) and the hon . member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) on propose and second the Humble Address . both be entertaining , and it be one of the pleasure of the parliamentary year to sit back , relax and have a few laugh . I thank they both for give we that as we move on to the serious business . it be always a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) . I think she need to join I on my campaign for slow politic , because clearly we have the same agenda here . some of the good political decision be those where we be look 10 , 20 or even 30 year ahead , and she be right that we need to be look at net zero now and plan ahead . unfortunately , though , this King ' s Speech , and indeed the record of this government lead by the party of which she be a member , be thin gruel in that respect . we have in this King ' s Speech the offering of what have really now become a zombie Government . I do not use that word lightly — I be not just a soundbite woman — but in a Parliament , where we too often break early because there be not enough business to carry on , there be many thing that could have be in this King ' s Speech to deliver for the people of Hackney South and Shoreditch and for those up and down the country . it have to be acknowledge that this King ' s Speech be not land out of the blue in a new parliamentary term ; it come on the back of 13 year of this Government , who have lead through chaos and create chaos . austerity have leave a long shadow and a lack of resilience in our public sector , and it be tell now . the wage freeze bring in by the former Chancellor George Osborne be now hit and have , with the cost of living , create a perfect storm for our constituent up and down the country . on the handling of Brexit , which the right hon . member for Maidenhead know about only too painfully , it be poorly deliver in the end , in the hand of her successor , and none of the promise of the early day of that campaign be deliver . we on the Public Accounts Committee see that through our work . we have produce 12 report on the delivery of Brexit , all of which find the Government want . we have see gimmick at Budgets . again , the former Chancellor be one of the bad for that — or well , depend on our point of view . the lifetime ISA , for example , have wither on the vine as a novel financial product that be not keep up , either by that Chancellor or by subsequent Chancellors . I will touch on that in a moment . of course , we can not look at the King ' s Speech without mention the premiership of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , who crash the economy and have cause havoc in the life of our constituent . in this Chamber , on these green Benches , it can sometimes seem that we be remote , but week in , week out I be on doorstep in Hackney South and Shoreditch see the reality of people struggle to pay for the food that they need , live without food , go to the food bank when they can , and live in massively overcrowded condition . it be not long covid that be lead to a lot of those issue ; it be long austerity — that lack of resilience in public service and the public sector ; that lack of investment in school , hospital and other area such as defence . basically , most capital spending be frozen or reduce , and that have lead to a grow problem . whichever party be in power after the next general election , which can not come soon enough , will have — to borrow the word of Laurel and Hardy — another fine mess to deal with in so many area of the public sector . the Public Accounts Committee , which I have the privilege of chairing , regularly examine capital spending , as well as day - to - day spending , and we see the problem . report after report highlight that issue be miss or not deal with , and that we be now reap the problem . this King ' s Speech and this Prime Minister promise change , but we see nothing of that in what have be announce . there be no real hope here for renter or those who want to buy their own home , and no plan to tackle poverty and to really level up . in Hackney South and Shoreditch — in fact , across the whole borough of Hackney — one in two child live in poverty . in London in 2023 , we have that level of poverty . in the borough of Hackney as a whole , which comprise two constituency , 28 % of people be private renter , 28 % be owner - occupier and 44 % be social renter , while 77 % of property — nearly four in five — be leasehold property , which mean that leasehold reform be of particular interest to I and my constituent . the median house price in Hackney South and Shoreditch be £ 600 , 000 . that be more than 16 time the median Hackney household income , so home ownership be out of reach for generation rent and for the people live in social housing , which be massively overcrowded , often with four child to a bedroom and many teenager share bedroom with their mother because there be nowhere else to sleep . they have no opportunity to get on the housing ladder or to rent privately . that bring I to the lifetime ISA . I have not see the detail of the King ' s Speech because I come here to talk about it , but the lifetime ISA cap for first - time buyer be still £ 450 , 000 . the average first - time buyer in Hackney pay £ 595 , 000 in August this year , so that cap do not reach anywhere near what be need . even the Government ' s propose solution do not keep up with demand , and their complete detachment from the reality of the choice that people have to make be a real issue . I have two brief point . first , will the hon . Lady join I in commend Martin Lewis for spell this out on MoneySavingExpert . com ? minister ought to pay attention to it . secondly , through she , may I say that I too be a leaseholder ? I do not think I be affect by the Government ' s proposal , but I should have put it on the record . the Father of the House and I obviously share support for the work that Martin Lewis do in bring these consumer finance issue to the mainstream and manage to explain thing that people think be complicated in an incredibly simple way . no Chancellor should make these policy up at the Dispatch Box , because they wither . the Chancellor themself lose interest , as do subsequent Chancellors and the Treasury . the child trust fund have not keep up since the Government withdraw it , and there be many other example like that . I have a lot of constituent who be trap in the private rented sector , with no security . the average two - bed rent in Hackney be just £ 2 shy of £ 2 , 000 a month this year . we have a huge challenge in that there be no security for those resident , include the security that be need to bring a family up , because they get move on far too quickly , yet we have see the lack of the promise abolition of section 21 eviction in the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which be introduce just before the King ' s Speech and be expect to continue in this Session of Parliament . the reason be that the court be back up . that be a valid reason , but whose fault be it that the court be back up ? it be due to a lack of investment by this Government over the year . it be not just covid , because as we have highlight on the Public Accounts Committee , the delay in the court be there before covid hit ; covid have an impact , but the delay be there . we will not be back to pre - covid court delay time until 2025 . it be no wonder that private renter be live in despair . the promise of this measure be deliver have be dangle repeatedly , and once again we see it whisk away , leave tenant with no security and no knowledge of whether they can make a house a home . we have a big shortage of social housing in Hackney . we have 8 , 351 household on the wait list for council housing in Hackney . that be after stringent rule be bring in to reduce it , so that people have some hope . the current waiting time for social housing in Hackney be about 12 year for a three - bedroom property . it be simply unacceptable . renting be out of reach , home ownership be out of reach and there be not enough house building , which be why I welcome my party ' s proposal to build significantly more home . the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) be on the Front Bench . he know , because he do the math and he have be a member of the Public Accounts Committee , that even the Government ' s downward revise target for affordable housing have not be meet . they set a target and have to reduce it , and even that reduced target have not be meet . that be happen while people be live in overcrowded and difficult condition . leasehold reform be oft promise , but nothing have yet be deliver , and I would like to see it vote through . as a Labour and Co - op MP , I would like to see a move towards commonhold . there be work be do on that in other country that we can build on . it be not a quick path — it be slow to deliver this — but that be another reason we need to get move and start on it now . I commend the Father of the House for his pioneer work to champion the issue of leaseholder in this place . the King ' s Speech talk about deliver on the NHS workforce plan . of course , the Public Accounts Committee take an interest in that as well . I welcome the NHS workforce plan , because it be a good start , but it be only fund the training of people list in the NHS workforce plan for the first five year . there be no plan or long - term strategy for how we fund those health professional who be work in frontline healthcare and hospital , deliver for patient , which will cause a problem down the line . it be another fine mess wait for any future Government . I welcome discussion about how artificial intelligence be handle . I agree with the right hon . member for Maidenhead about make sure that we keep the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 up to date with how the modern digital world be work . we need to do that in a calm , professional , cross - party way , because this should not be a political football . there will be difficult choice at the margin about — rightly — protect civil liberty , right and access to datum and about protect the most vulnerable in our society . we need to make sure that , in the heat of an election year , that discussion be have sensibly . I also welcome the Prime Minister ' s personal commitment to reduce smoking , which I think will be a game changer in public health for our child ' s generation . I be pleased with the proposal on safeguarding of the future of football . it sound like a bold promise , but I would like to see more detail . as a Co - op MP , I be a long - stand champion of Supporters Direct , which enable fan to part - own their club . if we go down that route , I be happy to support the Government , but we will wait to see the exact detail . I be pleased that unlicensed pedicab will finally be deal with . I have work with the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) to tackle that issue , and it be time that it be deal with . we have have too many broken promise from the Government . we now need delivery , but the King ' s Speech do not do that . we have chaos in this country . People be struggle with the cost of live and we need change . frankly , we need a general election . we need opportunity and hope , and the only way we be go to get that be with a Labour Government . it be a privilege to follow the Public Accounts Committee Chairman . she will understand that I have a certain affection for she in these debate because of her position . the hon . Lady make a comment about look forward 30 year . the whole western world face a paradox that go back 30 year . in the 1990 , three massive thing happen in the world : first , there be a dramatic reduction in tariff , which lead to a huge increase in global trade ; secondly , there be the collapse of the soviet empire ; and finally , there be a dramatic acceleration in the creation and adoption of new technology . all those thing raise well over 2 billion people out of oppression by starvation and out of political oppression . they change the world dramatically for the well , but those dramatic change have have a number of effect . today , we face a series of challenge in the western world , not just in Britain , that be more complex and more difficult to deal with than any I can remember since 1979 , whether it be Ukraine and the series of war that be break out , whether it be the migration that result from that , whether it be domestic challenge such as the impact on the wage of the western work class — much of the impetus for Brexit be the result of working - class wage across the west be depress by competition with the rest of the world — whether it be the impact on public finance , which derive partly from that , or whether it be the impact on public service , which be fail not just in Britain but in many country , to some extent for the same reason . that be why , unlike the hon . Lady , I welcome what I think of as the common sense in the King ' s Speech . there be a number of sensible measure , include on crime and justice to promote safety , justice and closure for victim , which be important , and on net zero , where the approach be intelligent and measure , rather than headline drive . that be important — the old net zero strategy would not have survive the public reaction . like the hon . Lady , I vehemently welcome the policy on smoking . we have do far too little for many decade to focus on public health , rather than patch people up in the last three year of their life , which be what our national health service have be reduce to do . in education , we be build on some of our success , include in PISA — the programme for international student assessment — and our international competitiveness . there be much to recommend in the proposal in the King ' s Speech , particularly with respect to apprenticeship and vocational education . the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education be brilliant and be make a great difference . broadly , the proposal be sensible , but the House would be surprised and disappointed if I do not find something to criticise in the Home Office proposal . I will not surprise the House — I be go to pick up on something that I think be a fundamental mistake . I hope that Ministers will think hard before they introduce the proposal , which have be air in briefing in the last day or two , to allow the police to search home without a warrant . this be one of the fundamental foundation stone of a free british society , along with jury trial and the presumption of innocence . the right not to have the state kick your door down and search your house without judicial approval be a massively important british value . if anybody have any doubt about that , I have two word to say to they : " Damian Green " . they should go back and look at what happen with the Metropolitan police ' s handling of the case , as it be , of my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) . the Leader of the opposition be then the Director of Public Prosecutions , and he in effect strike down the Metropolitan police ' s behaviour . we have to think about that very hard indeed , because the judicial control of the police be vital and must be preserve . beyond that , the education measure be good as far as they go — as I have say , particularly on skill — but I would go far , as I will explain in a moment . indeed , all King ' s Speeches be basically just framework , not the whole agenda for the come year , and this one be the same . as a result , the last line of every King ' s Speech be always the same : " other measure will be lay before you . " I want to talk about what I think those other measure ought to be . what should those measure be ? I think most of they should be in area where the state be struggle to cope with the worldwide problem I have talk about arise over the last 30 year . by the way , it be not an accident that I say " 30 year " ; that cover government of both persuasion , and neither have manage — in some case , I might say they have fail — to solve the thing I be go to talk about . the one advantage we have when it come to the problem I be about to lay out in education , health and housing — the three critical area on which we need to go far — be that for the first two , technology may come to our aid to some extent . I , like the Public Accounts Committee Chairman , welcome the move on AI . I think it be quite risky to have that conference , but it work diplomatically . it have not get a solution yet , but that have get we on the first step . let I talk about health for a second . all party have take the approach for my entire lifetime , which be much the same as the lifetime of the health service , of put more and more money into the health service . we be now talk about a huge amount of money ; it swallow the entire amount of national insurance contribution , and what be suppose to cover health and pension now simply cover health . we spend more money than the OECD average on health — that in itself be quite extraordinary — but it do not deliver . we can put all sort of excuse in the way , but this be more about management than it be about money . before we get to covid , from 2017 - 18 to 2018 - 19 we put about £ 3 billion extra into health in real term — and what happen ? Productivity go down by 0 . 75 % . the next year , we put in £ 7 billion , and productivity go down by over 2 % . that be before covid start . those dry number sound bad , but they do not quite carry the terror of the actual effect , and I be go to give an example from my own constituency to explain what I mean . I have a constituent whose name be Richard . he have have cancer , and have be operate on and cure , and as a result he have regular six - monthly check - up thereafter to watch for any outbreak . but through administrative failure , he do not get the check - up , so be at least six month behind the timetable . we all know that the later we diagnose a cancer , the more difficult it be to solve . the operation he be suppose to have be then delay as well , and it get to the point where basically there be no chance of recovery for Richard . he come into my life , as it be , as I be his constituency MP and his family want he out of hospital for Christmas so that he could die among his friend and family rather than surround by stranger . that be what we be talk about thousand and thousand of time over . that be the impact of this failure . I think there be a lot of thing we can with respect to the re - management of the health service , but I will talk about one . be my right hon . friend aware that the Office for National Statistics publish figure for the three year from 2020 to 2022 , which state that public service productivity in general fall by an unprecedented 7 . 5 % ? that mean that we need to put roughly £ 30 billion extra into public service to achieve the same thing . my right hon . friend be right : it be a systemic problem . it do not just affect Britain or the health service . indeed , I think that number for those year for the health service be about 25 % — so huge , huge number . I bring this back to the reality of the individual . if we delay diagnosis and treatment , we sentence people to death . it be as harsh as that . I would like we dramatically to increase the amount of diagnostic capacity we have . if we look at OECD number on CT scan , I think we be third from bad . this be why I say it be not a single Government problem — we do not get to be third from bad in one term ; it happen over the course of the whole 30 year . on MRI scan , we be the bad in the OECD . how on earth a country such as ours get to that position be astonishing . rise — I give way to the PAC Chairman . the right hon . Gentleman be make some interesting point , and the total amount of Whitehall day - to - day spending on health be phenomenal . on the point about scanner , I be afraid that lie directly at the door of his government — well , I be not afraid ; it do . the lack of capital investment in the big bit of kit have lead to deterioration and lack of availability . such investment would have save money , and be well for the patient and well generally for the health of the nation . I agree with the hon . Lady on the save money element , and I will come back to that in a second . the truth be that this Government have pour more money into the health service than anybody ever predict , and more money than they intend over time , but decision within the health service — I come back to management rather than money — lead to some of those decision . the hon . Lady be dead right that it be a waste of money not to do the diagnosis . I be talk about MRI and CT scan , blood test , and all the other thing that help we get ahead of the disease . I talk to Randox , one of the diagnostic company , which be base in Northern Ireland , and ask about this issue . it have technology that it say will reduce a seven - day analysis of blood sample , for example , to 30 minute . my view be that we should break clear of the ideology and look dramatically to increase the amount of scan and diagnostic procedure — when I say " dramatically " , I mean a multiple of what we currently do — and we should use the private sector to do it . I know that cause a bridling and a backing off , but the only way we can do this fast enough be to do that . that would save about £ 3 billion and reduce waiting list for million of people . most importantly of all , it would save thousand of life . if there be one thing I would do within healthcare , that would be it ; there would be other thing , but that would be that . the right hon . Gentleman be talk a lot of sense in relation to cancer diagnosis and well treatment . one way of do that be through research and development . for example , there have be advance in prostate cancer at queen ' s University , with that centre of excellence in Belfast , and news today of pill that can reduce the risk of breast cancer . those be just two example . do the right hon . Gentleman feel that research and development be key to advance and save life , and get well result for cancer patient ? that be exactly right , which bring I to my other health topic , and the whole question of national health service datum and the use of datum . it be widely accept that we have one of the great information treasure trove in the world in the form of national health service datum — datum about all our citizen . there have be two or three attempt — certainly two in my memory — to bring that datum together and manage it in one block , so that it be available for manage the treatment of patient and for research . a third attempt be happen right now , with contract out to introduce a new data management system for the whole health service . the two previous attempt fail because the national health service executive and management do not understand the importance of privacy . each time they try to do it , the reaction from GPs and patient be , " we be not go to co - operate with this . " there be a vast waste of money , and the project crash and be over . more importantly than the money , we miss the opportunity to do exactly what the hon . Gentleman say : use that datum for research to advance this country to the front of the world . the Government be do the same again this time , because the contract have go out , and it look likely that the company that will win it be Palantir . for those who do not know Palantir , it start , I think , with an investment from the CIA . its history be largely in support the National Security Agency in America . bluntly , it be the wrong company to put in charge of our precious datum resource ; even if it behave perfectly , nobody would trust it . the thing that destroy the last two attempt will destroy this one : people will not sign up and join up . the health service have get to get its act together on this . if it do , and privacy be protect , we can do thing like have a complete nationwide dna database . if privacy be not protect , that will not happen . there be an opportunity there , and the Government should grasp it , not drop it . technology also have a large possible application to education . I be lucky that when I be a teenager , social mobility in Britain be probably as great as it ever have be , for a variety of reason , range from grammar school , which I know be controversial , through to the fact that post war , there be huge growth in the middle class , which expand opportunity . those combination together create a massive social mobility advantage for people like I . I be very lucky in that respect . today , while I think we be about no . 10 or 11 in the PISA — the programme for international student assessment — table , we be no . 21 in the social mobility table , and we should not be that far down . we need to do something about that issue . one reason it happen be that 35 % of child by the age of 11 — child go through their primary education — be unable to cope with their math and English sufficiently to make progress in other subject . in essence , they be fail by the age of 11 . for free school meal kid — I be look at my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) — it be 50 % . half of child on free school meal have be fail by the state by the time they be 11 , and there be all sort of reason why . even with vast amount of effort , with committed teacher , headteacher and so on put all their effort in , it still come apart . one thing we can do about it — and the Department have begin to talk about it — be to start to use AI in the classroom , so that child can have tailor teaching . a kid who be fall behind get diagnostic response from AI , which then generate appropriate teaching pattern to pull they back up . we already have such technology . in fact , a british firm call Century Tech do exactly that . I see it in action in Springhead Primary School in my constituency , where there be an intervention class for child who be fall behind , and they be pull back up use this technology . if we apply such technology right across the board , it would raise the average performance in our school by one grade per subject . that be an enormous change . that be my judgment , not anybody else ' s . if we do that , our competitive advantage and our social mobility advantage would be enormous . we have to think very hard . the Department for Education have to be a lot more imaginative than it have be so far in this area , and it have to look hard at improve the option for all those child we currently let down . that be not because the Government intend it , or because this Government or previous one have fall down on it ; this statistic have be go on for a long time . the last thing I want to talk about be not technology , but brick and mortar . I have some sympathy with the comment of the PAC Chairman , in that it be as plain as a pikestaff that we have a supply problem , however we analyse it and whoever we blame for it . our population have grow by about 10 % — 6 million or 7 million — over a couple of decade , for all sort of reason ; we can get into controversy on that , but the truth be that housing have not grow to match . one of the problem — I guess the primary problem — be the planning system . this be not the first time the country have face this problem . we face it after both the world war , when " home fit for hero " and so on be the slogan of the day . how do we deal with it ? we have a movement to create well - design and well - create garden town and city in the right place , not by try to tack on 100 house to this village , 100 house to that village and 100 house over there , in each case overwhelm the schooling , transport arrangement or whatever . we need to look hard at cut this gordian knot , and it seem to I that the only way we will do that be by create well - design , well - finance garden town and village , not by go through the mechanism we have be pursue so far . health , education and housing : if we add those to what we have now , we have a win king ' s Speech . rise — order . there be not huge pressure on time , but by my calculation we have 24 more people to get in , so my advice be not to go much over 12 minute . that would mean that each person could have 12 minute . if people go long than that , we will get into some problem . I appreciate the fact that you have call I so early in the debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . despite the fact that Mr Speaker have reset the clock so that it appear that my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have never speak in the House — [ Laughter . ] I have be call before he , so thank you very much for that . may I first , on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party , congratulate the King on his first king ' s Speech and the way in which he deliver it ? our gratitude also go to his mother , who for so long serve our nation . I also congratulate the proposer and seconder of the Loyal Address . however , when the right hon . member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) be be praise by some member on the Opposition Front Bench , I must say that I wonder how they marry up their commitment to net zero with the right hon . Gentleman ' s pride in have three coal - guzzle steam engine and what that do to the carbon footprint in Yorkshire . nevertheless , I be glad that some of the mad idea — that we should change our lifestyle because of the threat from carbon dioxide be put into the atmosphere — have not put he off . I want to note three thing about the Gracious Speech . first , there be the thing that I be glad about . I be glad that the Government have once again restate their commitment to stand by those who be under attack from tyrant and from terrorism , with their commitment to Ukraine and their commitment to Israel , both of which be under huge pressure at present . indeed , across the world there appear to have be a tiring in support for the war in Ukraine and for the Ukrainian Government as well as , almost immediately , condemnation of the nation of Israel for stand up and do its duty by its citizen who be brutally murder by terrorist . many people — some of they may be well - mean , and some may be simply react to the cruelty of war — be call for an immediate ceasefire . while the Government of Israel have their citizen hold captive and while Israel ' s very existence be under threat because of a huge terrorist army on its doorstep , regardless of how strong the siren call be from the UN , nation across the world and all the non - governmental organisation , it would be foolish to go for a ceasefire . it be a typical terrorist tactic : when terrorist be under pressure or the state come after they , they call for a ceasefire . what for — because they want to stop the violence ? no . it be because they want to regroup . we have see it in Northern Ireland . when the terrorist in Northern Ireland be under pressure , they declare ceasefire . it give they time to regroup , and I do not think the situation in the middle east be any different . there will be difficult day ahead — I be sure there will be picture on our tv screen that will make we all sorrowful — but I hope our Government stand by the resolution in the King ' s Speech and stand by the state of Israel in defence of its citizen . the second thing that I be glad about be the Government ' s willingness to grant licence to exploit the resource that we have in the earth and in the sea around our country . whether we like it or not , we be go to use oil and gas for many decade in the future , so I can not for the life of I understand why such a policy be even controversial . what be controversial about replace import with our own oil production ? what be controversial about defend 200 , 000 job in that industry ? what be controversial about ensure energy security ? we have already hear speech today about the difficulty in finance our public service . what be controversial about promote an industry that will pay billion in taxation , which can then be use to finance Government service ? I be pleased that the Government have make a commitment to grant licence ; the only thing I will say , give that the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) be in her place , be this . the one threat that I see to the ability to deliver on that pledge be that those who oppose it have be hand a sledgehammer , which they will be able to use in judicial review and court case , and so on , because we still have a commitment in legislation to reach net zero by 2050 . we have see it already . every time an infrastructure project be propose that require the use of oil and gas , it be challenge in the court on the basis that to allow it will detract from the ability to meet our target of net zero by 2050 . the Government can issue licence and invite application for licence , but I have absolutely no doubt that every one of they will be challenge in court on the basis that we still have legally bind target for 2050 , and I suspect that it will be the same for some of the other measure that the Government have introduce . in fact , although there be a song and dance about how the Government be no long ban the sale of diesel and petrol car by 2030 , I note that legislation have be announce — I suspect this be to create a defence in court — to ensure that , whether or not there be a ban on buy car , there will be a ban on make they . the manufacturer will be oblige to increase the percentage of electric vehicle they sell every year , despite the fact that the demand side of the market will not be control in that way — unless , of course , we find that quota have to be set for sale , as well as for manufacturing . the third thing that I be glad about be that the Government will introduce a trade and investment Bill that will enable we to benefit from leave the EU . I know that there be those who will tell we that leave the EU be the most disastrous decision we ever make — we get it every week in this House . the truth of the matter be that all the doomster forecaster have be wrong . I can remember debate in this place when we be tell that people would be queue up in the supermarket , unable to get food . the Office for Budget Responsibility tell we that our GDP would fall by 4 % because our trade would fall , yet statistic this week show not only that our trade with the EU have increase by 13 % , but that our trade with the rest of the world have increase by 14 % . one reason be that we no long have to rely on trade deal that require 27 country to agree policy and arrangement , and we can do what be good for Britain . I be glad the Government intend to build on that . People think that we do not make anything any long as a result of Brexit , but only this week we find that we be the seventh big manufacturing nation in the world , have overtake France , so there be good thing . I be glad the Government intend to build on that and I hope they do so . when I see how they back off when there be a little opposition to move away from EU law , I sometimes wonder whether we be prepared to use the good of our freedom . I be sad about one thing : the fact that in the King ' s Speech the Government have to make a promise to promote the integrity of the Union and strengthen the social fabric of the United Kingdom . I be sad that such a promise even have to be make . it be only necessary because successive Prime Ministers have play fast and loose with the Union in negotiation with the European Union . relation with the European Union be regard as more important than relation within the United Kingdom . we even have minister defend their decision about the withdrawal Bill in court , admit that when the Bill go through this House we impliedly remove article 6 of the Act of Union , the very economic basis of the Union that there should be freedom of trade and freedom of movement . during recess , the Government introduce yet another statutory instrument , on plant health regulation . as a result of the negotiation with the EU , Northern Ireland be now regard by the EU as a third country in relation to the rest of the United Kingdom . in the plant health regulation introduce during recess , the Government of our own country be now , for the very first time , regard Northern Ireland as a third country . so , there be much that need to be do to promote the Union . the hon . member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) be a yoga specialist . I hope we will not see the same kind of yoga contortion from the government when it come to their position on the Union and Northern Ireland ' s position within it . my last point be about one of those thing that I think be mad , but other have praise : introduce legislation — albeit well meaning and everything else — to ban smoking . in 20 year ' time , some poor shopkeeper be go to have to decide , " be that person who come in here ask for 20 fag 48 or 47 ? be he go to have to send his 48 - year - old mate in to buy the cigarette for he ? " introduce legislation of that nature be just mad . I hope we will see delivery on some of the good thing . I hope we will see the Government deliver on strengthen the Union , undo the damage of the Windsor framework and the protocol , and restore Northern Ireland ' s position within the Union . I have declare my business interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I hope the Government be listen to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) on those important matter for Northern Ireland . it be vital that there be change to the Windsor framework , so that Northern Ireland be properly a part of our United Kingdom and can accept our commonly agree law on everything from taxation through to the arrangement over product and trading . I welcome very much the emphasis in the King ' s Speech on the United Kingdom ' s produce more of our own oil and gas in substitution for that which we be currently import . the logic of substitution be most obvious in the case of gas . we have gas pipeline already instal to bring gas from the field to the mainland , with capacity in they because gas output have be decline ; and , of course , if we deliver it directly through gas pipeline we have none of the extra cost and trouble of transit involve in import liquefy natural gas , usually from the United States or Qatar . those who be keen on the road to net zero should recognise that have our own gas down a pipe greatly reduce the amount of world carbon dioxide because so much more carbon dioxide be generate if it be necessary to liquefy the gas , to transport it for long distance , and then to recreate it as gas when it arrive . all those be very energy - intensive process which we do not need if we generate more of our own gas from the North sea . I have good news for Ministers . let I remind they that although they say they think we need a bit of additional legislation for future licensing round , what we really need to do be concentrate on develop the exist field and the new discovery that have be well know about , in many case , for a great many year , and maximise the output of what we already have so that the gas and the oil come more quickly and at low cost , because we need it now . Most of our constituent still need gas for their domestic heating and will need it for the foreseeable future , most of our industrial plant run on gas as their main source of energy , and most of we have petrol or diesel car , so we still need the fraction of oil to run our transport . it be important for we to get on with that — and , as the right hon . member for East Antrim have say , another great bonus for all of we , include the Treasury , be that the soon we get that oil and gas land , the soon we will secure a big increase in tax revenue from which we could benefit , enable we to get the deficit down and support the public service that we wish to see . I be very pleased that the King ' s Speech begin with the mighty topic of the economy . I be sure that the Government and the Prime Minister would agree that what we do over the next year to get inflation down more quickly , to bring about fast growth to create more and well - pay job , and to secure the extra investment that we want to see be absolutely vital . again , I have good news for the Government . I think there be measure that they can take in a future Finance Bill — which , I be sure , will constitute part of our proceeding over the next year — that would help to achieve all those aim . they be not incompatible , and we do not have to wait . some people seem to think it be necessary to sequence it and to spend a year of misery — with a massive credit squeeze and an austerity Budget — to get inflation down before we can think about do the other thing , but if we cut the right taxis , we can bring forward the reduction in inflation , and that , of course , have a direct knock - on effect on the cost of run public service . one of the reason we have see such a big increase in public spending in the last year or so be the massive rise in inflation , because so many thing be directly gear to the inflation rate . so , Government , let we have a year of temporary tax cut on energy , because british energy be far too expensive . it make we much less competitive , and it be a burden on household budget . I would pay for that — because I do not want to increase the overall deficit — by sell all those NatWest share that we still have . interest rate have go up a lot , and bank should be make a lot more money . let we just sell all the share and use that for a one - year advantage while the oil and gas price be still very elevated , and to ease the transition from slow growth to high growth and to a fast reduction in inflation , which will then help reduce the deficit . we also need measure to help small business and the self - employ . it be of great concern to I , as it should be to many other member , that we have 800 , 000 few self - employ people today than be know about , at least , in February 2020 . some of that be due to covid and lockdown or to natural retirement , but some of it be due to the sharp change in the tax system call IR35 , which take place in two tranche , one at the end of the last decade and one at the beginning of this one . it be now very difficult for people to grow business , particularly if they want contract from other business . this have put many people off , and we be not see the new generation of self - employ people come through that we have see in previous generation — and that be mightily important , because they provide much of the flexibility in our economy , and can also provide extra capacity . such measure would also help to provide worthwhile thing for people to do , because some will be currently without a job and will be on benefit generally . so , Government , change the tax system back to the pre - 2017 one which allow a phenomenal growth in the number of self - employ people , and help the working of not only product and service market but the job market itself . we all have many small business in our constituency and we know how important they be to the service and output of our local community . we know how flexible they be , how hard so many of they work and how prepared they be to go the last mile to win client and to look after client and customer . they need a tax break , and the first thing we should do — now that we no long have to accept the EU rule on vat registration — be to have a big increase in the threshold level at which business register for vat , because this be now a major constraint . I be sure we all know small business that turn down work or close down for a month extra during the year because they do not want to go over the £ 85 , 000 turnover , with all the burden of the compliance , regulation and paperwork that that would cause , as well as have to put 20 % on price and so forth . let we allow small business to enjoy their flexibility for long and to get to a bit big size — let they have one or two employee — before they have to go through all the hassle of registration and the legal pressure that that generate . I think that would generate more revenue from other type of taxis , and even on the strange Treasury arithmetic it would be quite a cheap item . for example , we could easily pay for it out of modest improvement in productivity , which we will need to ensure if we be to deal with the collapse in public sector productivity identify by my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) . there must be way to do something about that , and I believe that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be work on they . my final point relate to the Bank of England . the Bank be independent in the setting of the base rate and the work of the Monetary Policy Committee , but it be not independent in manage the mighty portfolio of bond that it currently own on behalf of the institution and wide taxpayer . the proof of that be the fact that successive Chancellors from Alistair Darling onwards sign a concordat with the Bank of England give it permission to buy bond and agree to pay any loss , should loss be make , when it come to sell they or when they mature . the Bank of England now wish to sell £ 100 billion - worth of bond over the next few month , now that they have crash on the market because of the Bank of England ' s change in interest rate policy and bond policy , mean that huge bill be be send to the Treasury . I believe that the bill be £ 24 billion of loss in the first four month of the current fiscal year , and the theoretical liability be over £ 170 billion of loss of that kind and of the kind of run loss due to the way in which the Bank hold bond at the moment . I would like to advise the Chancellor and the Governor of the Bank of England to look at what the European Central Bank be do . it too make the colossal mistake of overinflate , over - create money and buy too many bond at very expensive price , just as the Bank of England do , and it too end up with the predictable excess inflation that we have see . but the ECB be not panic out of those bond ; it be hold they until they repay , which will result in few loss for it . there will still be loss , because it often pay more for the bond than their actual repayment value , but it be not incur big loss by sell they at very depressed price on the market , now that the central bank have decide to smash the asset value of the bond that they spend quite a lot of time acquire just two or three year ago in many case . we need to do this because the Treasury should not have to make those huge loss and because money have now lurch from be crazily too expansive and likely to generate inflation to be far too tight and likely to overshoot in slow the economy too much . so please , Government — listen , watch and on this occasion I say learn from the European Central Bank , which seem to be get this just a bit more right than we be . then we might start to make progress in bring together the perfectly compatible aim of get some growth , which we will not get if we have too severe a credit squeeze , and get inflation down , which could be speed up with the right type of tax cut . even if we be not expect a great deal , the King ' s Speech be even more disappointing than we could have imagine . it be weak , empty and full of platitude . to make matter bad , it build on a very poor track record . the Government say that they want to create growth in the economy , but there be nothing in the King ' s Speech to explain how . their track record be abysmal . they have completely fail over 13 year to get any proper growth in the economy . wage have stagnate while inflation have skyrocket , leave people struggle in a massive cost of living crisis . create growth in the economy really matter . it be about people have good job and wage that keep pace with inflation , and it be about our have the money to invest in improve our sorely overstretch public service . labour would prioritise growth and invest in the green job of the future . that be why we need a change of Government , a Labour Government , and we need that change urgently . we see just last week how big international company be now make their investment decision for the future . although other country be woo company for their investment in the green job of the future , this Conservative Government be let down worker who work hard , often in difficult circumstance , during covid and adapt rapidly to change . take steel , which be a vital foundation industry . for year , this Conservative Government have be half - hearted in their support for the steel industry . they have fail to tackle the high energy price that make our steel uncompetitive , and they have fail to invest in the future . bad , there be 20 - plus project across Europe look at how to decarbonise the blast furnace process , but there be not one project in the UK . the Conservative Government , in their so - call big announcement back in September , promise only £ 0 . 5 billion to invest in an electric arc furnace in Port Talbot , whereas Labour have recognise and commit £ 3 billion to decarbonise the steel industry . that be the sort of investment need to get the necessary technology to green the blast furnace process . yes , we need electric arc furnace to recycle more of the 800 million tonne of steel that be currently export for recycling , but we also need to develop the necessary technology to transform the blast furnace process for extract iron from iron ore . just yesterday , we hear the dreadful news that the Chinese - own British Steel be close down blast furnace steel production in Scunthorpe , replace it with two electric arc furnace . this come hot on the heel of the devastating news in south - west Wales this past week that Tata Steel be plan to close down the blast furnace at Port Talbot by the spring of next year , long before the electric arc furnace will be operational . this mean a massive loss of income for thousand of worker and their family , and for the associated contractor , transport company and business in the community . this affect not just Port Talbot but the whole of south - west Wales . worker be fearful for the future of the Trostre tinplate work in my constituency . Trostre need steel of a quality that can currently be produce only by the blast furnace process . we have assurance that , when the blast furnace in Port Talbot close , Tata will import steel from abroad to feed Trostre . but it make no sense to lose all those job here in the UK and then to import steel make in blast furnace abroad , quite likely with much low environmental standard than our own . that do nothing to cut emission . furthermore , if we lose the mean to produce virgin steel in this country , we will be at the mercy of other country for the price we have to pay . if there be a world shortage , we may even not be able to get the steel we need for our vital industry . the fear at Trostre be about the medium and long - term future . if we no long have steel produce just down the railway track in Port Talbot , and if we have to import it from abroad , how economically viable will we be in comparison with competitor factory in the same company elsewhere ? tata ' s timescale to close down the blast furnace in Port Talbot by March next year have come as a massive shock for Port Talbot and for we in Trostre . the prospect of Port Talbot colleague lose job and Trostre become dependent on import steel be very worrying . we now need proper consultation between Tata and the union , but I also urge the Government to do everything possible to ensure that we keep steel production in this country . we be at a turning point in our industrial history but , with this Government , we be in very real danger of be leave behind . it be as if they be turn back to the horse and cart when everybody else be move on to the steam train . I be sure many member will remember the 2012 olympic opening ceremony in which , alongside the celebration of our NHS , we see a portrayal of the industrial revolution , for which the UK be globally renowned . just as we take the lead on that industrial revolution , we should be lead the way now on the green industrial revolution . but with this government we be not — we be be leave behind . I have meet representative of international company that have factory in the Llanelli constituency , and they be desperate to see cheap energy and a proper industrial strategy from this Government . car manufacturer and other be make crucial decision about where to invest in new production line and to build new factory . they recognise the loyalty of the workforce in Llanelli and other part of the UK , who have adapt to many change over the year , and they would be keen to invest . however , when company have factory spread across the globe , and they see the USA offer incentive through its Inflation Reduction Act and the EU with similar programme , and they compare the cheap energy price in competitor country and the proper industrial strategy in other country , but see nothing come from the UK Government , will it be any surprise if they choose to invest elsewhere ? we will be leave just with the current production line limp along until their product be no long require , while the shiny new factory will go elsewhere . there be no time to waste . the rest of the world be forge ahead with the green industrial revolution and they be not go to wait for the UK Government when other country be provide real incentive , as well as cheap energy . it be all very well mention growth in the King ' s Speech , but we absolutely need to see some flesh on the bone . this Conservative Government ' s reference to energy in the King ' s Speech beggar belief . while the rest of the world be go forward , make huge investment in green energy and technology , we see the UK Government go backwards , promote the issuing of more oil and gas licence , which , by the Government ' s own admission , will not bring down energy bill for consumer . we have huge potential in the UK to produce cheap energy through renewable , slash price for household , business and industry , while also cut our emission to zero — this be a win - win situation . we have huge potential for wind energy , both onshore and offshore , and some of the high tidal range in the world , with capacity around the UK to produce electricity 24 / 7 , not to mention the potential for wave technology , hydro and solar . by fast - track the development of renewable , we can both slash domestic energy bill and fuel a new green industrial revolution , with a massive roll - out of energy . that be precisely what we in the Labour party intend to do . we have a plan to supercharge investment in renewable , include with the creation of GB Energy . however , we be see an abject failure by this Conservative Government to develop renewable . what do we see on renewable energy in the King ' s Speech ? the Government be go to " seek to attract " investment in renewable . that go well in the Celtic sea offshore energy auction , didn ' t it ? not a single bid be make because the Government fail to respond to the company ' point out that inflation be drive up cost . the Republic of Ireland recognise the problem and get a successful auction ; we get not one single bid , but it get a successful auction . the Government have to do well than just try to attract investment . of course , that come on top of year of ban the development of onshore wind in England and a failure to lift that ban properly ; stall on solar ; shilly - shallye and then cancel the electrification of the south Wales mainline to Swansea ; and long wait for connection to the grid . in contrast , Labour have a plan to supercharge investment in renewable . time be of the essence , and I urge the Government to do much more to develop renewable , to develop an industrial strategy and to invest . that would give company real incentive and the certainty that they need to invest in green job in the UK . sadly , this Government ' s record be abysmal , which be why we desperately need a change and the hope that a Labour Government could bring by invest in the job of the future , fast - track the development of renewable , improve our NHS , increase opportunity for our young people and make our street safe . that be why I urge the Prime Minister to think again about his king ' s Speech and to put more in it to provide the investment that we need . if he can not do that , we need change and we need an election as soon as possible . rise — Order . I remind colleague that , as it say in the " Rules of behaviour and courtesy in the House of Commons " , it be customary to stay for at least two speech after you have speak . particularly if people have make quite a long speech , I would expect they to be here to hear what other have to say . I certainly welcome this King ' s Speech , particularly because at the end of the King ' s Speech we see — I see a former Lord Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Chris Grayling ) , look at I with a beady eye — the reintroduction of an important tradition : the Lord Chancellor go backwards down the stair , rather than the modern innovation that we have be infect with in recent year of the Lord Chancellor turn his back on his sovereign . so we have one occasion when the Tories , after 13 year of Government , have at last turn the clock back . Evelyn Waugh complain that in all his life the Tories have never turn the clock back , but we now have one good example . in the King ' s Speech , we also have an opportunity for growth . I endorse every word say by my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) on growth , the need for growth and the need for we not to treat the withdrawal from quantitative easing in the way the Bank of England be do it , which be insanity . the man in white coat , who be once call upon by John Major , could be send in a different direction on this issue . two key part of growth be set out in his Majesty ' s Gracious Speech . the first be in the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership and in have legislation for that . free trade be the real opportunity to make this country and the world rich . my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) point out that , since 1990 , the growth in free trade have have a phenomenal effect in reduce absolute poverty from 36 % of the globe ' s population to 9 . 2 % — from about 1 . 9 billion people to seven hundred and something million people . that phenomenal success in prosperity come from free trade . with the cptpp , we have the opportunity to push that far , but we should go far still . we should get rid of tariff and barrier to trade unilaterally , because open up our market be beneficial for our consumer . protectionism be always the provider of the port for vested interest , but free trade be to the advantage of consumer and individual . so yes , the Government be go in the right direction and the King ' s Speech be go in the right direction , but I would encourage his Majesty ' s Government to go far , as I would on the issue of use the Brexit opportunity . we have a chance to become a light - touch regulated economy that can be efficient and competitive . again , we should be challenge vest interest . many member will remember that , when the REACH regulation come in , the chemical industry be up in arm , say " these be terrible , awful european innovation . we don ' t want they , they be costly , they be ghastly . " then industry say , " oh , these regulation be marvellous because they keep out any competitor . " we want to change thing like the REACH regulation , so that we recognise regulator around the world that provide a similar level of safety , rather than allow regulation to be use as a means of covert protectionism . that be the challenge for this Government . use these advantage be mention in the King ' s Speech ; we need to use they aggressively . I have an interest in financial service , declare in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , but these advantage should be use particularly in financial service , where we should restore our position as one of the most competitive area in the world . we should be use they in agriculture to take the burden off the back of our farmer because , when I advocate free trade , it be only fair that the quid pro quo be that we allow those who produce to do so in an easy way — in a way that take burden off their back . talk of take burden off back , there be a part of the King ' s Speech that be essential , but do not go far enough . a few week ago , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister make an excellent speech about lift some of the net zero burden and some of that will be come forward to this House in the come month , but it be nothing like enough . on the motor car issue , most of the regulation , as I think my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) point out , will remain and will still make it hard for people to buy car ; they will make it more expensive . that be a burden on british people . we want to be get rid of thing such as that . we do not want to force people to do thing ; we want the technology to be there first so that they want to do it . no one have to regulate to make people give up the horse and carriage and move to the motor car — the horseless carriage , as I use to call it — even though his Majesty come to Parliament in a horse and carriage . they do so not because of a regulation or a penalty , but because market force mean that we favour the motor car . if an electric motor car be so good , people will buy it ; if it be not so good , they will stick to petrol — I be certainly go to stick to petrol for the time be . do my right hon . friend agree that it do not work in its own term ? if somebody get an electric vehicle today and go home and plug it in , they will have to burn more gas in a gas power station , because there will not suddenly be more renewable power to recharge that car . my right hon . friend be absolutely right but at least , thank to this King ' s Speech , it may be a little bit more british gas that we will be get out , and that of course should be push far . there have be some talk that the proposal have be water down . well , they should be water back up again , so that we get as much out of the North sea as we possibly can . it be in our economic interest and our environmental interest because the emission be low when we use domestically produce resource . but , as I say , we have to go far . we have hear the news about our steel industry . the reason our steel industry be be change , so that we will have no pure steel manufacturing , be because of government policy . it be because of the emission trading scheme . it be because of have the third most expensive electricity cost in the world . it be about put burden on industry that make it impossible for it to operate and this utterly bogus view that , if something be make in China , the emission be chinese and , if it be make in the UK , they be british emission , even if the steel be use for exactly the same purpose . this be the ridiculous thing about Drax . the chip put into the Drax machine count as canadian emission even though they be burn in the UK . this be barmy in wonderland stuff . we need to be put british industry first , and not use silly statistic — legerdemain of carbon emission — to try to pretend that we be do something that we be not . this tie in with the growth agenda . let we look at what we have already achieve . since 1990 , the UK have reduce emission by 44 . 1 % , the United States have reduce emission by 2 . 6 % , and the People ' s Republic of China , our red friend , have increase emission by 426 . 5 % . we have do our bit . our economic growth have be low in that period than it otherwise would have be because we have force upon ourselves the high cost of energy , which the Americans and the Chinese have not do . therefore , we need a growth strategy with cheap energy , but there be problem that we have to deal with . there be a bit about enforce the rule against the small boat , but we have to go far than that . we be not build enough house , as the Leader of the opposition point out . we be not build the infrastructure for 606 , 000 net migrant to come to this country a year , and we be find , as we see there be trouble on our street , possibly even on Armistice Day and Remembrance Sunday , that the integration that we hope we have in this country be not as deep as we think it be . that be something that should concern we . I think that we could be very proud of the integration that we have in this country and the good relation , and we want to keep those , and the way to keep they be to control migration and to have it at level that allow for integration to take place . therefore , I be disappointed that we be still focus on illegal flow . I be afraid we be catch up in the HMT - OBR understanding of migration that be wrong because it focus on total gdp , rather than GDP per capita . we be actually make ourselves poor as a nation by the excess of migration that we be have , and we be risk what I might call the comfort of the nation — the ease with which we all live together — by allow the argument of country away from the United Kingdom to be hear on the street of the United Kingdom , which be unwelcome . we want a growth strategy , we want cheap energy , we want to control migration , but we do not want to abandon our ancient liberty . I be not plan to mention this , but I be inspire by my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden , who be stand at the Bar of the House , when he talk about warrantless entry . if the police always get thing right , we might think that be a good idea , but over the last few year we have have any number of problem of police behaviour and police leadership . I say that cautiously , and I concentrate on leadership because when we go around this Palace , we speak to as fine a body of man and woman as we could hope to meet , who keep we safe every day , and whenever I meet constable in North East Somerset , I find exactly the same — fine , brave people who look after we . but their leadership , we must acknowledge , have be pretty poor , and this seem to I not the time to give they a power that go against one of our most ancient constitutional safeguard . I know that there be a rule in this House that discourage tedious repetition , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I hope I can assume that the House be not pay sufficient attention in March 1763 to a comment make by our old friend Pitt the elder , because he say : " the poor man may in his cottage bid defiance to all the force of the Crown . it may be frail — its roof may shake — the wind may blow through it — the storm may enter — the rain may enter — but the King of England can not enter ! — all his force dare not cross the threshold of the ruin tenement ! " that be such an important liberty . it do not mean that the police can not run in after someone if they be catch in the act , but it mean that if they be to come through someone ' s door , they need evidence and a warrant . it be a foundation of our liberty , and I do not think a King ' s Speech , as a prelude to a manifesto , be a place in which to water down our ancient liberty . here we be in the 14th year of consecutive Tory - lead government that have fail on everything from the economy to immigration . the number of child live in poverty have soar , the gap between the rich and poor have continue to widen , the number of people homeless have increase and social housing construction have all but collapse . family , business and industry alike have be cripple by the huge hike in energy price and some of the high interest rate in the western world . our NHS have be devastate through political mismanagement . waiting list be lengthen and people be struggle to get a GP appointment or to see a dentist . health inequality remain a blight on our community , and many be desperate to access mental health service but can not . our asylum system be break , with a never - end backlog of claim still to be hear . class size in school have increase as teacher leave the profession . serious crime and antisocial behaviour blight our community as police number remain well below the level of 10 year ago . the majority of people in our country know that life for they have get bad , not well , since 2010 . add to that the disgusting rhetoric from Ministers and other on immigration , protest , homelessness , benefit and unemployment , and we know our country be in a bad place . in my speech , I plan to concentrate on poverty , health and inequality , crime and policing , and industry and growth , but first I must get the compliment out of the way . I be delighted at the decision to increase annually the age at which people can buy cigarette , which cost our NHS billion . as vice chair of the APPG on smoking and health , I appeal to the Government to back up that policy with the resource need to tackle the illegal trade and , more importantly , to invest in public health measure to help people quit and to stop young people start . it need not cost they a penny — they can make the polluter pay by place a levy on the tobacco company , who know they can afford it . I welcome , too , the reference to the sale and management of vape . anything that can stop child take up that habit have get to be good . the north - east have have the steep regional rise in child poverty in the UK . in Stockton North , almost 7 , 000 be live below the poverty line . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation say that 1 . 8 million household — that is 3 . 8 million people — have experience destitution in 2022 . a million of those people be child ; some be homeless . we need to do so much more on poverty and homelessness . the covid pandemic show we that we do not have to have rough sleeper , but the Government lack the ambition to sort that out now . instead , we have a Home Secretary who characterise homelessness as a " lifestyle choice " . the homelessness charity Crisis say that it be cause by a lack of affordable housing , poverty and unemployment ; people leave prison , care or the force with no home to go to ; or woman escape violent or abusive relationship . as the cold winter night approach and a grow number of people struggle to afford the most basic physical need to stay warm , dry , clean and fed , I be appal that the Government have not take the opportunity to tackle that crisis . nor be there anything in the Government ' s programme to tackle the crisis in our NHS , with the most basic care simply not available and many waiting list get long . that mean that people be suffer , many with excruciating pain . People be anxious about when they will get their operation . family member be beside themselves know that their love one may not get the treatment they need before it be too late . I know that the Government will troop out the usual excuse — the pandemic , and doctor and nurse strike — but they do not stack up . the covid inquiry have demonstrate not only a lack of preparation and incompetence by Ministers , but a " couldn ' t care less " attitude from the Prime Minister of the day , and a Health Secretary who think that he should have the right to say who live or die . that failure continue today , nowhere more so than in Stockton . we be get a diagnostic centre , which I welcome , but we actually need a 21st - century hospital . let I address primary care . my constituent tell I that , despite be tell of the importance of see a dentist after suffer multiple miscarriage , she have be struggle to see a dentist for over three year . she have search within a 50 - mile radius to no avail . she be at a loss as to how she be suppose to get any help when private practice be on the rise and NHS provider be face recruitment problem . what be my constituent to do ? the North East and North Cumbria integrate care board say she should continue contact her local practice to ask to be put on the waiting list — that be not good enough . last year , 1 , 095 people be force to attend a & E at both North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust and South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust because of dental decay — 885 be unable to get an NHS dental appointment for dental abscess cause by tooth decay , and 210 for dental cavity . the inadequate system for get a GP appointment be also a cause for despair . one constituent tell I of her struggle to get either a face - to - face or phone appointment for the past two week — neither be available . she be in need of a prescribed medicine . she have try to use eConsult , but the system be only available after 1 pm . she log on at exactly 1 pm several time , only to receive a message advise of no availability and say to try again tomorrow . another constituent have tonsillitis a few week ago and find it impossible to get an appointment . she say the practice procedure be to phone up at 8 . 30 be to make an appointment . she try , but at 8 . 35 be she be tell that all appointment be go , and that she would need to phone 111 or go to urgent care . many of my constituent be concerned about mental health service and support for people with dementia . they ask I to raise the concern raise by the Alzheimer ' s Society and to press the Government for change . sadly , no change be indicate today . I will never forget the sight of two thug attack the home of a rival — actually , it be the home of the rival ' s ex - girlfriend — near Stockton town centre . while one smash in the window , the other deploy a chainsaw to cut his way through the door . who know the fear that that woman feel ? sadly , serious crime of that nature be quite commonplace . the police do their good , but they be few in number and have increase responsibility . crime be on the rise : the number of police - record crime in Cleveland in the year 2022 - 23 be 83 , 890 — a 9 % increase on the previous year , when the number of crime record nationally go up by only 2 % . the substantial rise be in violent crime , which also rise by 9 % in Cleveland to 31 , 497 . Cleveland record 25 % more residential burglary than in the previous year , and it have be report that the number of home burglary in Stockton have shoot up by 42 % . base on the crime survey , the Office for National Statistics estimate that , in Cleveland , almost 45 % of people over 16 have experience or witness antisocial behaviour in the last year , compare with 34 % nationally . for sexual offence case be hear at Teesside Crown court , the average time from receipt to completion be 93 week , compare with a 59 - week national average . that be not justice . against that backdrop , we be see a failure by the Cleveland police and crime commissioner to recruit more police . the number of male officer have decrease since 2010 across the board . the number of constable be down by 242 , sergeant by 68 and special constable by 99 . there have , however , be a growth in the number of woman police officer . finally , on industry and growth , I welcome this week ' s announcement by British Steel of its plan to invest in Teesside , which have both an amazing industrial heritage — iron ore from the Cleveland hill lead to the foundation of our once extensive steelmaking industry — and a local workforce that be equip with the skill and expertise need to grow our local steelmaking base once more . establish an electric arc furnace in Teesside be a good step forward , but we need much more if we be to reverse the industrial sabotage of the Conservatives , who abandon steelmaking in Teesside in 2015 , and if we be to create more than a fraction of the job that be lose as a result of their disastrous decision making — more than 3 , 000 job be lose at that time . we need to be more ambitious , and the investment need to be part of a sustainable industrial strategy that put clean , green steelmaking at its heart . several year ago , we be promise ten of thousand of job at the Teesworks site . few have so far materialise and , because of secrecy and Tory politician and other hide behind company law , we can not find out what be guarantee to happen and what be a stream of hopeful promise . that be why I would like the Government to come up with a plan to extend the provision of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 to all board , company and organisation that spend public money . maybe that would help we to find out how the bulk of the major asset at the Teesworks site and Teesside airport end up in the hand of two private company , and where the ten of million spend subsidise the airport actually go . we could have the bright future that the Government talk about , we could see our health service restore to health , we could see transparency in the way Government agency and company do business , we could see a grow economy , we could see people get a gp or dental appointment , and we could see million of people lift out of poverty , but not with this lot . it be time for a general election . I rise for the first and last time to speak in a King ' s Speech debate in this House . it be a moment of big change for we all . the fact that it be all too tempting to start talk about the Queen ' s Speech be just a sign of how used we be to have the late queen after her 70 year of incredible service to this country . it be a big year for her son in take over as King , and in deliver his first king ' s Speech . although he have an incredibly hard act to follow , I pay tribute to he for the way in which he have take up his responsibility , for his first year in his position , and for what he have do today in start the new parliamentary session . he have clearly already show himself to be a monarch we can be proud of . there be a number of point in the King ' s Speech that I will pick up on . first , I echo the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) about the importance of sign up to the CPTPP and the provision in the King ' s Speech for do that . he be absolutely right to highlight the benefit of free trade for people around the world . it be a matter of deep distress to those of we who believe in free trade that so many country seem to be take a step away from it . in the end , that will not lead to a more prosperous world ; it will not lead to few people be in poverty . if we revert to a world of tariff , protectionism and subsidy , we will end up in a position where the world be a poor place , not a rich place . I see our join the cptpp as a step in this country ' s commitment towards the free trade environment that be need around the world . it be , as my right hon . Friend say , a crucial part of the world for future economic growth . we be right to seek partnership there , to do business there and to work closely with country that be , after all , our friend . on energy , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset mention the Drax power station and , in do so , draw attention to a really important issue for this country . the Government be absolutely right to seek to continue to exploit oil and gas from the North sea . the Climate Change Committee itself expect we to still need significant amount by 2050 , so why on earth be it well for this country to ship oil and gas from the middle east in large tanker with high emission than simply produce it off the coast of Scotland , create and protect job in Scotland ? it baffle I as to why the SNP seem keen to destroy job in Scotland , but it be . at the same time , we see the continue shipping and burning of vast amount of timber from North America as be somehow a renewable source of energy . in some respect , biomaterial can be and be a renewal source of energy , but I have increase misgiving about the sheer volume of deforestation in the forest of the northern part of the world to generate the amount of energy that come from the Drax power station . over the next two or three year , as we move to the point where its contract for difference be to be review , we have to ask , be this really the right thing to do ? be we absolutely certain that it be come from sustainable source and that the forest be cut down be be replant and harvest properly ? I have my question . before we continue to develop biomass in this country , we have to ask some hard question about whether it be the right thing to do . I welcome the provision on leasehold and freehold in the King ' s Speech . I have see example in my constituency of development company and construction company behave in way that be , frankly , among the bad practice in capitalism , exploit those who have save to buy their own home and have end up just about able to afford they . these people take pride in what they have , and then a few month or year later , the developer look to put up the cost of not have the freehold — they put up the cost of the leasehold . my view be straightforward : if someone buy a house , it should be freehold . the application of leasehold tenure to what would in the past have be freehold home be an unacceptable practice . it should stop , and I be very pleased that it be go to stop as a result of this King ' s Speech and the legislation that lie ahead , which I hope will have support on both side of the House . I would like to talk about a couple of thing on which I want to see action in the session ahead through secondary legislation and change to the Government ' s approach . the first be in relation to the measure that be put in place in the Environment Act 2021 , 18 month ago , deal with the issue of deforestation around the world . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on global deforestation . Deforestation be one of the great environmental challenge for our planet . we be lose forest at a rate of knot . it have a huge impact on biodiversity and on carbon emission . it have to stop and to be reverse . we be pioneer , through the Environment Act , in say that we will take practical action to require company that deal in forest risk product to do proper due diligence , to ensure that those product be not come from area that have be illegally deforest . that be the right thing to do . it be a pathfinding piece of legislation and a sign of this Government ' s commitment on the issue of biodiversity and the environment . however , the secondary legislation that underpin the Environment Act have yet to materialise . it be complicated to do , and I know that official be work hard to identify the right way to do it , but this have to happen before the general election . we need to have adequate measure in place on product such as palm oil and soy to ensure that we be not import those product from area of illegal deforestation . I ask those on the Front Bench to use all their effort to ensure that that secondary legislation come forward soon . there be a flipside to the issue , which be what we do about financial service and institution that invest in company that be involve in illegal deforestation . we have some good debate last summer , when consider the Financial Services and Markets Bill , about the need to extend the due diligence provision to the financial service sector . the Government make some positive noise and agree to start a consultation process to look at how that could be do . I hope we will see tangible progress during this session , and potentially even legislation come forward when there be a Finance Bill off the back of the autumn statement . these change be need , because the issue of illegal deforestation be not simply about the product themselves ; it be about the finance that support the company that exploit those part of the world . I want to see proper measure in place . the financial service sector already do due diligence on the investment it make and the loan it provide , but I want to see it insert into that due diligence process the knowledge that the company it be lend to are not simply use that money to support the cutting down of rainforest . I thank my right hon . friend — or , rather , the right hon . member — for give way . he be make some very important point on due diligence and the need to ensure that consumer and company know where they be invest and the impact of that on people who live in illegally deforest area . do he agree that City investor and company be cry out for this secondary legislation to be in place as well ? absolutely , and I hope the hon . member do see I as her friend , because she and I co - chair the APPG on global deforestation until she , sadly , have to give up the role ; I congratulate she on her recent elevation on the Opposition Front Bench . I agree with she : there be demand from investor around the world and from consumer . this be the right thing to do . I speak as a Conservative who believe passionately in free trade and free market , but we be also conservative with a small c , and we have always be conservative who believe in look after the natural environment and ensure that we have the right balance and do not destroy the natural world . it be really important that we have in place the check and balance to ensure that the rogue operation that sadly exist around the world can not simply tap into financial source that enable they to do their business . there be one other change that I want to see happen , or at least see significant progress on , during this session , and that be around sustainable aviation fuel . we be go to see the aviation industry change to move towards a low - emission environment . we be already see it , in fact , with the arrival of new engine technology that reduce fuel use and so forth . the development of aviation fuel be crucial if we be to see the step change that the Government in this country and government around the world be ask for from the aviation sector . sustainable aviation fuel be now require by law in this country to play an increase part in the future of our aviation sector . I very much believe — and I have listen to comment make on both side of the House — that we need to produce sustainable aviation fuel in the United Kingdom , and we need to create a regulatory environment which enable that to happen . we have some good discussion in the latter stage of the last session . the Government have start a process that I hope will lead to the incentive , support and structure that those emerge market in sustainable aviation fuel will need , but we need to see further progress in this session , so that by the time of the election we have a clear path forward to deliver in this country a product that will be essential to what be still one of our big and most important business sector . there be a lot to do . we have a year until an election , and I listen to what the Prime Minister say about what we can achieve in a year — assume it be a year . I hear a lot in the King ' s Speech that will make a difference to this country , but there be a lot that we need to change and a lot we need to get on with , and the work start now . I would like to send my good wish to the King on the first occasion of his Gracious Speech . it can not have be an easy thing to do . we have to remember that it follow the long reign of his mother , Queen Elizabeth II . there will have be mixed emotion today , and it be important to recognise that ; it be not just a job . it have be interesting listen to the speech today . I have find myself agree with member I do not always agree with . the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) make some important point on net zero , and I agree entirely with the right hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Chris Grayling ) on the secondary legislation around deforestation . but the debate on the Humble Address have already signal the difference between the two side of this House . on our side , we have a Labour party that be a Government in wait , with plan to cut the cost of living , improve education once and for all , and get Britain build again . on the other side , we have a Government who have simply run out of idea . they have nothing new to offer to the people of Sunderland or to the country . my constituent expect the Government to finally understand the damage they have cause up and down the country — the damage they have do to our community because of a lack of investment , to education through lack of care , and to household budget as the country still reel from the disastrous mini - Budget of the previous Prime Minister . it be clear that the Government do not understand that . this be an opportunity for they to admit that they have get it wrong and let the country down , but they do not . there be a total absence of a plan in the King ' s Speech . there be an absence of idea and an absence of care — for the electorate , for the economy , and for the people of Sunderland . the city I represent be a thriving place , thank to the work of local people and the city council . it have incredible new investment plan to regenerate the city , and it be full of people who work hard to provide for their family . but if we look at the situation that Sunderland be in thank to this Government , we see that the total school block allocation since 2015 and fund for the local council since 2010 be down , and child poverty and central Government taxis be up . what do people get in return for the high tax burden in 70 year ? they get crumble school , rampant inflation and a Prime Minister who prefer to take a helicopter around the country to travel on public transport . I agree with the Prime Minister that the public transport system be woeful and creak at the seam , but it be his party and his government who break it . while the King ' s Speech rekindle the idea of Network North , I be not sure how far north that go , and whether it extend to Sunderland , which I represent . we know that the Government do not care about northern transport . they decide to cancel HS2 and then announce plan that include project that have be complete , mainly in the south , with a flip - flop on the Leamside line — it be in , then two hour later it be out — although that project would have make a real economic difference to the north - east region . there be a total misunderstanding of the transport system , and we see the Government ' s real agenda . today , we have see the introduction of long - trail legislation such as the Media Bill . I engage in pre - legislative scrutiny of the draft Media Bill as a member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . reform of the medium landscape in this country be long overdue . the importance and prominence of public service broadcaster like the BBC , ITV and Channel 4 — institution that produce great british content and vital skill training for our next generation — must be protect , and I be glad that legislation have be introduce that bring we close to where we need to be . finally , I welcome the announcement of a football regulator , which be a matter of concern to people in Sunderland and around the country . Sunderland be a great footballe city that have produce inspirational star such as Jill Scott and great programme such as " Sunderland ' Til I die " , which be base on our love of football and produce by the incredible Fulwell 73 . the fanbase and the city care about sustain the game for future generation and ensure that the financial playing field be legitimate and fair . the Government have have ample time to formulate a new system since the publication of the very , very good crouch review , and I be worried that there have be many delay . I be glad that the proposal have be introduce , and I can assure football fan that if there be any more delay and the Government fail to bring in a football regulator , a future Labour Government will act and introduce one . I also welcome leasehold reform . it be quite clear that the Government ' s plan do not go far enough to fully protect homeowner , but I be pleased that they have take action . after the conservative mortgage rate hike and a total failure to build new home , the Government be no long on the side of homeowner , but the Labour party be . although I welcome some measure in the King ' s Speech , I be extremely concerned about the fact that the Government have bring back the Economic Activities of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , which be design to put undue control on public body and limit their ability to express their belief . this be a time when language and action matter — we have hear a lot about the horror that be unfold in the middle east ; about the horror inflict on israeli citizen by Hamas ; and about the ten of thousand of innocent Palestinians who have die in the horror unfolding in Gaza — and there have never be a more sensitive time in the middle east , so to introduce the Bill at this moment show a lack of sensitivity by the Government . it be add fuel to the fire , and it be not sensible to introduce it at this time . the absence of measure to ban conversion therapy be extremely alarming , and be a sign of the Prime Minister ' s inability to stand up to his Back Benchers — a weak Prime Minister at a time when we need the very opposite . what be clear today , and what have become increasingly clear over the past few year , be that the conservative party be out of idea . they do not know how to solve the problem that they have cause , and they be make the public pay for their mistake . the King ' s Speech be an opportunity to introduce legislation to improve the life of ordinary people , to do something to bring down the cost of living , and finally to act to increase the hope , aspiration and life chance of our young people . yet again , the Government have fail to do so . today ' s speech by his Majesty have raise many question about the Government ' s priority , but it have answer three question definitively . can people really say they be well off after 13 year of Conservative Government than they be in 2010 ? no . do the King ' s Speech give they any hope whatsoever that the Government know what they be do to the life of work people up and down this country ? no . do this country need a general election to kick out the Conservatives ? an emphatic yes . labour have a plan to fix the economy ; the Conservatives be happy to let the economy flounder . the people of my constituency of Sunderland Central and the people of this country deserve so much more . I would like to begin by highlight my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which include some shareholding and a long - leasehold flat let to tenant . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Sir Robert Goodwill ) on the wonderful start that they provide for the debate . they both perform brilliantly , but I want to single out my right hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby . we first meet many year ago in 1999 , when we be candidate in the european election . he be a truly great parliamentarian , and he have always be a very good , kind and wise friend to I . there be much to welcome in an ambitious and important set of legislative proposal in the first king ' s Speech for 70 year . for example , the Data Protection and Digital Information ( no . 2 ) Bill will modernise datum regulation so that firm can grow while protect privacy and ensure that people can exert control over information hold about they . Brexit make that kind of regulatory reform possible . I advocate it as part of the work do by the Taskforce on Innovation , Growth and Regulatory Reform . like my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , I think that this be just the beginning and that we need to go far , as it be crucial to our become more competitive and raise living standard . the carry - over of the anti - boycott Bill be welcome . single out Israel for boycott by council be divisive and unjustified . the boycott , divestment and sanction movement have drive increase in antisemitism , so I welcome the continuation of that Bill . I be really pleased to see progress on leasehold reform , which be important to a number of my constituent who have suffer distress , anxiety and financial hardship as a result of the current system . I welcome the fact that the proposal announce today will make it cheap and easy for leaseholder to extend their lease . this be a complex area , and we do need to take care to avoid unintended consequence that could jeopardise investment or unfairly penalise the fund on which so many people ' s retirement income depend and which they may well have invest in freehold interest . however , I feel that , with careful scrutiny in Parliament , we can deliver reform that work for leaseholder and tackle the abuse that have occur . the ban on sell new house on a leasehold basis be absolutely right , and I also welcome the additional protection and transparency measure for leaseholder , but constituent tell I that the right they already have to challenge unreasonable charge be cumbersome and expensive to operate and it can feel like a very unequal struggle with the freeholder . I hope Ministers will bear in mind that the measure they be announce today will work only if leaseholder can actually use the new right they be be grant . with that in mind , scrap the presumption that leaseholder pay freeholder legal cost when they challenge poor practice be a much need change , and I welcome that aspect of today ' s announcement . another landmark measure in this King ' s Speech be the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which be continue its progress . it be absolutely right that we legislate to help renter and encourage more stable and long - term tenancy . we also need to remember that landlord play a crucial role as housing provider . we should absolutely be tough on bad landlord , but we do not want to end up unfairly penalise the whole sector when a majority of landlord look after their tenant and their property , and act responsibly . sadly , a number of landlord be already leave the sector and sell their property . we must ensure that we do not inadvertently intensify that and jeopardise the good rental stock available . key to that be ensure that the removal of section 21 be accompany by a major improvement in the way the court system operate . my constituent Paul Shamplina , the founder of the solicitor firm Landlord Action , believe that delay be bad than he have experience in his 33 year in the sector . he have tell I of three bailiff application with Willesden court that have take six month to be issue . in Swindon , it take three month to send a notice of issue for a basic N5B claim , and Central London county court take seven month to appoint a bailiff and grant transfer to the High Court for enforcement . other constituent have tell I about bailiff delay in remove tenant who have not pay rent for many month . the Minister for the court — the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) — assure I that the court be work flat out , that 1 , 000 new judge have be recruit and that digitisation be under way . that be welcome , but we need to make progress to ensure that our court be work as efficiently as possible . action against crime be another crucial element of the programme in the Gracious Speech . concern about crime be one of the issue raise most often with I on the doorstep in Chipping Barnet . in particular , I find it shock that in modern Britain the jewish community have such great fear for their security . the antisemitism and hate crime on display at recent mass protest have be both frightening and unacceptable . I have appeal directly to Sir Mark Rowley , the head of the Met , to apply the full force of the law against any law break at these protest . I be one of the signatory to a letter from conservative mp and Assembly Members ask last week that the protest plan for Armistice Day on Saturday do not go ahead . it would seem to be both insensitive and disrespectful to have such a protest on 11 November . turn to police more widely , the Conservatives have deliver on our pledge of 20 , 000 additional police officer . that mean the Met have more uniformed officer than at any time in its history . it could actually have have 1 , 000 more , and it be a regret that it fall short of its recruitment target . I be afraid that that be just one of a significant number of failure on police by London ' s Mayor , Sadiq Khan , who be the police and crime commissioner for London . in his seven year in office , we have see the Met in crisis and poor clear - up rate for offence such as burglary , car crime and shoplifting . these be not victimless crime , and they need to be take seriously . of course , we also need a tough approach on antisocial behaviour . one thing that I be disappointed be not in the King ' s Speech be a Bill to ban the import of trophy hunt from endangered animal . such legislation have strong support , but the private Member ' s Bill — the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill — have be block in the House of Lords . the ban be a manifesto commitment . we must do this , and I call on Ministers to bring forward such a Bill . lastly , I want to welcome the Bill to ban the live export of animal for slaughter and fattening . I have campaign for two decade for that ban . this trade lead to serious and unnecessary animal suffer both on the long journey and in destination country that have low standard of animal welfare than we do . these export would have be ban year ago if that have not be forbid by single market rule . although no export have take place in recent month , there be as yet no law to stop they start again . I regret the demise of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , though I appreciate that there be issue and problem with amendment , but now that we have a dedicated Bill to end this trade once and for all , let we get on with it . this Conservative Government have lead the way on many animal welfare matter . ban live export would be a historic step towards a more compassionate and kind treatment of animal . it be a benefit from Brexit , and I urge the House to support the Bill when it come forward . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , and indeed to be call to speak on the King ' s Speech . it be probably worth put it into context : this be 13 year into a Tory Government , but there be a new Prime Minister , and we know that we be go to be face a general election at some point over the next few month . give those circumstance , where be the vision and where be the hope ? they be sadly lack from this King ' s Speech . we should remember that each and every one of we who have be send to this House be here , individually and collectively , to show responsibility and leadership , and to do that at time of challenge both at home and abroad . I be glad that so many member have make reference both to Ukraine and to the situation in the middle east . we should remember every single day the responsibility that we have to our friend in Ukraine . we should recognise the unity of purpose we have have across this House in relation to those who be in Ukraine , those who be fight on the frontline and those who have give so much to defend their freedom and democracy . with everything else that be go on , we need to remain absolutely resolute in relation to the people in that country , and to recognise that , for however long it take , we stand with President Zelensky and the people of Ukraine and that that illegal invasion have to be defeat . Putin can never win , and whether it be today , tomorrow or after the next election , that resolve to support Ukraine must remain . of course , much of the attention over the past few week have rightly be on the appalling event that unfold in Israel on 7 October . it be right that each and every one of we in this House should call out that act of terrorism , that attack on the people of Israel that take place , and that slaughter of man , woman and child . yes , we call out Hamas as the terrorist organisation it be , and yes , Hamas must be destroy — it must be defeat — but we also need to recognise that , sadly , what we have see over the past few week be the inhumane slaughter not just of the Israelis , but of those who live in Gaza and be casualty of a war that be not of their making . we must remember the responsibility that we have , yes , to support Israel , but also , yes , to support those who desire peace on the palestinian side . we must recognise that for far too long many of we right across this Chamber have be call for a two - state solution . to get to that prize , where Israelis and Palestinians can live in peace together , yes , we must ensure that those who be hold hostage by Hamas be return to their family and love one , but we must also recognise that we can not have the slaughter of innocent civilian — the child who have give their life . all of we across these island , and across the western world , have a responsibility to ensure that the case for a humanitarian solution to protect innocent life must be at the forefront of our mind . the international situation must be front and centre , but we must also think about the circumstance that all our people face across these island . the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Mr Davis ) go through some of the major geopolitical event that have take place over the past 25 to 30 year . one event that have not be reflect on today , but that have a huge influence on we , be the financial crisis of 2008 . rightly , we have the quantitative ease programme that have be reflect on by many member , but the big mistake make in the United Kingdom be the disconnect between monetary and fiscal policy . in particular , the poor have pay the price for the failure of financial market , and the austerity that we have live with in the period since then . we must reflect on the fact that the decade that have pass be the first decade in 200 year in which people have become poor in real term and real wage have decline . when we think about the pressure on our public service today , we rightly talk about the debt that we have , and a desire to get that down . we hear in the King ' s Speech about the desire for economic growth . I welcome that . of course we must deliver sustainable economic growth , but I say to colleague on the Government Benches , where be the plan ? where be the concrete plan to drive investment into the economy , to drive up productivity and living standard , to make people wealthy , and to deliver the tax receipt that allow we to invest in our public service ? frankly , there be no detail ; there be nothing of any substance . that have to be see in context of the fact that on a relative basis in the world , the UK have be go backwards . let we not forget that the UK be no long a major manufacturing economy . it be a trading economy , and that fact , together with the damage that be do to we by Brexit and the removal of our large trading partner , be something we should reflect on . I want to give the Government some credit , perhaps unusually — I see some friend on the Government Benches smile at I — because there be certain thing that the Government be good at . they be very good at soundbite : long - term economic plan , northern powerhouse , level up , get Brexit do . we can go through those , and other — well together . well together — don ' t start I on that one . I hear High Speed 2 mention as well . to be serious for a second , those slogan have be roll out in election campaign , and they have seduce people perhaps to vote for the Conservatives and put they into power . but as we would say in certain part of Scotland , it ' s all fur coat and nae knicker . the result be that these 200 year have come to an end with a fall in real living standard . there be an absence of confidence in the economy to drive investment , and that be before we get to the cost of living crisis . we need investment , we need growth , and we need it for a purpose . we need to show the people of this country that we can get through this economic crisis . I ask the Government where the plan be , and I want to refer to some of the work that the SNP Westminster group have do over the past year . we have publish two paper , and I commend they both to colleague . one be " the Economic Opportunity for Scotland from renewable Energy and Green Technology " , and the other be the " Roadmap for a Scottish Green Industrial Strategy " . we have do the hard work in term of where opportunity for growth , prosperity and job will come from . we have hear a lot today about oil and gas , but the Government must be careful about the signalling that be take place . whether they like it or not , we have to get to net zero , whether we be talk about Scotland ' s aspiration of 2045 , or Westminster and 2050 . we need to drive that investment in green energy to come to this country . in response to the King ' s Speech , the Institute for Public Policy Research say : " by far the good way to improve energy security , cut bill and support worker be through invest more into renewable . new oil and gas field would only cut fossil fuel import by 2 - 4 % . alternatively , fast renewable rollout would cut they by 12 - 17 % respectively . " that be the reality . we either recognise the importance of drive fast to deliver that green energy revolution , and do so will give we an industrial advantage , or we face the wrong way by prioritise oil and gas , which will not fundamentally make a difference to we or anyone else . let I just expand on that because in the report that I refer to , which be publish last year , we consider the green energy output of Scotland at that point , which be 12 GW . base on what we know from plan that already exist — there be no fantasy and I challenge anybody to refute the number we have publish — in Scotland alone we can increase our green energy output to 80 GW by 2050 , a fivefold increase . when we start to think about that , we start to think about all sort of thing . how do we create grid connectivity ? some reference be make to that in the King ' s Speech , which I welcome . where be the plan to ensure that we develop the grid capacity we need to deliver that green energy ? for goodness ' sake , let we think about — and let we be honest about — some of the mistake we have make in the past . we never benefit to the full extent from the opportunity for the supply chain in oil and gas , and we certainly have not do that with the first generation of green energy . this be not just about plan on paper to increase green energy production ; it be about how we ensure that we benefit from that . how do we ensure that we have the planning and consent , and that the energy revolution , whether onshore , offshore , wind , tidal , solar , or pump storage , actually happen ? I commend my colleague in the Scottish Government , because just a few week ago it be announce that Sumitomo would be build a cable manufacturing facility in the highland . reference be make early to the opportunity of tidal . we lead the world in tidal energy , but the UK Government have not get behind that to the full extent , and be not think about the fact that we could deliver 15 % of our energy from tidal . this be not just about deliver 15 % of our energy ; we can deliver the investment , deliver the job , and have turbine manufacturing . where be the industrial strategy ? where be the joined up thinking that will lead to the creation of job ? those thing be in our report . I know some reference be make to job in oil and gas . yes , we need a proper transition and to support the worker in the oil and gas industry today , but in that Skilling report we highlight the potential of deliver up to 325 , 000 job . that be the prize , but where be the ambition ? where be the potential ? where be the hope ? how do we drive up living standard ? there be more I could say , but I recognise that other wish to speak so I will stop here . we have a choice in Scotland of two future . the United Kingdom be in long - term relative decline . I be sadden that when I look at my country , the country of Scotland , our relative population in the United Kingdom have decline every decade since 1850 , and I want to change that . the only way we will change that record be if we drive investment into the scottish economy . what an opportunity we have with green energy . so I say to the people of Scotland that there be a choice . we can stay where we be , or we can recognise that if we want to drive up our economy and productivity , and create well pay job and the resource to invest in our public service , then come with we . ultimately , Scotland ' s future will be as an independent country and away from this place . there be not a single mention of Scotland in the King ' s Speech , and people in Scotland need to reflect on that . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) . we do not often agree on issue , but if I may say so , his point about Ukraine be well make , and I certainly echo they . many Ukrainians have settle in Milton Keynes , and I know they remain deeply worried about their love one back in Ukraine and the future of their country , so I be happy to echo the right hon . Gentleman ' s point on that . as Chair of the Transport Committee , I wish to devote the majority of my remark to that subject . before I do , I will touch on a couple of area of particular relevance to my constituency . the first be the proposal in the King ' s Speech for leaseholder reform . my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) make the point very well , and I will not repeat they , but I add one additional point that I hope the propose legislation will capture . we often talk about the unfair level of service charge that leaseholder have to pay , and often think of that in term of the cost for the maintenance of and repair to the brick and mortar . often , however , leaseholder have to pay extortionate service charge for the maintenance of common ground and landscaping . I very much hope that that can be capture as part of the legislation . I very much welcome the focus in the King ' s Speech on keep the United Kingdom at the forefront of global technology development and grow those industry in this country , because that be where I see considerable possibility for growth . Milton Keynes be home to many world - lead company in form of new technology . the world ' s eye be on Bletchley Park in my constituency last week for the global AI summit . I commend the Government on all their work in bring that summit to the UK . the summit be never go to be the end point of the discussion , but the Bletchley declaration be a landmark that will shape the debate for the month and year ahead . I also put on record my thank to Iain Standen , the chief executive of Bletchley Park , and his team for all they do to make it such a success . Milton Keynes take great civic pride in be able to host that session . I do notice , as I enter Bletchley Park last week , that there be a sign on the way in that direct people to the " Digital Ministers Lounge " . I wonder whether that be for our colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and their international colleague or whether Ministers and , indeed , all politician have already be replace by artificial intelligence . I will leave that hang for colleague to wonder whether artificial intelligence will supplant we at some point . on the point of growth , it be a stroke of genius that the Bletchley Park management open up the gift shop . I be tell that sale be buoyant , and the Chancellor can look forward to some additional receipt from that . I will focus my main remark on transport , and there be certainly much to be welcome on that subject in the King ' s Speech . the automated vehicle Bill will certainly be of critical importance . I be delighted that it be be introduce . it be a central recommendation of a recent report from my Committee that the technology have get to the point where if we be to secure further investment in this country , we need to give regulatory certainty to investor . we have be at the forefront of the development of that technology . I be pleased that that certainty will be there and that we can continue to attract investment from around the world . I have just three small additional point to add , and I hope the legislation will capture they . first , the legislation rightly will focus on what we might call " on the road " self - drive vehicle . there be other type of automate vehicle that we need to consider , include pavement robot , which we have in Milton Keynes . we have little robot from Starship Technologies trundle around our street deliver grocery and food , but the company need certainty in regulation if that investment be to continue . if we do not do that , other country will . secondly , on e - scooter , which I know be a controversial subject — we have many trial in town and city around the country — we be at the point where if we be to continue with they , we need certainty . I very much hope that the legislation will capture that . finally , maritime be often an overlooked part of the transport world , but it be critical . in my Committee ' s " Maritime 2050 " report , we note that while the UK have be at the forefront of innovation in marine autonomy , we can not afford to lose momentum . there be always a balance to be strike between innovation and safety . the Department for Transport be consult on this matter , but I hope that it can be expedite and include in the Bill . in my hon . friend ' s talk about autonomous vehicle , he make no mention of train . these vehicle already have advance signal system and they do not need to be steer , because they be on rail . do he think we can make more progress on train — we already have the dockland light railway — to ensure that we can have more reliable train system that be possibly less susceptible to be target by union action ? my right hon . friend make an excellent point , and I take this opportunity to add my congratulation to he on a superb opening speech in the King ' s Speech debate . he be absolutely right that we already have high degree of automation on many of our rail and light rail system . People think nothing of go on a dockland light railway or Victoria line train that be control by computer . in the sky , 95 % of a flight be control by a computer , yet people have justifiable concern about other level of automation in other area . it be important that we strike that balance . I absolutely agree that we should look at all form of automation in the transport world . that bring I on neatly to my second point on transport , which be my pleasant surprise that we have a draft rail reform Bill in the King ' s Speech . the mood music in the sector be not positive . few people expect that the Government would take forward legislation in this area , but I be pleased that they will . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport deliver his Bradshaw lecture early in the year , which be widely applaud in the industry and wide as a way forward for the renaissance of railway in this country , yet people have feel a sense of drift as nothing concrete have happen . if the House will pardon the pun , I hope we can get back on track quickly in give the industry the certainty that it need . I hope that the Government will be able quickly to provide some clarity on the timetable for introduce the draft legislation . I appreciate that there be process that need to be go through , but if my Committee can help in the scrutiny of that draft legislation , I be happy to work with Ministers and the House authority to expedite that , so that we can have the legislation as quickly as possible . there be much consensus within industry on what need to happen . we need an end to the micromanagement that for understandable reason be put in place during the covid period to ensure that service continue , but we be out of that , and we need to let the professional get on with the job that they know well : grow the sector , grow revenue in industry and have great British Railways as a light - touch , guide mind that do not micromanage the sector . of course , much can be do without legislation , but give GBR its legislative status and power over contract making will send a good signal to the industry . finally , colleague have touch on the importance of improve grid connection . that be absolutely right in the transport world . it be easy to think of transport as a stand - alone policy area , but it touch so many other area . if we be to decarbonise and electrify large part of our transport system , we need to ensure that we have sufficient generating capacity and distribution capacity . otherwise , those ambition will not be realise . there be much to be welcome in the King ' s Speech , particularly on transport . my colleague on the Select Committee and I very much look forward to play our part in take it forward . I , too , pay tribute to his Majesty on deliver his first Gracious Speech as monarch . unfortunately , when we see the scale of the challenge face our country , the programme for government be clearly not up to the task . there be no ambition or vision to get the economy grow again or to break down the barrier that be hold people back . it be one of the long gracious Speeches with the few actual Bills propose . anyone would be forgive for think that the Government have give up . all it seem to contain be stick plaster , gimmick and divisive politic . I fear that the nasty party be well and truly back . I rise to speak in the debate on behalf of my constituent . at this stage in the evening , there may be few of they watch , give the champion league game that be happen tonight , but I be sure they will catch this speech on catch - up . the Government have finally announce some reform to leasehold , yet , despite the wait , they do not go nearly far enough . this weekend , I be out speak to resident in Newcastle Great Park in my constituency , which be one of the large new housing estate in the north - east . some resident have live there for over a decade . they be pay service charge on top of their council tax , yet they be leave with hazardous pavement and road and have be wait for promise community facility for year on end . resident be leave in limbo without any real plan for when their estate will be finish and adopt . child be grow up and leave home before a proper pavement appear outside their house . resident deserve certainty at the very least about the timescale within which adoption should take place . since 2017 , the Government have promise to " legislate to ensure that freeholder who pay charge for the maintenance of … facility on a private or mixed use estate can access equivalent right as leaseholder to challenge the reasonableness of service charge . " that would provide real hope for resident , but it seem that this be yet another miss opportunity . on top of people ' s frustration about the state of their estate , they tell I that they can not get to work or school because of the lack of bus — that be despite the Government cancel the large rail infrastructure project in a century and use some of that money to maintain the £ 2 bus fare subsidy . across Newcastle , we have lose vital bus service that be essential for access local service , visit family and friend , and get to school or work . while the extended £ 2 cap on the bus fare be clearly welcome , it be just not enough . if there be ever an example of a short - term stick - plaster solution , that must be it : capital funding spend on a short - term revenue fix that do not even fix the problem . we have a broken Government preside over a broken system , which be prevent people from get on . resident want a much great say over their bus route , and Labour have a plan to deliver that . what be there in the speech to offer hope that the increase challenge we see in health , transport , education and living standard will be address ? child poverty be up , mortgage cost be up and the strain on family finance be get bad by the day . what happen to level up ? it be not happen round my way . Newcastle and the north - east have outstanding university , yet 40 % of graduate be work in role where a degree be not require . that figure be much high than the national one and even more so when compare to London . we have an incredible pool of talented graduate who be force to either leave the north - east or chase too few graduate job , yet the Government , instead of focus on spread opportunity around the country , be focus on reduce the number of graduate . why should bright , ambitious and hard - work people in the north - east settle for that ? it do not have to be this way . we do not have to settle for this . the north - east , with our proud industrious history and our current untapped potential , could lead the world in skilled job in clean energy power generation , whether in onshore or offshore wind , or electric car manufacturing . we could be invest in skill in the north - east , give employer the tool and resource to ensure that there be a workforce that meet local demand and grow the local , regional and national economy . far from steam ahead , we be actually roll back on previous green commitment . where be the ambition ? where be the hope for a well future ? labour ' s plan to quadruple offshore wind , double onshore wind and triple solar would not only provide those job now but bring energy bill down and secure our future . we could power Newcastle and the north - east and lead the world in offshore wind and electric car manufacturing by deliver infrastructure project rather than dither , delay and more cancellation . Newcastle and the north - east could drive investment and drive economic growth . everyone in the Chamber can feel it : we be in the die ember of this Government . they be tired , out of idea and lack direction . they have give up on level up ; they be more interested in divide community than in make life well for work people . rather than stick - plaster politic , we need a mission - drive Government focus on our national renewal . the country be cry out for change — even the conservative party be — but the answer to that be clearly not more Conservative Government . we have the idea and the ambition for this country , and we be ready to serve . it be time for a Labour Government . I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak in the first king ' s Speech debate for 70 year , not least because of its historic nature but also because the first day of the debate afford an ideal opportunity to speak about whistleblowing and whistleblower ' protection , which be an issue that cross all department and sector . while legislation keep whistleblowe siloe as an employment and , thus , Department for Business and Trade matter , evidence show that it be everyone ' s issue , affect every area . I will attempt to set out just a few of they . first , I welcome the measure in the King ' s Speech to give the police more power to tackle serious , complex economic and organised crime and to crush groom gang . we know that often the single most effective way to detect crime be through whistleblower and informed insider . whistleblower be responsible for uncover about half of economic crime in the UK . they play an important role in identify wrongdoing across all sector and all of society , from flag medical negligence and cover - up to shine a light on sexual assault and the abuse of power . they be people who do the right thing , despite the risk to their reputation , the risk of retribution and the risk to their personal wellbeing . the problem be that those risk be high , so there be little incentive to take such a risk at all . far , whistleblower be often ignore . while I welcome the measure that will rightly provide the police with additional power to help they tackle child sexual abuse , include grooming , particularly when it occur online , when grooming gang be operate in Rotherham and Rochdale , the whistleblower who bring attention to what be take place be ignore or — bad — silence , and the gang be able to carry on for far too long . on the occasion when whistleblowe be debate in this place , those debate be respond to by a Business Minister . I be delighted that the current Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) — be a former vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for whistleblowing , which I chair . however , give that there be whistleblower in every sector , whistleblowing should be within the remit of a Minister in every Department and ultimate oversight should be with the Cabinet Office , as many have suggest . as we know , omission from the King ' s Speech do not mean that there be no scope for legislation , which be why I continue to call on the Government , follow their framework review , to introduce law to protect and support whistleblower and to recognise that whistleblowing be more than just an employment matter . it be rare for there to be cross - party support on an issue , but I believe that protect whistleblower be one of those issue . we need a speak - out protection for everyone , but at the moment the Government ' s definition of a whistleblower be a worker who report " certain type of wrongdoing . " the guidance clarify that this wrongdoing will " usually be something you ' ve see at work — though not always . " the current legislation — which incidentally specifically mention all member of Parliament as have legal duty towards whistleblower — be the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 , or PIDA . this 25 - year - old piece of legislation be a groundbreaking part of UK employment law , but be now not fit for purpose . it leave myriad people , such as contractor , volunteer , trustee and the family of employee who may have witness or have evidence of wrongdoing , misconduct or even criminal activity , unprotected from any negative consequence that may ensue if they blow the whistle . openness and transparency should be the cornerstone of our society and institution . therefore , I look forward to hear more about some of the measure that the Government intend to introduce , such as a legal duty of candour for police officer , require they to tell the truth to inquiry , investigation and public authority . People would ask why we do not expect candour from all public servant anyway , back up by legislation that encourage all people to speak out and to feel safe in do so . in the NHS , follow the recommendation of Sir Robert Francis ' s inquiry into Mid Staffs , a statutory duty of candour be put into law for NHS trust and other provider in 2014 and 2015 . this duty play an important role in a culture of openness and transparency , which be vital for patient safety , but despite that we continue to hear about whistleblower be penalise for speak up and raise concern . a statutory duty of candour must be back up by a change in culture and whistleblower protection . we do not need to be remind of the doctor who raise the alarm over the murder of seven baby and the attempt murder of six more at the Countess of Chester Hospital . they should have be listen to from the start , not silence or make to apologise to the killer . their job hang in the balance , and while they ultimately keep their livelihood and have since be vindicate , it be extraordinary that it take so long for they to be hear and for the matter to be take seriously . I have hear from one of the doctor at first hand , and I be shock at how the situation unfold . not only be it reasonable to believe that life could have be save if concern have be take seriously , but the killer be treat like the victim and the whistleblower like the offender . many of those doctor have suffer personal detriment as a result of that treatment — detail that we know discourage people from speak up . the law , PIDA , do not incentivise speak up and , if anything , be an effective deterrent . whistleblower , include even those who come within its scope , all say the same thing : PIDA do not work . that be confirm by the evidence provide by the court that less than 4 % of case succeed at employment tribunal and that not a single case of wrongdoing have be escalate in the 25 year of PIDA ' s existence . in transport , the measure in the rail reform Bill to improve our rail network and ensure an efficient service and particularly accountability will be welcome by my Cheadle constituent . I mention the importance of accountability because it relate to HS2 and the report just the other week in the Times , which reveal that an individual who blow the whistle on HS2 Ltd ' s allege cover - up of mount cost not only do not have his contract renew , but struggle for more than a year to find other employment in his industry , which he attribute to his whistleblowing . he be not alone . in the medium , it be a whistleblower who expose the use of fake bank statement by Martin Bashir to support false claim in his interview with Earl Spencer , yet his whistleblowing lead to he be sack after raise concern . in some industry , whistleblower be still deter by the fear of blacklist . we tend to focus on deter negative or criminal behaviour , as we should ; however , perhaps now be the time to consider incentivise positive behaviour as well . I meet someone from a local business this summer and be tell how important the furlough scheme and covid - 19 business loan be to their firm , but , have struggle to do the right thing and pay back the loan , they be frustrate that so many business be simply leave the loan unpaid — some in the hope , perhaps , that they might never need to repay they . I be pleased that the Government be take action to deal with that , because we know that public sector fraud have grow since the covid - 19 pandemic begin . the Public Accounts Committee report recently that these swiftly roll out scheme be vulnerable to fraud and error , and be exploit to the tune of million . they be good scheme that keep people in work and business afloat . both the Cabinet Office and HM Treasury have commit to recover as much public money as possible , but they accept that most of the £ 21 billion lose to fraud during the pandemic will not be recoverable , so a commitment to that recovery be welcome . while it be vital that our law and penalty be robust — the King ' s Speech set out many further measure and law that will be put in place — we must not just deter individual from commit crime , but punish the one who do , and punish they properly . we should support and perhaps also compensate those who come forward to share information about wrongdoing — those who be sometimes at risk of personal detriment . it be rare that I would reference speech give at the Labour party conference , but on this occasion I will . I notice that the shadow Foreign Secretary comment in a speech at the conference that his party would introduce a new whistleblow scheme to reward those who expose steal asset and sanction breach and help to recover misappropriate fund . in my view , this should perhaps go even far and not be limit to whistleblower who expose steal asset and sanction breach . we should seek to recover the estimate £ 350 billion lose to economic crime in the UK annually . we should recognise that all those who come forward to do the right thing and bring criminal to justice , stop negligence and malpractice , and highlight flaw in the system be do it for all our benefit . we should be a country where do the right thing be encourage and celebrate , not a cause for punishment and detriment . we should be the country that make whistleblowe work for everyone . it be indeed a special occasion to be there today for his Majesty ' s first King ' s Speech and particularly to see he continue the remarkable tradition of service and duty of his late mother , our dearly miss Queen Elizabeth . I declare my interest in relation to the armed force , Ukraine and my role as co - chair of the LGBT + parliamentary Labour party , and the relevant appg . the speech today , as an occasion , be very special ; the content , I be afraid , be far from that . it be short , it be inadequate and it simply do not rise to the challenge we face as a country . this be fundamentally a Government who be out of idea . stuck in a high - tax , low - growth economy , they have abandon their promise in many area and fail to invest in our public service , and instead engage in cheap , divisive politic . what a contrast with the clear , mission - lead agenda set out by the Leader of the Opposition , which would be at the heart of a future UK Labour Government . it be always there in the talk point for Ministers at the Dispatch Box , and we hear some barracking today from conservative Back Benchers , but I be feed up with the cheap shot and the talk down of Wales that we regularly hear from the Government Benches . there be a stark contrast between what we have see from this Tory Government at the UK level and what we have see from a Labour - lead Government in Wales , and indeed from my labour - lead council in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan . I have see the reality on the doorstep and in my community . I have see new school be build , such as Eastern High and Penarth Learning Community . I have see a new further education college . I have see new hospital facility be build at Llandough . I have see new station be build , right at this moment , on a metro line into Cardiff Bay . I have see new economic investment in our city centre and bay . indeed , as the topic of homelessness have be so shamefully speak about by the Home Secretary , I have also see Labour council in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan build new sustainable housing to deal with the challenge face those who tragically find themselves on the street . that be what we need to see : action on housing and action on homelessness , not divisive and shameful comment from the Home Secretary . the Leader of the opposition be absolutely right to highlight that . I be conscious that there be always more to do . I have be out and about in my constituency in Cardiff South and Penarth in the last few week , engage with lot of different community and lot of different concern . we continue our campaign to see a new station build in St Mellons , the St Mellons parkway station . I have be raise concern about poor performance on the great western main line . I have be argue for reform to , and the protection of , local bus service . I have be listen to the concern of those on low income struggle to make end meet , include local taxi driver , and those struggle with their energy bill and the rent and mortgage hike as a result of the Conservative Government . I have also be meet those concerned about local gp service . we need adequate and fit - for - the - future service across Cardiff and Penarth . but of course that can only come with adequate investment across the United Kingdom and a co - operative relationship between a UK Government — hopefully a UK Labour Government — and a Welsh Labour Government , along with Welsh Labour council in Wales . one of the stark contrast in approach between Wales and those of we on the Labour Benches , and the current Government , be on climate change and the green transition . the Government have abandon target and be go backwards when we need to be move forward with green transition , green job , green investment , sustainable housing and adaptation . community in my local area , in place such as Sully and Dinas Powys , be already experience the consequence of severe flooding and rainfall event . but I also see the opportunity , for example in green steel , the recycled steel already in produce in my constituency , and in green industry and green technology of the future , many be pilot at our fantastic university in Cardiff and south Wales . let I turn to some of the other issue in the King ' s Speech . on leaseholder reform , I be interested to see the detail of the proposal . there have be a lot of cross - party work on the issue and concern raise on behalf of many constituent . I have many leaseholder — ten of thousand — in my constituency who have be struggle with defective building , fire and building safety issue , extortionate and often inexplicable service charge , and be catch in mortgage prison . there be a whole industry around conveyancing , survey and so on , which have fail many of my resident who find themselves catch up in untenable situation . in particular , I have meet some of they in recent week who have be tell I about shocking service charge , which I be try to follow up with management company . company be still fail to move forward quickly enough , or indeed at all , on remediation , and to take responsibility for their failing in the construction of building , particularly in Cardiff Bay . I raise concern with the Welsh Government on those issue , but we need co - operative action across the United Kingdom . a lot of the problem predate devolution . the leasehold system be decade and decade old — I think hundred of year old . I want Bills on this issue to come forward in this place , with co - operation between official at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Welsh Government , not the silly political gameplaying we have see , unfortunately , from some conservative . there be a willingness ; the Welsh Government be take a constructive approach . let we see that meet from the other side to benefit my resident and the resident of member from across the House . we also need to look at what be miss from the King ' s Speech . I could talk about that for hour , but I want to highlight two issue in particular . one be , of course , the ban on conversion therapy that we be promise again and again and again by the Government . conversion therapy be a despicable , abusive practice . frankly , the fact that it be not include in the speech be a betrayal not only of the victim of conversion therapy across the country , but of all the campaign group , and all the cross - party , cross - religious and cross - community group who have argue for it to be ban . conversion therapy be a dangerous , life - threaten practice that lead to decade of consequence for those who go through it . I contrast that again with Labour ' s commitment to a fully inclusive ban on conversion therapy . I be sorry to say — this follow on from a debate we have in Westminster Hall in the previous Session just a few week ago — that this do not come as any surprise , despite some very passionate speech from Conservative Members . I acknowledge that there be member in that debate from , I think , all party in the House and from all part of the United Kingdom . the Government have abandon their LGBT + action plan and disband their LGBT + advisory board . I be tell by a Home Office Minister that we be hysterical for raise concern about the significant rise in hate crime face by the LGBT + community . the Government be fail LGBT + people and be instead use this issue as part of their divisive culture war . it be simply unacceptable , and I know that many conservative Members — indeed , many Ministers , I be tell — feel exactly the same way . another area miss from the King ' s Speech — a deep shame give the motion that be pass unanimously by the House — be an issue I raise a few week ago : legislation on the seizure of russian state asset to repurpose they for reconstruction in Ukraine . the motion we pass be for legislation to be pass in 90 day . the King ' s Speech would have be an apt opportunity , albeit a little bit late , but it be absent . again , what be happen ? I hope the Government will have some answer soon . I have to say , and it be good to see my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) the shadow Defence Secretary on the Labour Front Bench , that it be deeply disappointing to hear the Prime Minister ' s divisive comment about the armed force and security . they be a disservice to those on the Labour Benches who have serve , as well as to family and community . the reality be that Labour fully support NATO and fully support our independent nuclear deterrent . we want security co - operation , with NATO as our bedrock , across Europe , our atlantic partner and other ally . this Government have slash the Army , waste billion and leave those who serve we bravely in Afghanistan languish in hotel for month and month on end at great cost to the public purse . it would be nice to see a bit more of a consistent approach and more truth about Labour ' s position . we will defend this country , we will defend our armed force and we will work to support our veteran as we rightly should , particularly as we be come up to Remembrance Sunday this weekend . I normally talk from the Opposition Front Bench on international issue , but I want to reflect as a constituency MP on some of the challenge face the world at the moment . that be important in a constituency such as mine , because of its nature as a port and have have people come from all over the world for over 150 year . what happen elsewhere in the world — in Israel and Palestine , Afghanistan , Sudan , Libya , the Sahel , south Asia , Yemen , Nigeria , Syria and many , many other region and country — matter deeply to my constituent . in the past week I have hear from constituent about their anguish at the death , loss of civilian life and destruction in Gaza , and their horror at the terrorism , hostage taking and kill that Israel and its citizen have have to endure . I have hear about the need to ensure we protect civilian , aid worker , hospital and school ; to secure humanitarian pause and get humanitarian aid in , particularly into Gaza ; and to move back to a pathway to peace and a two - state solution , and to an adherence to international law and international humanitarian law . I have also , with other hon . member and neighbour in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan , hear face to face from those who have family who be directly affect in both Gaza and Israel — a genuine fear about what division can mean for we in our community . I be also proud of the resilience and response from community in Cardiff South and Penarth , whether in raise fund for aid and relief effort in many different situation around the world , include in the middle east at the moment , or in work to promote inter - faith and inter - cultural dialogue here in the UK . that be absolutely critical when we be face with a shocking rise in antisemitism and Islamophobia , and a wide rise in race and religious hate crime . I want to conclude by say that this weekend I see community in my area at their very good . I join Indian — Hindu , Sikh and other — community celebrate Diwali together . I join a very diverse group of Christian and other faith community who be celebrate with the Greek Orthodox Church 150 year of the greek and greek - cypriot community in Cardiff South and Penarth . I also meet young Muslims and other with Citizens Wales to discuss their hope and aspiration for the future . we need more dialogue in this country and less division . I would hope that that would be the heart of any Government ' s programme . I know it would be the heart of a Labour Government ' s programme . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) . as he will know , his be a part of the world that I know well , come from the western part of the city , and have contest his seat back in the 2010 general election . I fight Cardiff South and Penarth , and Cardiff South and Penarth win ! I be interested by the hon . Gentleman ' s final remark about the Greek Orthodox Church : my late maternal grandmother be married to a Greek so she know that church pretty well , and it be very nice to hear the hon . Gentleman mention it . let I begin by say how much I agree with the assessment of the right hon . member for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) of the devastatingly sad situation in the middle east , and also with what be say by the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) about the vital importance of maintain domestic steel production . if we learn anything from the mad international scramble for personal protective equipment during the covid pandemic , it be the need for domestic production of material that be often vital but be susceptible to fragility in international supply chain . a country that can not produce its own steel be not , I would suggest , an independent country in industrial term . I should add that my right hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Chris Grayling ) — along with other , include the hon . member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) — make some good point about forestry . the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) make a telling observation about the sad moment it would have be for the Sovereign , who be deliver the King ' s Speech only because his late mother the Queen have pass away . however , it be a pleasure for I to speak follow the first Gracious Speech deliver by a male sovereign for 71 year . I always think that the key phrase in the Gracious Speech be " other measure will be lay before you . " it be that great catch - all which mean " something on which we could not quite get agreement before it go to print can now be look at . " it also mean that people have suddenly say , " well , we think we do not have time to do this , but we find that we have " , and it mean that when legislation be need , opportunity can be address . I would issue a caution about assess a governmental programme , even at such a late stage in a Parliament , purely on the basis of the number of Bills involve . we be obsess with quantity , deeming success to lie in have pass hundred of Bills and thousand of statutory instrument , but we rarely think about quality . we rarely pause to ask ourselves whether stuff be on the statute book in any event but we be not draw on it ; we be always think that every problem be a new problem which require new legislation . have say that , however , and without wish to shoot my own argument down in flame if I go any far , I should emphasise that I be encourage by what be say by my right hon . friend the Prime Minister during the final session of Prime Minister ' s question before Prorogation , when I raise with he the need to continue the process of review and reform of the funding formulae for a number of key service delivery agency — the Environment Agency , policing , local government and education — in the context of rural area . we inherit funding formulae devise by the Labour party , which be tilt principally towards the urban and metropolitan at the expense of the rural . I be not advocate a system in which Peter must pay Paul , but we need great equity , and an understanding of the difficulty of deliver rural service , in the formulae that be deploy in the making of funding decision . progress have be make , particularly in education and certainly in respect of the rural sparsity fund , but I be hopeful that within those " other measure " — that great catch - all — we may well see more change . anyone who have read as well as listen to the Gracious Speech , as I be sure many of we will have do , may have be strike by what I think be the most important sentence in it : " that be why my Government ' s priority be to make the difficult but necessary long - term decision to change this country for the well . " what could be more conservative , more traditionally Tory , than that ? take difficult decision , not for party advantage but in the national interest : that be a golden thread that run through my strand of " one nation " moderate conservatism , and I applaud it warmly while also caution Labour Members , all of whose speech have indicate a preference for party interest rather than public service . they say , " let we have a general election now , because all this will change after it " , as if that would help to solve any problem in the short to medium term . we on this side of the House will continue to govern in the national interest , take those long - term and difficult decision . I have little or no doubt that North Dorset resident will welcome the proposal for education , and will be interested in see the detail of the advanced british standard , which will merge technical and academic route into a single qualification . my area have excellent high school — my three daughter attend one of they — but we be continually try to motivate our young to access the excellent local college in Weymouth , Salisbury and Yeovil and grasp the opportunity that they present , while also say to parent that apprenticeship and non - academic education be important as well . it be long overdue , but his Majesty ' s Government be right to assess the utility of some degree course . I do not wish to reduce education to a utilitarian equation , but a lot of people be spend a lot of money on a lot of degree course that will never recoup the expenditure , and I think we be right to look at that in order to secure a well future for our young people . a key theme in the speech be security , and it be define in a number of key area . it be perfectly sensible to focus on national energy security , just as it be perfectly sensible to support the production of domestic steel , as we have hear . it be bonker to be reliant on foreign energy production and product when we can produce they here , with not only employment and tax benefit but environmental benefit : if we be to use these product , it be much well to reduce the number of mile for which they have to travel , and also to monitor our very high standard , as deploy by the Environment Agency , the Health and Safety Executive and , of course , other . I shall be particularly interested , as will many people in North Dorset , to see the detail of the reform of grid connection . the problem of grid capacity and access to it be clearly hamper economic growth , as I know only too well from the situation in my part of Dorset and , indeed , throughout the county . I think I be correct in say that there be still not a single business park in the county of Dorset that could be develop to its full potential , not through lack of interest on the part of potential employer but merely because there would not be enough electricity to serve those employer ' need . that , one would have think , be a fairly basic issue : just as access to clean water or to sewerage be important , access to electricity be key to grow business and create job . there be a huge amount of emphasis in the Gracious Speech on physical security as we usually define it — our armed force and security source — in an ever - change and increasingly dangerous world . the first duty of the state , as we know , be to keep her people safe , and that , I think , will be at the heart of any legislation that the Government introduce . as for financial security , the light appear to be at the end of the tunnel , but we be not at the end of the tunnel yet — we be not out of the wood — so we must try to deliver as much financial security as possible for individual , family and business through calm , competent , rational common - sense Treasury and Government decision . I think that those who be say that the King ' s Speech should have be much more full of Bills , and far more exciting and all the rest of it , miss the point . I think the electorate be broadly exhausted and actually just want to see a few thing be do supremely well , rather than lot of headline - chaser be do incredibly badly . they just want a sensible Tory Government , and I know that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Chancellor will deliver that in spade . my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) be right to reference the benefit of free trade to the world ' s poor and to our UK exporter . I agree with he on that , but I usually disagree with he on the issue of the race to the bottom with regard to standard and regulation . I do not detect a huge appetite in the House for a de minimis approach to regulation , particularly — I say this as one who represent a rural and farming constituency — with regard to agricultural standard . when my right hon . friend the Prime Minister assume that important office last year , he make it clear that parity of standard and regulation — the level play field on which I table amendment to the Agriculture Bill , as do the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee — for our farmer on animal welfare , the use of chemical and the like would be absolutely front and centre in future negotiation of free trade agreement , and I support that . I speak as a Welshman who represent an english constituency and who chair the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee — confuse , Mr Deputy Speaker ? you will be ; I sometimes be . we be the Conservative and Unionist party and it do not take a great constitutional expert to realise that some of the thread and fabric of the rich tapestry of our United Kingdom be under great stress and strain . we have see it in the phenomenon of the rise of scottish nationalism ; my native Wales be start to see a little bit more of it , and we have a nationalist First Minister designate in Northern Ireland . I always make the point , and I hope that the Government will make it during this legislative year , that to be a Unionist , you do not have to be uniform . the strength of our Union be in the difference of the four nation that make up our kingdom : cultural , historical , political , linguistic in some area , and musical — the whole kit and caboodle . but what unite we and make we strong , as be clearly demonstrate in our united response to the horror of Ukraine and the middle east , be our share value : freedom of speech ; the rule of law ; an independent judiciary ; the ability of our military and overseas aid worker to do good in some of the most difficult and challenging part of the globe ; and the soft power reach of our language , the BBC , our armed force and our diplomatic corp . all these thing be draw from the rich of the four quarter of this kingdom . we should never , ever lose sight of that fact and we should never dodge the opportunity to stress that across the four part of the United Kingdom . my hon . friend be rightly passionate about the need to strengthen the Union , which be reference in the King ' s Speech . do he agree that that have to be one of the found principle of this government as they take this legislative agenda forward ? I do agree , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention . as a parent I hugely welcome the renew focus on vaping and its danger . I do not think it be readily understand by parent , by teacher or indeed by teenager themselves . in Gillingham in my constituency , we have two vape shop that be far too close to the high school for comfort . we can understand where the marketing go . which of we have not lose a love one or family member to a smoking - relate disease ? I be sure that there will be some who argue about libertarian principle and the infringement of civil liberty in response to the Government ' s proposal , but when we know that a product can do such enormous harm and that it have such huge cost to public health and to the taxpayer , what Government would not act to improve public health ? this will be the equivalent of the Clean Air Act 1956 , and I welcome it and give it my full support . this be an exciting king ' s Speech . there be plenty in it and it will keep we busy . there be lot to do and I look forward to it play an important part in show that my party be alive and kicking , full of idea , commit to our country and able to govern we , both this year and in the future . it be a real pleasure to follow the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) . in respond to the King ' s Speech I must open where his Majesty end , reflect on the horrendous situation in Israel and Gaza . my constituent have overwhelmingly express their call for an immediate ceasefire across Israel and Gaza , put the humanitarian cause at the forefront of our response . our heart be break for the hostage , the casualty and their family catch up in this war . while I utterly condemn the horrific violence perpetrate by Hamas , I can not be silent about the barbarity of the bombing in Gaza . as israeli citizen be suffer , the civilian of Gaza be suffer too . they have neither perpetrate any violence nor have any mean of defence . last night Antonio Guterres , the UN Secretary General , describe this as " a crisis of humanity " and say that Gaza be fast become " a graveyard for child " . over 4 , 100 innocent child be dead . every life be a precious gift and we carry a heavy responsibility to do everything in our power to stop the killing . I therefore call for an immediate ceasefire , with the return of all hostage . I call for justice for those whose human right have be steal . I call for talk to be take to a new level and note the dereliction of duty of this Government over many year in focus on the situation in the middle east . if we join the majority of nation call for a ceasefire and work for a ceasefire , it be more likely to come about than if we do not . a humanitarian pause might be the first step , but we can not let the killing then resume . we know that 10 , 000 Palestinians and 1 , 400 Israelis be already in their grave . we must also ensure that this conflict be not fuel by the further supply of defence weapon into the hand of any actor in this war . the UK arm trade have sell equipment into Israel and I call for that to stop today while work internationally to prevent Hamas from regroup and rearm . with 1 . 5 million people now displace in Gaza , we also demand an escalation in the Government ' s humanitarian response . they must use all their power , their ship and plane , their diplomacy and persuasion and , as necessary , their resource to get food , water , medical aid and other humanitarian supply into Gaza . history will not judge this nation well unless we refocus to bring about the cause of peace . it be possible , but we carry a heavy responsibility to join the majority of nation who now make this call . today I would also have hope for a Bill to enable a home for refugee scheme , follow the support that the UK be able to provide for Ukrainians and the learning from that . we must recognise that palestinian survivor of war should be grant similar opportunity by the generosity of the public . today the Government seek to build barrier , not bridge , and that be something I vehemently oppose at a time when people be in desperate need . such a Bill would establish not only the principle of how we support people who be displace through the brutality of war and our international contribution to such a debate , but also a framework through which the UK fulfil its obligation under the refugee convention . York hold the international chair for Human Rights Cities this year , and as England ' s only human right city , we stand ready to step up and play our part . this Saturday , York will gather as we host a peace vigil in York Minster , draw the whole city together for reflection lead by faith , political and civic leader as people bring their plea , petition , protest and prayer . nothing be more pressing for this Parliament than to focus on this crisis . at a time when we face an economic crisis , a climate crisis , a cost of live crisis and a housing crisis , and with the NHS in meltdown , the failure to bring forward a serious legislative programme today only highlight how this Government be out of idea , out of time and soon to be out of office . I be deeply concerned about the scale and depth of mental health challenge face by my constituent , and I be disappointed that there will be no legislation , follow the work of the Joint Committee on the draft Mental Health Bill , to advance the right and choice of those in crisis . our system be out of date , and measure to provide a human right approach to mental health be long overdue . the Government must account for why this be leave out and for how the serious and significant gap in our framework for detain and treat patient will be close . please reconsider . although late to the table , I add my support for the control of tobacco sale . smoking kill . cancer , respiratory disease , cardiovascular disease , vascular dementia and many other be the result of decade of fail to address this public health crisis . the last Labour Government do more than any previous Government to stop smoking , so this Bill be welcome . I far welcome the regulation of the vaping industry . vaping be a useful transition tool for smoker to quit , but the scale of new vaper , especially among the young , be deeply alarming , carry significant risk of addiction and lung condition . the vaping industry need to be take to task for the way it be behave , as if we have not see it all before with smoking . housing policy have be an utter disaster under this Government . luxury apartment have be build that my constituent can not afford , use vital brownfield site for second home and Airbnbs , while the building rate for council home and affordable home have be abysmal . my constituent be pay a very heavy price in rent and mortgage , as demand far outweighs supply in York , which have one of the bad housing supply in the country . People be force to leave their city , and the economy be out of balance . and this Government have sit idly by , year after year , serve their paymaster not their people . we need change . too many people be trap in damp , mouldy home , while other be enslave by the private rent sector , which take all it can , yet we still wait to see the legislation . it be frankly shameful how this Tory Government have leave housing to the market , not see it as a human right or a public service . the next Labour Government will radically change this . there be 460 leasehold transaction in York last year , 27 . 9 % of the total . as a Co - operative MP , I strongly argue for a focus on community - lead housing , commonhold , include a legal definition and a legal framework . Leasehold be a feudal and exploitative system of home ownership in which the freeholder profit at significant cost to leaseholder while hide behind comparative anonymity . People be trap with spiral management cost as they can not sell their asset . unaccountable as they hike ground rent and service charge , determine excessive amount of work , whether need or not , and dodge their legal responsibility for transparency and accountability , the management company try to broker between leaseholder and freeholder but be often not much well — all profiteer from resident . although we welcome the scrapping of ground rent for new property , it must be scrap for all property . ground rent be simply an interest bonus scheme for greedy developer and landowner . it must be scrap for all . I trust that the leasehold and freehold Bill will address the injustice and pave the way not only for commonhold but for resident to purchase their freehold without the present barrier and for " right to manage " provision . as we build , we need radical reform so that a home be not a means for extract everything out of the owner . let and manage agent need tight regulation and well accountability through a legally enforceable code of practice , alongside a redress scheme akin to an ombudsman process , so that those live in leasehold property have their right restore . there be flood in York last week . I be all too aware that the Flood re scheme should also be extend to leaseholder , as they ultimately pick up the cost of high insurance premium . I trust that the propose Bill will make provision for this , on which I would welcome an early meeting with the Minister . yet again , the Tory party have claim to be the party of the worker , but there be no employment Bill , which we have be promise for six year . although we also need to overturn the anti - trade union law and strengthen employment right , as the next Labour Government will do , I will use the private Member ' s Bill process to bring back my legislation on bullying and respect at work . this would create a legal definition of bully at work and a route to an employment tribunal , with a six - month limit , and it would provide for the Equality and Human Rights Commission to inspect and bring enforcement action against employer that fail to address a bullying culture at work . it would also advance the need for a positive behaviour code . bully at work be the second large industrial issue . one in 10 worker have be bully in the last six month , with the cost of workforce conflict run into billion and with 7 million working day be lose to stress , anxiety and depression stem from such negative behaviour . outside this place , the importance of legislating be recognise . we need to heed that and pass law in Parliament . this must be the last Humble Address under this government . the King ' s Speech be humble in content and fail to address the crisis of our age . the next time we have such an opportunity to lay a legislative programme before our country , I trust it will be that of a radical and reform Labour Government who seek to rid our country of the obscene level of inequality , and who seek to transform the life of people in my city of York , the country and beyond . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . she will probably not be surprised to hear that I do not agree with many of her remark , but she always speak with a focus on people and on the constituent she serve and represent . in prepare for today ' s debate , I , like many other member , reflect on this historic moment . this be the first King ' s Speech in my lifetime and in the lifetime of probably everyone in the Chamber . when her late Majesty take the throne in the early 1950 , Britain be a very different place . we be still emerge from world war two and , have I talk about the web , people would have assume that I be talk about a problem with spider . Most adult smoke in the 1950 . walk around this building , we can still see ashtray all over the place . it be very much the do thing , with tobacco advertising common . in this session , we will discuss a Bill that mean future generation may never lawfully buy a cigarette . this could be a major step forward . there be detail to be hear on exactly how it will work — the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) speak about shopkeeper in 20 or 30 year ' time have to work out whether someone be 47 or 48 — but the aspiration of have a smoke - free Britain be certainly worth while . we have already hear some allusion to the change on vaping , which be similarly welcome . there be business in Torbay sell e - cigarette that be clearly target at adult . their building look more like a bar , and the packaging be reflective of the type of product that we would generally expect to be aim at the over - 18 . my granddaughter Emily sum up brilliantly the problem with how the law currently regulate vaping . she make the point that , if this product be about stop adult smoking — about transition from smoke cigarette to be a non - smoker — what adult look to give up smoking would walk into a corner shop and look for a product with a gummy bear flavour , in a bright green packet and with a cartoon character on the front ? what adult be go to do that ? the target of that product be obvious , and it be not the over - 18 . some of the current issue with vape exactly match some of the issue we see with how tobacco be market to reach new smoker . for example , cheap disposable vape replicate the ability to buy small pack of cigarette , or even individual cigarette , in the distant past . it be absolutely right that we be look to crack down on this , while keep a genuine choice for those who be look to give up smoking , and who need assistance to do so . a number of Bills be welcome . many member have reflect on the potential for a Bill on leasehold to tackle many of the problem in that area . there be a number of property in Torbay where people be look to retire but still want to own their own property and so will look to buy an apartment or a flat on leasehold . many be well manage and have fair charge , but there be instance where that be not the case . when I be in the Department for Communities and Local Government , as it be call then , we have a call for evidence a few year back and all sort of issue emerge — we hear about everything . we hear about window work that an independent contractor would have charge about £ 3 , 000 for , but the freeholder have select a relative to deliver it at a charge of £ 20 , 000 or £ 30 , 000 . my right hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Chris Grayling ) speak about house that should have be sell as freehold be instead sell as leasehold . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) refer to communal area that have a surprisingly high specification and cost to maintain they , with it all be charge to the leaseholder . that be not a genuine way of maintain an estate , but a way of rip people off . I also welcome the medium Bill . the section 40 provision it propose to repeal from the Crime and Courts Act 2013 be create in another era . the Leveson inquiry look at the problem of the press of the past ; the print medium do not occupy the position today that it do even five or eight year ago . sale of paper be decline and very few of we go to our letterbox in the morning to read the late headline rather than open up our phone , pad or laptop . therefore , target the print medium specifically in the way that be suggest some year ago be no long fair or relevant , so that repeal proposal be welcome . tomorrow night , I shall be with member of the Torquay United supporter trust , who lobby heavily for the implementation of the recommendation of the fan - lead review . it be good to hear that the Bill on football governance will be come through . we can all think of the various example of badly manage club and problem lead to ground , sometimes historic one , potentially be sell . in some case , club have end up play somewhere completely different . in the disastrous period when Sisu own Coventry City football club , it end up play up in Birmingham and , at another time , it play in Northampton . that all expose the utterly useless system of football regulation that currently exist and how a change be long overdue . in the past couple of month , I have not just be read the many campaign email we get in the run - up to a King ' s Speech , but directly ask resident across Torquay and Paignton , especially new voter turn 18 , what issue they want to see address in the King ' s Speech . hundred reply and I be grateful to they for do so . the top six issue be crime , immigration , the environment , housing , planning and animal welfare — crime , immigration and housing be clearly ahead of the pack . on crime , it be vital to see justice be do and it be completely wrong that a person convict of a heinous crime can hide away in a prison cell when their sentence be be hand down in court . I therefore welcome the move to legislate to give judge the power to bring those convict of the bad crime up to the courtroom to face their judgment . it be absolutely right that that be take forward . I also welcome the move on whole - life sentence for the most heinous of offender . again , this will build the public ' s confidence that those who commit appalling crime will not only receive the punishment they deserve , but will have to face judgment when it be give . look at this area more widely , I hope that this session also give we more opportunity to consider how we ensure that people feel safe in their community , especially in our town centre . we all know the challenge that they be face follow economic change and the way in which online shopping during the pandemic accelerate the shift away from physical retail . I urge the Government to think about how we can go far in work with local council and community group on this . it will require enforcement work , such as deal with antisocial behaviour connect with drinking and drug taking on the street . however , we must also consider how to join that up with support in term of housing , mental health and breaking cycle of addiction — problem that often drive the antisocial behaviour we see . this time last week , I be with Father Neil Knox of Paignton parish church to see how it have become a hub to ensure that people go through the dark tunnel of addiction or exploitation can see a light at the end of it . sadly , that work have see the church and its clergy be target by some of the dark force in our community , who see it as a threat to their trade and position . I know that the local police be respond and I hope that the Home Office will assist with additional funding in response to a bid that have be make . immigration be refer to in the King ' s Speech , and there be two clear part to that debate . first , on illegal migration , a lot will depend on the Supreme Court ruling on the Rwanda plan , which will break the business model of the people smuggler if it can be take forward . it be encouraging to see that many of the plan that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) and I draw up while in the Home Office be be implement , include greek - style accommodation centre and key part of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , such as the reform of age assessment . we need to remember that there be a second part to the debate on migration : legal migration . I be talk about those who come here on a visa , when we have choose to give they the chance to come to our country . I hope that this session will provide opportunity to reflect on how we use our legal migration system and the rule it operate under . we should welcome those who come to fill vital role and bring valuable skill , but we must balance that with the impact on our domestic labour market and the importance of ensure that employer invest in UK training and offer the rewarding package worker deserve to attract they into an industry , rather than see immigration , or lobby for change on immigration , as a handy opportunity to avoid do that . in particular , I want the Government to reflect on the recommendation of the Migration Advisory Committee review of the shortage occupation list . one of the last thing I do as Immigration Minister be to commission that review to look at how the list work . we should abolish the 20 % salary discount for job on the list and update the salary threshold , which be become increasingly out of date , give the change in the labour market since they be set at the advent of the point - base system . I suspect that my right hon . friend the Minister for Immigration would be very keen to announce some of those item from the Dispatch Box , so I urge other colleague in government to think carefully about why that might be . turn to the environment , as a coastal MP I want a move to bring in primary legislation to ratify the global ocean treaty . as those on the Treasury Bench will be aware , once 60 country ratify it , the treaty will come into force . it will then be possible to create a network of global ocean sanctuary that be off limit to harmful industrial activity such as oil drilling , industrial fishing and deep sea mining . I hope that we will get the chance to discuss primary legislation on this subject , and I can not imagine that it will be particularly controversial when we do . another area that need careful consideration be housing and its intrinsic link to planning . the way our current system work be ripe for reform . the most dramatic example of the need for change be that we have long housing need waiting list while empty and derelict building sit in our town centre . this be not about pitch the old classic of " developer versus community " and " greenfield versus home " ; there be a real need to look at how our system work . hospitality business that be seek to modify their premise to incorporate item such as a slightly expand spa encounter either a " no " or a requirement to go through a lengthy planning process . bad , a potential brand - new language school for Paignton be lose in a row over a bike rack and bin storage . the exist permission for an office , if use , would have far more impact on the surround property . I be not advocate a return to the type of sweeping planning power we give council in the 1940 to enable post - war rebuilding , but I urge the Government to have another look at the indication council give only last year that they be keen to have more flexibility on planning in key regeneration area . although there be some scare story , these area be far more likely to be a derelict 1960 concrete jungle than a precious nature spot . Mr Deputy Speaker , I know you have to be completely neutral when you be in the Chair , but some of my next remark about animal welfare be inspire by a Member for a Kent constituency who I regularly meet when I be in the Tea Room . animal welfare be close to the heart of many constituent and I welcome the Government ' s dramatic change in approach to animal welfare issue since May 2015 , particularly under the leadership of Boris Johnson , who be keen to push forward on those issue . I be disappointed we do not take the opportunity to pass the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill in the last session , but we have see good achievement during the last Parliament , such as the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 and the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 , which see the maximum penalty increase from six month to five year , along with the extension and updating of the Ivory Act 2018 , which now cover five additional specie . there be also some excellent cross - party work on private member ' Bills , such as the Shark Fins Act 2023 . it be welcome that the Government will introduce a Bill about animal welfare and live export . with the freedom produce by Brexit , it be time to outlaw long and unnecessary journey simply for fattening and slaughter . however , time must also be find for key change in area such as pet theft and zoo regulation , which be in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , along with the promise ban on hunt trophy , which be frustrate by a small number in the Lords , despite the strong support it receive in this Chamber . clearly , those issue could be overcome by a Government Bill . in conclusion , the King ' s Speech include several welcome item , which I look forward to we debate in due course . today be a day when we look to the future , but also a day when we reflect on a 70 - year period of distinguished public service , which mean many of we today have still describe it as the Queen ' s Speech . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) . I join he in welcome the propose legislation for further curb on smoking and for progress on animal welfare issue . I be sure he will not be offend if I part company with he there , as there be a lack of general welcome by the Opposition for the rather thin King ' s Speech that we hear today . I wish to concentrate on two issue . first , 13 year into the Conservative Government , the empty Government promise in the King ' s Speech will not address the crisis in the nhs that now see record waiting list , lengthy wait in accident and emergency department and long wait time for cancer patient . the Prime Minister promise today to cut waiting list . we have hear similar promise before , but last month waiting list rise to a record high , with almost one in seven people now wait for nhs treatment . the independent Health Foundation underline the scale of the crisis by predict that 8 million people could be wait for treatment by next summer — that be our constituent , who be " anxious for a diagnosis , in avoidable pain and with their life put on hold " . this represent a failure by the Government to provide the quality of leadership , and the imagination and resource , to modernise the NHS . nothing in the King ' s Speech suggest that change of the magnitude need be come soon . in Harrow , over the past 10 year we have see the pressure in the NHS building , as three walk - in centre — the Alexandra Avenue clinic in Rayners Lane , Belmont Health Centre and the Pinn Medical Centre — have close due to lack of funding . they allow my constituent to walk in off the street and see a doctor or nurse within minute . that reduce the pressure on local doctor and , crucially , on the A & E department at Northwick Park Hospital . not surprisingly , wait time in that A & E department have rocket . Northwick Park ' s A & E have not meet the target of see 95 % of patient within four hour of arrival since before 2016 . indeed , almost 92 , 000 patient wait more than four hour across the trust ' s A & E department in the year to September . that be not a criticism of the staff , who be do a remarkable job in difficult circumstance . what be self - evident from the figure I have describe , which be not the bad in London by a long way , be that additional funding be essential . give that Northwick Park have the busy A & E department in London , and that all complex surgery case across a trust that serve most of north - west London be undertake there , clinician have identify that a 50 % expansion in intensive care bed — from 24 to 36 — be essential . the exist bed be house in convert ward that be not fit for purpose , so invest in a modern intensive care unit will save life , improve the care of very ill patient , free up space for more bed to manage winter pressure and improve the work condition of hard - press NHS staff . cancer service be also under intense pressure nationally and in my area . the failure of leadership on cancer by the party in government be well epitomise by the continue uncertainty around the future of one of Britain ' s world famous cancer unit , which sit just outside my constituency at Mount Vernon Hospital . John Major ' s Conservative Government close the support accident and emergency unit , and , one by one , other link service that support the cancer unit have also disappear from the hospital site . since 2019 , its future have be in doubt , with an independent review commission by the NHS describe the estate as " crumble " and urgent resolution need on the future location of the service . we be five year on from that independent review . despite excellent clinical care , the estate remain dilapidated . no significant funding from the new hospital programme have be forthcoming . staff and patient desperately need clarity on the future of the centre . the party in Government have give up on Mount Vernon , its cancer centre and its patient . the A & E department on the site have be shut , the minor injury unit have be downgrade to an appointment - only service , and the Government will not sort out the future of the cancer centre . the second issue I wish to focus on be the event in the middle east . like so many of my constituent over the past month , and so many other in this House , I have watch the unfold crisis with increase horror . I utterly condemn Hamas ' s appalling and ongoing terror attack on Israel . there can never be any justification for the shocking attack a month ago or the continued holding of hostage . when an innocent be kill , it be equally tragic , whether they be palestinian or israeli . we must uphold the basic fundamental human right of innocent Palestinians too , catch in the crossfire between Hamas and Israel . international law must be uphold . with this the fourth and most horrific clash between Hamas and Israel since the terrorist group take over Gaza , with more than 1 , 400 Israelis and 10 , 000 Palestinians report dead , so many of they child , and with neither Hamas nor the Government of Israel yet to allow a humanitarian pause or a ceasefire , we must not give up look for way to save life , and to end this cycle of misery , violence and fear . military action , rocket , bomb and violence will not deliver long - term justice for the palestinian people , nor long - term security for the israeli people . as so many — from the United Nations to save the child and the excellent medical aid for Palestinians — have already make clear , urgent medical aid , water , food and fuel for hospital must be deliver into Gaza , hostage must be bring home and siege condition lift to alleviate the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza . many year ago , I visit Gaza . at that time , despite considerable barrier to peace , there be hope for a negotiate peaceful future and serious attempt be under way to find a way forward . it be even more essential now to find new route for such a future . as a Minister for International Development in the last Labour Government , I work closely with UN organisation , include the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East . funding to UNWRA be significantly increase but , until a few day ago , Ministers have sadly reverse that investment . UNWRA need new support , long - term commitment and a recognition that it be a fundamental part of the route to help secure both a safe Israel and a sovereign palestinian state . here in our country , the conflict have already have a significant impact — very directly for the family of british citizen kill , injure , take hostage on 7 October or kill and injure in Gaza since . for many other , there be a sense of deep distress , renew anger at the injustice face down the year by the palestinian people , and fear and anger among the jewish community about their safety and security . the rise in antisemitic and islamophobic attack in our community should be a wake - up call to we all to look for way to bring people together rather than to push each other away . now , more than ever , we need to reach for understanding in our own community to find where we can agree — or , at least , where we do not disagree . I say gently to the Home Secretary that perhaps she could lead the way and find the courage to recognise that not everyone who disagree with she be full of hate . we must not allow these tragic event to divide we , and I join all those who call on the Government to step up effort to achieve international co - operation and a sustained political road map to peace . on behalf of the people of Chelmsford , I wish to express my gratitude and respect to his Majesty . history and lesson from across the world tell we that transfer the Crown from one monarch to the next can be deeply unsettling for a nation and can lead to uncertainty . many be concern about the mood of our country and the uncertainty that we would face when our much - beloved Queen pass away , but his Majesty have be remarkable . with dignity , gravita and compassion , both here and overseas , he have ensure that the transfer of the Crown have happen with certainty and deliver stability , despite the fact that people across the world face great insecurity . I grow up in Northern Ireland during the trouble , so security be an important part of my childhood and teenage year . after the birth of my third child and just as I be about to return to work , 9 / 11 happen . my workplace be on the 52nd floor of Canary Wharf tower , so security — or lack of security — be also very much part of my child ' s early year ; and I have always hope that they would see a world that be more peaceful and secure than the one in which I have grow up . I do not think that I have see global security in such a precarious state as it be today for many decade . today mark one month since 7 October , when Hamas rewrite the definition of evil . since that day , when so many Israelis lose their life , we have see the desperate loss of palestinian civilian live as well , and the dire humanitarian situation . the Prime Minister be right in everything he say today about the need of Israel to defend its citizen , the need for a pause in fighting — that be not in our hand to deliver , but in the hand of those who be fight — the need for aid to flow , and the need to minimise civilian casualty . the middle east situation be doubly precarious and the risk of contagion continue . because of all the horror we be see in that region , our eye have go completely off what be happen in Ukraine ; we have forget about the dreadful situation that the woman of Afghanistan still face ; just a few day ago , a young woman in Iran lose her life because she would not wear a headscarf ; and no one be talk about the slaughter that continue in the civil war in Sudan . therefore , it be absolutely right that security be a common theme in this King ' s Speech . I have count that it be mention nine time , include with respect to : health and security ; financial security ; energy security ; security for leaseholder ; national security ; and security across the world . global insecurity bring insecurity at home . we have feel that most acutely in our energy price . on energy security , I agree with the Government that , for so long as this country need to use oil and gas , we should endeavour to produce that domestically , where the production can be do to a high environmental standard , where the carbon cost be low and , most importantly , where we can have more security about the supply . that do not mean that we should take our eye off the ball when it come to climate change . climate change not only cause fire , flood and food shortage , but fuel conflict . address climate change remain one of our big challenge . we know that it be not easy , and the Government be right that we must bring people with we , but we must not suggest to people that this issue do not matter and we should not lower our leadership on it . as a member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , I look forward to hear from the Secretary of State tomorrow . I come from an NHS family . I think that I have tell member previously that my parent be NHS doctor , my husband be an NHS doctor , and my sister be an NHS doctor . I do not think that I have update you , Mr Deputy Speaker , but my son have recently get engage to a medical student , and my niece have just start she first year at medical school . the doctor be carry on through the generation . I be very pleased that deliver the NHS long - term workforce plan be part of the King ' s Speech . I think the Prime Minister say that this would help we to recruit more doctor , nurse and dentist . incidentally , I be very glad that the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , who do so much on NHS workforce planning , be here in the Chamber today . it be right that we recruit more doctor and nurse — indeed , there be more doctor and nurse now than there be at the start of this Government ' s tenure — because we be a grow population and we always need more . we need not only to recruit , but to train and retain our doctor and nurse . over the past 13 year , I have be really pleased to see how apprenticeship , especially nursing apprenticeship , have help to train more people into that profession . these apprenticeship have be champion by Anglia Ruskin University in Chelmsford . I hope that one of the thing that the Minister for Health and Secondary Care will do be to look at introduce a doctor apprenticeship . that would mean , for example , that someone who have be a paediatric nurse could retrain and upskill to become a paediatrician . that be the sort of way that we will get very clever training . I hope that he will listen again to my plea to double the size of the medical school in my constituency , which be do such good work . it be one of the great medical school that be start by this government — a great development of the past 13 year . on the issue of retention , I be pleased to hear that there may be a bit more warmth in some of the consultation with senior doctor . that be what I be read in the press , and I hope that it be true . there be important element of opportunity and hope in this Gracious Speech — and not just about football fan or pedicab . we do not have any pedicab in Chelmsford , but we have scooter , which can be challenge sometimes . I warmly welcome the positive news about open up fast - grow new market for trade and continue to work on develop skill . I also welcome a lot of what be in the speech on innovation . Chelmsford have a long history of innovation . it be in Chelmsford more than 100 year ago that Marconi invent radar and the radio , start the modern form of communication that we all enjoy today . the digital revolution be accelerate fast and fast because of AI , so it be absolutely right that the speech talk about harness the positive benefit from AI , such as driverless vehicle , and increase benefit for consumer , such as more choice and low price through the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . I look forward to those . I also have a bit of personal history on some of this innovation stuff . before go into politic , my job be raise money for infrastructure . I have to admit that I help to raise the money to build the UK ' s first mobile phone network . if hon . member ever get totally frustrated with what they see on their phone and say , " why do we ever invent these thing ? " , I be really sorry ; it be partly my fault . I be also very aware that the internet revolution have its dark side . the Internet Watch Foundation have remove 200 , 000 webpage contain self - generate indecent image of child so far this year , represent 95 % of the webpage it have take down in that time . these be image where child be likely to have be groom , coerce or manipulate into perform sexual act via a webcam . one in five of those page contain category a material , the most severe form of child sexual abuse , which would involve penetrative activity , sexual activity with an animal or sadism . on the dark web there be also a significant rise in deepfake drive by artificial intelligence . nearly 3 , 000 image collect in a one - month period on one dark web forum be confirm to be either criminally pseudo - photograph or prohibit image in the UK . many of those image be manipulate to depict well - know celebrity as child abuser . there be also image that de - age celebrity to make they look young than they be . an area of particular concern be that exchange hint and tip through paedophile manual on how to create generative AI or manipulate the technology to that end be not currently illegal , whereas such a manual would be illegal if the image be an actual photograph and not a manipulated one . I welcome the Government ' s initiative on that and the fact that there will be new legislation to tackle digital - enable crime and sexual abuse , include groom . I also welcome the measure that the Government be go to take on tough sentence for the most serious offender , include for rape . I agree with much of what the Government be say , but I want to make clear that I do not agree with every single word that every Minister on our Front Bench use . for example , I do not believe that every person sleep rough be there because of choice . however , I welcome what the Prime Minister say : that the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 have help to prevent 640 , 000 people from become homeless , and that veteran homelessness be at a record low . the advantage of speak late on in this debate be get to listen to what other have say . listen to Opposition Members again and again , one would think that nothing good ever happen in this country , but last week be an exceptionally good week for Chelmsford . on Monday morning , at the break of dawn , the new bridge open — not just any bridge , but the large piece of curve steel infrastructure anywhere in England . it connect the old city of Chelmsford to the new garden community . as people drive over the bridge , if they look down to their left they will see the new railway station be build . it be the first time we have build a new railway station on the great eastern main line in over 100 year . that be Monday . on Tuesday we hear that the outline business case for our new junction , park and ride , cycle route , bus route and pedestrian route have be approve by the Government . that be £ 68 million - worth of investment that will dramatically change transport through the city of Chelmsford . on Wednesday , 9 , 300 household start to get cost of living payment — from the Government ? no ; this be taxpayer ' money , come from some taxpayer to help other . that be good news . on Thursday we hear that many million of pound - worth of investment be come to our hospital , which will help to expand our A & E and our ward to serve our grow population . those be all excellent bit of news for our long - term future , and all secure by the Conservative Government . on Friday , I go to a meeting where the local Lib Dems basically tell I , " nothing good be happen in Chelmsford . " I repeat , good news on Monday , Tuesday , Wednesday , Thursday . I say to Opposition Members : this be a difficult time for many people across this country and across this world . it be a difficult time for diplomacy , a difficult time for democracy and a difficult time for political discourse — but do not talk down our country . well — God save the King ! those be not word that might be expect from someone bring up to have a healthy scepticism of the role of the hereditary principle in a modern democracy , but if the kind of woeful , unambitious and retrograde legislation that have be announce today be what the new monarch will have to put up with for the rest of his reign , he will need all the divine salvation he can get . one person who can be more confident in their ambition be my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) ; I be delighted that she have be select as the candidate for the redrawn constituency of Glasgow North at the next general election . she have be an outstanding Member of this House , and I have every confidence that she will be return at the next election to continue work with the same passion as she do now for her constituent , make the case for a fair , green , healthy , wealthy and independent Scotland . only independence can truly deliver the change Scotland need to tackle the cost of live crisis and the challenge that face the world today . the cost of living — and the cost of energy in particular — be the single big issue affect people in Glasgow North today . although inflation rate be go down , that do not mean that price be go down . price be still go up : mortgage and rent , food and grocery bill , car and home insurance and phone and internet cost be all high today than they be under the previous Prime Minister last year , or indeed the Prime Minister before she . while every country in the world have have to deal with the consequence of the pandemic and with the conflict in Ukraine and elsewhere , only the UK have have to deal with the impact of Brexit — a Brexit that 78 % of people in Glasgow North vote against , and that none of the Westminster party be prepared to admit have be nothing short of disastrous . there be nothing in today ' s announcement that deal with any of that . the Government could have announce more energy fuel rebate , mortgage interest rate relief or the kind of action on food price that have be take in Ireland . they could have put in place an essential guarantee so that people definitely have enough to live on , or simply uprated universal credit in line with the recommendation of the United Nations ’ special rapporteur on extreme poverty . instead , there be silence . that silence be echo on the Front Bench of the official Opposition , who be so terrified of do or say anything that might frighten people who vote conservative last time round that their position become almost indistinguishable from that of the Conservatives . the Labour party use to pride itself on deliver devolution to Scotland — on the second attempt and 18 year late , mind you — but now , like the conservative party , it seem to think that a kind of constitutional perfection have be reach and that Scotland ' s Parliament now have all the power it will ever need to continue to be the good wee devolve Parliament in the entire universe . even though the leader of the Labour party in Holyrood say that he would " love " for employment law to be devolve to Scotland — a power that be promise as part of the vow make to voter in 2014 , and that would allow the Scottish Government to drive forward worker ’ right and protection in Scotland — the position of the leader of the Labour party in Westminster be : " you ' ll have have your devolution , so that ' s the end of the matter . " neither side will devolve employment law , but yet again the King ' s Speech lack an employment Bill , which could protect and enhance the right of worker to fair hour , fair pay and fair treatment in the workplace . so , it will probably fall again to the arcane private Member ' s Bill system to try to take forward any improvement . the same appear to be true for large area of animal welfare . Scotland be a nation of animal lover , and although the live animal export Bill announce today be welcome , I hear regularly from constituent who want more action from the Government on puppy smuggling , trophy hunting and animal testing , all of which could be deal with in a wide animal welfare Bill with the Government ' s backing . yet once again , we be face with a year of bit and piece of ad hoc legislation , subject to the whim of Members in turn up on Fridays for private member ' Bills . not content with ignore the welfare of animal , the Government seem determined to ignore the basic right and dignity of some of the poor and most vulnerable member of our society . asylum seeker and refugee I meet in Glasgow North have come here because they have flee conflict , persecution or natural disaster . they have not come just to seek work , but of course they want to be able to work . they do not want to be tell that they have no recourse to public fund and to become destitute . they have valuable skill and experience , and they want to put they to use to earn money , pay for their own accommodation and pay taxis into the system rather than take resource out . however , the Tory Government want to do the opposite of that : they actively want to spend taxpayer ' money to make it more difficult for asylum seeker to make a positive contribution to society and the economy . like other member , the issue I have most hear about from my Glasgow North constituent in recent week be the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas , and the need for an immediate ceasefire . I have receive more than 700 such email at the last count ; many — if not most — be from constituent reach out for the first time , appalled , horrify and sometimes even traumatise by what they be see on the news , especially those who have friend and family in the region . thousand of completely innocent child have be kill — by some count , one child for every 10 minute of the conflict so far — and act of what can only be describe as collective punishment be be inflict on people in Gaza by the Government of Israel . likewise , there be no justification for the atrocity perpetrate by Hamas . nor be there any excuse for antisemitism in any form . at the end of the day , a last settlement can only come about through negotiation and a willingness to come to agreement . that be why a ceasefire , which mean that everybody involve cease fire , must be the start . that be not the position of the Prime Minister or the Leader of the Opposition , but it be the position of the UN Secretary - General , the UN General Assembly , the World Health Organisation , Oxfam , Amnesty International , Scotland ' s First Minister , his Holiness Pope Francis and the many , many Glasgow North constituent who have reach out . they also want aid convoy to be allow in , people who want to leave to be able to do so , and then legitimate representative to get round a table and work out a route to peace . as Pope Paul VI say : " peace be not simply the absence of warfare , base on a precarious balance of power ; it be fashion by effort direct day after day toward the establishment of the order universe will by God , with a more perfect form of justice among man " — more succinctly : " if you want peace , you must work for justice . " the God that he speak of be the God hold to be true by Jews , Muslims and Christians alike — the God who teach in their holy book that we should treat other as we ourselves wish to be treat . in that golden rule of reciprocity lie the route to peace in the middle east , and indeed to peace and justice around the world — in Afghanistan , in Ukraine , in Sudan and in so many other place . we live in a world that be more turbulent and unstable than it seem just eight year ago when many of my colleague and I be elect to this place . not all the challenge can be deal with by a legislative programme announce from a throne in the House of Lords , but we have to consider how good to play our part . the Government ' s shameful cut to the aid budget diminish the UK ' s stand in the world and have do last damage to country and community where programme have be stop or scale back . the forthcoming White Paper might stabilise thing , but it may not be enough , especially if other policy continue to go in the opposite direction . the way to respond to the climate crisis and the challenge of the energy crisis be not to simply carry on as if nothing be happen . we have to wean ourselves off the oil and fossil fuel that be change the planet ' s climate , and invest in clean , green , renewable energy from source that Scotland have in abundance : wave , wind , and — though it may be hard to believe — solar . investment that can use and develop the skill of our workforce and provide new , well - pay job for this and future generation . the petroleum licensing Bill announce today appear to do just the opposite . at a time when we need to be look outward , show leadership on the world stage , the UK Tory Government — and , sadly , their wannabe in the official opposition — be increasingly look inward . the King ' s Speech be largely legislative navel - gaze , try to cobble together interest and support from wherever it can be find in a desperate attempt to stay in power . if that speech , and the official Opposition ' s reaction to it , be literally the good that the UK can do , then the UK be frankly no long fit for purpose . Scotland can and must , and in the end will , do much well than this . independence would give we the power and opportunity to tackle the cost of live crisis at home and the climate crisis across the globe . it be time , as the late , great Winnie Ewing say , to stop the world , because Scotland want to get on . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate on the Humble Address . People in my constituency be alarmed and appal at the disregard for palestinian life that have be demonstrate widely in the recent period . it be therefore very concern that the King ' s Speech do not include a commitment to secure a ceasefire on both side in Gaza and the release of all hostage , along with a condemnation of war crime and crime against humanity . this be not an abstract point ; this be a live issue . the situation be urgent . figure from Gaza indicate that over 10 , 000 palestinian civilian have now die — over 10 , 000 in just 30 day — almost half of whom be child . accord to save the Children , the number of palestinian child kill in Gaza by last week ' s figure have already surpass the annual number of child kill across the world ' s conflict zone since 2019 . Gaza , in the word of UN Secretary - General Antonio Guterres , be become a " graveyard for child " . it be beyond unacceptable that child be pay the ultimate price amidst the failure of political leader in the US , the UK and Europe to call for an immediate ceasefire and oppose violation of international law . every hour , every day , the number of death get high and high , and the report and image of the impact of the military bombardment on refugee camp , hospital and school be simply horrify . nothing — nothing — can justify these crime against humanity that we be witness in real time . can the Government confirm why they seem to understand that kill thousand of child in response to the horrific killing and hostage taking that include child on 7 October be either moral or in keep with international law ? can the Government clarify why they support the collective punishment and killing of innocent civilian as a legitimate response to the killing of innocent civilian ? can the Government confirm whether any weapon trade from the UK have be use to kill any child or civilian ? all life should be value and cherished — israeli and palestinian — yet the ongoing dehumanisation and collective punishment of palestinian civilian will be mark as a terrible crime against humanity for year to come . my constituent — multicultural , multiracial , from all faith and none — would have like the King ' s Speech to address the long - term situation for Palestine . I be receive daily communication argue that the UK Government must do far more to address human right violation and illegal settlement in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , the ongoing oppression of the palestinian people and the forced eviction and dispossession . the King ' s Speech should have reflect a responsibility to follow through on an international commitment to uphold international law and do all we can to ensure a just and last peace base on justice and human right . I be also disappointed to see that the King ' s Speech do not indicate that the Government will finally recognise Islamophobia or take measure to address the soar level of hate crime against Muslims . indeed , the King ' s Speech do not even mention that it be Islamophobia Awareness Month , and nor do the Prime Minister in his speech today . I be currently face death threat and a torrent of Islamophobic and misogynistic abuse . in fact , I have receive such abuse since be elect and put myself forward as a candidate for election . I have receive comment include : " vile and filthy religion . . . import vile and filthy creature like Apsana Begum " . the situation be escalate , not least exacerbate by those try to capitalise on current event by spread hate and division . I be now face a heighten risk to my safety , with serious death threat , threat to kidnap I , threat of sexual violence and threat about rip off my hijab in public ; it go on and on . follow the murder of Jo Cox MP and of Sir David Amess MP , the Jo Cox Foundation have say : " abuse and intimidation of elect representative , include violence towards they , be a grow threat to democracy . " it highlight that " Abuse can make elect representative feel they need to step down and put potential future candidate off stand altogether — with woman , people from a minority ethnic background , and those with disability suffer a disproportionate level of this behaviour . " as we know , the problem be widespread and endemic . every single day , people of muslim background like I face discrimination and prejudice . the prevalence of negative stereotype , harassment and hate crime be only part of a whole structure of discrimination . Muslims be the most economically disadvantaged faith group in the UK , with some report show that half of british Muslims face poverty and deprivation . at the same time , we face institutionalise Islamophobia . not only do the King ' s Speech fail to address the fact that Muslims live with a constant and persistent fear overshadow our life , but it fail to address the role of government and politician , even though the UN special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief have report that institutional suspicion and fear of Muslims have escalate to " epidemic proportion " and that " numerous " state , regional and international body be to blame . how do that relate to leak Government document about plan to clamp down on freedom of expression that could unjustly label organisation such as the Muslim Council of Britain as extremist ? in conclusion , I believe in human right , equality and dignity for all . my constituent deserve more than a Government who think and act otherwise . may I extend my thought to my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) , who have be target , particularly in the last , very difficult , month ? it remind I very much of what my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) talk about as a jewish MP when she be target . it seem to be even more intense for woman MPs . I be grateful to the Speaker ' s Office and the Speaker ' s team , which have reach out more than once to mps to re - engage with we over safety concern . I hope that my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse have take the practical measure that the House have put in place . the Speaker have be exceptional in introduce many new measure to help mps at this critical time , when foreign policy be sensitive . organisation such as tell MAMA UK , which look at the number of attack on Muslims , and the Community Security Trust , which record the alarming rise and increase in attack on the jewish community , underline the importance of security , take a record and make sure that we be as safe as we can possibly be . the theme of security come up in the King ' s Speech , and I be pleased that the King mention the sensitive time that we be go through , as he have a record of interfaith work . one of the most helpful thing I do during Prorogation be attend two synagogue in my constituency , where I take part in prayer for Israel . I also attend the London Islamic Cultural Society mosque in my constituency , as well as the interfaith group that meet every couple of month in the constituency , usually to discuss interfaith work , but in the context of the unfold tragedy in Israel and Gaza , to talk about how we as a community can respond to the horror of the attack that Hamas perpetrate in the south of Israel on 7 October , a month ago today , and the feeling of despair and sadness experience by family whose loved one be still in tunnel somewhere in Gaza , as well as the terrible television coverage and newspaper report of the situation in Gaza . I think the Financial Times report a week ago that people in Gaza be run out of shroud in which to wrap the fatality , and be have to build mass grave , which be a terrible moment for any humanitarian organisation . I be pleased that tomorrow we will hear from the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who will update the House on the UK ' s role . it be good to see cross - party support for the UK ' s role in humanitarian action that can be take to try to save life , even at this most intense and difficult time . I now turn to a domestic concern that I have arise from the King ' s Speech , and that be the housing question . many member have say in the debate this afternoon that the leasehold provision do not go far enough , and I share those concern . since I be elect in 2015 , I have have hundred of email from leaseholder about the lack of protection they feel with their housing tenure . I look forward to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be amend in Committee to strengthen its provision , so that leaseholder be not negatively affect financially in the come year . I want briefly to put on the record my concern about rough sleeping . in the last 24 hour , I have be approach by three beggar . one be on the Thameslink service , who have clearly have addiction issue ; another be a 19 - year - old girl who approach I at King ' s Cross St Pancras , who have obviously be assault and be sleep rough , and she be beg for help , and money of course ; and the third be an autistic man , who approach I once again ask for money . I do feel that beg and rough sleeping have get quite extreme in the last couple of month . many people will have read the newspaper coverage about how the United Nations have underline the grow inequality we have in the UK and the need for we to act with much more energy in address it . the food bank in my constituency have just write to give I the update that , in the three hour it be open last week — it be open just once a week — there be 369 request for food parcel . that figure have go up enormously . we all hope back in 2010 that food bank would be need just for a brief moment while the economy right itself follow the global financial crash . sadly , it have become business as usual to have all these food bank , and we all live to see a world without food bank . I want briefly to mention other housing tenure . on the rented sector , a constituent write to I to say that their landlord have decide to increase the monthly rent from £ 1 , 470 to £ 1 , 720 overnight . in a further email , they tell I : " we originally think we ' d be able to buy our own property around this time but with current interest rate … we definitely can ' t afford it . " a year ago , we have the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) as our Prime Minister , and unfortunately we still have not recover financially from that period . a constituent in another rental property tell I : " my partner and I be look to stay in our one - bedroom flat " , but the let agent want to put up the rent by £ 500 a month . they already pay £ 1 , 900 , and this " be absolutely crazy . we be very good tenant ; we fix thing ourselves and keep the property in an excellent condition " . another constituent tell I : " I just want to say that today our rent be increase by 24 % . the landlord ' s agent would not accept any negotiation . our phone , utility , etc bill go up annually by the rate of inflation + 4 % . I ' ve be a tenant here for 20 year . " that be obviously get extremely serious . sadly , I have also notice the impact on the high street in area such as mine . normally , a place such as Crouch end would be very vibrant , but I have notice a number of high street shop close just in the last two month . what be once an area with a very vibrant villagey feel have one shop close almost every two or three week , because people be so expose to high mortgage payment and high rent payment that they be not able to keep the high street go . to give just one example , a constituent tell I : " our mortgage have increase from £ 1 , 950 to £ 3 , 000 a month and this have clearly have a significant impact on our household income . I have have to reduce my monthly pension contribution and we have both change our work hour to reduce our childcare cost . such be the pressure on lender that the deal take month to go through , which in itself be agonisingly stressful . we wait and watch on as mortgage deal be pull left , right and centre , aware that if our deal have fall through then we would have have to reapply at high and high rate . I note that if we be to switch at today ' s rate , our payment would be at least £ 3500 with further increase likely through to 2024 . it ' s an absolute mess . " the final element I will talk about be the social housing sector — the other tenure we have in the borough . I want to put on the record what so many other have say : we be simply not build enough home , and the supply of new home need to be address with urgency . completion of new home have drop again this month , and we desperately need more supply so that we have somewhere to house the future generation . constituent be write to I say that they have several child in a one - bedroom flat , and nowhere for their child to study . the impact on the education and mental health of my constituent be extreme . building new home would provide opportunity . as a local authority leader in a previous life , we find that by build new home we be able to have an excellent apprenticeship scheme . this seem to I a great opportunity for green job , for more training and skill development for engineer , for the construction industry to introduce insulation , and to introduce new home that be more effective in term of the environment . I hope that the Government will listen and get on with build those new home , not just to alleviate the terrible overcrowding that we see , but to give people hope , a future and a sense of security . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) and before that my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) , who speak so vividly and importantly about the death threat and abuse that she face , which no Member of Parliament should ever have to face . we face difficult time with challenge at home and abroad . we need strong leadership and a clear plan to bring growth , stability and renewal back to our community across the country . all the King ' s Speech show we be gimmick and division , with no plan for the future , let family and hard - work people down . it be more of the same tired politic . day after day , my office and I get call from increasingly desperate people . we have become overwhelmed with cry for help — a single mother who have be cut off from her child maintenance ; a father who work full time but have be evict , along with his family , because of rent hike ; a disabled pensioner suddenly find that her support have be drastically cut . just last week a constituent call , ready to take her own life . the Department for Work and Pensions be not respond to she , and she have be pass from pillar to post . thing become too much to bear . it pain I to say this , but that be not a unique incident . such call to I or to my office be now commonplace and be the result of 13 year of Tory neglect . the Tories think that this King ' s Speech will put that right ; it win ' t . we need a government who will restore economic stability and lift living standard . we need a government who will make work pay , rebuild our public service , and invest in homegrown business and industry . we need to restore hope in our politic , and that be what Labour will do . with the backdrop of the bad energy bill crisis in a generation , one of the wet summer on record , and storm and flood ravage our community , the world be face a climate crisis . this Government have use the King ' s Speech to announce legislation to award new oil and gas licence annually , claim that it will ensure energy security when , in reality , it just increase our reliance on fossil fuel , push we far into dependency . that be the same dependency that cause the bad cost of live crisis in almost a hundred year . the bad bit be that this government openly admit just yesterday that these measure will not cut energy bill by a single penny . if this Government have ever try to bring down energy bill for british family , it be safe to say that they have now give up . instead , the Government choose to hand billion of taxpayer subsidy to the oil and gas company that be already make eye - water profit , continue to undermine our energy security and to contribute to the climate catastrophe — a catastrophe make significant bad by the Government refuse to reappoint a Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office special representative for climate change after they scrap the role . labour will put that right , and we will put investment in renewable at the heart of our growth plan , create job for the future and ensure that profit from oil and gas giant go straight into the pocket of those who need they . I be proud of my Cardiff North constituency for its commitment to the fight climate change . just this week , I support the Coed Caerdydd project and plant tree in a bid to make Cardiff a carbon - neutral city by 2030 . in the summer , as part of the Keep Wales Tidy campaign , our local community launch the Llanishen litter - picker group . they meet every Saturday of the month , and we can see the difference that their dedication make . incredible local , family - run business Iechyd Da and Siop Sero be commit to reduce waste , set an example of local , climate and environmental leadership . let we be clear , however , that the climate crisis and cost of living crisis go hand in hand , and we can not consider one without the other . it be a very real crisis as we enter these cold winter month . my constituent Emily live alone and be force to leave work due to mental health difficulty . in her own word , she say : " I be unable to put the heating on due to be in debt . I can ' t do a food shop anymore . I buy food when I can . which be hardly ever . I ' m in debt with pretty much every bill I have come out . " she be in debt because of household bill for the essential of daily life . I be proud that Cardiff Council and the Welsh Labour Government step up when the Tory Government do not and create Cardiff Money Advice , offer free advice in hub across the city . it offer a warm , comfortable place to go for support and to have a hot drink . where in this King ' s Speech be the support for victim ? yes , we have the Victims and Prisoners Bill come , but in term of violence against woman and girl , just two in 100 rape last year result in someone be charge , let alone convict . how be any rape survivor in this country suppose to feel anything but neglect ? the very system set up to protect they be let perpetrator off scot - free , while they be deny the support and protection they desperately need . they be simply an afterthought , alone and unsupported , like many across the country right now face with a Government who have frankly give up on govern — a Government who have use this King ' s Speech to pull political stunt instead of bring the meaningful change that only Labour can deliver . before I finish , I will touch on the international event we be see unfold . I normally speak from the Front Bench on these matter , but I feel it be important to say a few word as a constituency MP represent my constituent of Cardiff North . in the conflict in Ukraine , we stand wholeheartedly with Ukraine against Putin ' s illegal invasion . also , just one month ago , Hamas ' s horrific , brutal terror attack on innocent Israelis and Jews shock I and all of we to our core . like many , I be horrify by the ongoing humanitarian catastrophe , violence and devastation that be impact many thousand of innocent people — include woman and child — in Gaza . our priority must be to protect innocent civilian , to ensure that food , water and support reach they , and to ensure that international law be uphold . I have reach out to the jewish and muslim community in my constituency to ensure that we do not allow these event to divide we , and that any hate — Islamophobia or antisemitism — be call out . I be proud that Wales be a country that welcome those of all faith , all culture and all background . we must ensure that it stay like that . the only solution to the crisis be a peaceful and political one : a two - state solution that recognise both a secure Israel and a Palestine where Palestinians live freely . that leadership must come from all of we . at a time of great vulnerability in the world , it be important that we all show that leadership . I know that Cardiff North stand with those seek that peaceful , diplomatic solution . we must work together to achieve that long - term solution ; we must not allow these tragic event to divide we . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Fay Jones . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . dangerous driving : unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Fay Jones . ) on the evening of 15 January this year , Paul Carter , his wife Lisa , and Jade Mace — Lisa ' s daughter from her first marriage — be kill when Aurelijus Cielevicius crash his car into theirs . three innocent life be end . I stand here this evening to speak on behalf of my constituent Summer Mace , who lose her mum , sister and stepfather on that awful evening , and her family and friend who provide 28 victim personal statement to the court . I have meet Summer and her father , and hear just a little bit about the terrible impact that this crime have have on they and their wide family and friend . the fact of the case be shocking . the offender ' s speed be so excessive that when he pass a police officer in a marked police vehicle in a layby , the officer be unable to note the registration number . prior to the crash , he go through two red light , almost cause another collision , and cross solid white no - overtake line on multiple occasion . other motorist on the road that night say that he be travel at speed of 100 mph and struggle to stay in control of the vehicle , include when the crash happen , where he be on the wrong side of the road and unable to get back to the left - hand lane . all of that be while he be on a cocktail of drug , include be 15 time over the limit after take crystal meth , and with high level of cannabis in his system . the family tell I that CCTV show Cielevicius drive through red light with blue light visible in the background , although the judge do not accept that he know he be be follow by the police at the time of the crash . the collision investigator estimate that when the driver crash into the other vehicle head - on , kill Paul , Lisa , and Jade , he be travel at 91 mph . he be only slightly injure . on 20 June , Cielevicius be convict of three count of cause death by dangerous driving . it be unacceptable that , after a guilty plea be take into account , this offender be sentence to only 10 and a half year for kill three people . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . the hon . Gentleman mention that this person be under the influence of drug . my question be probably one for the Minister , through the hon . Gentleman . although the Government place great emphasis on tackle those who be over the limit for alcohol , perhaps they do not place the same emphasis on drug . in my constituency , the availability of drug seem to be grow by the day . with that in mind , do the hon . Gentleman believe that the Government and the police need to place great emphasis on testing and catch driver who be under the influence of drug , thereby reduce accident ? I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman . we be all familiar with the annual Christmas drink - drive campaign and other campaign throughout the year , and I think Norfolk Constabulary have also do some drug - testing campaign . I encourage other police force to do the same , because it be not just about alcohol ; it be also about drug , as in this case . the primary purpose of tonight ' s debate be to highlight the serious issue raise by this case with sentencing and the unduly lenient sentence scheme , as well as to propose some change to the criminal justice system . in the Government ' s Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , Parliament legislate to increase the maximum sentence for this offence from 14 year to life imprisonment . we do that to reflect the devastation that such crime inflict . as Summer write in a petition call for change in our criminal justice system : " my family be give a life sentence the day that man kill my loved one . a life sentence that I will never be release from . on 15th January , he kill our future life , thought and hope — as we have none without they . " summer and her family can not understand why the life sentence they have be deal have not be impose on this offender . the petition that Summer organise have be sign by over 13 , 000 people , and the family be work alongside other family and charity such as RoadPeace , with its " Fix our Broken Justice System " campaign , to try to make a difference . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate . in my constituency of Somerton and Frome , we be recently shock by the tragic death of two young sister , Liberty and Madison , who be kill as they drive on the A361 bypass near Frome . they be kill because speed limit be ignore , on a road that have see many traffic accident in recent year . do he agree that our road traffic law be fail , and that the victim of criminal driving and their family need confidence that our legal system will deliver justice ? we increase the maximum sentence for this crime to life imprisonment precisely to try to address those concern . I now want to come to whether the system be actually work , in the sense that court be impose the sentence that this Parliament have legislate for . the judge class this as a level 1 case — the most serious — owe to a prolonged , persistent and deliberate course of very bad driving . in her sentencing remark , she highlight the follow aggravating factor : three people be kill ; there be greatly excessive speed ; the driver know he be deprive of sufficient sleep ; he have consume drug above the legal limit — there be a cocktail of drug in his system ; he have previous conviction for motor offence — drive while disqualify , drive with excess alcohol and two count of drive with no insurance ; and he be on police bail for a drive offence at the time and in breach of curfew condition . there be six aggravating factor , yet the judge go on to state that a sentence after a trial would have be 14 year , when the maximum sentence legislate for by this Parliament be life imprisonment . the simple question that many people have be : why ? a particular concern in this case be the timeliness of sentence guideline . from June 2022 , the maximum penalty for cause death by dangerous driving be increase to life imprisonment , as I have mention , yet it be not until 1 July 2023 that new sentencing guideline take effect . how and why can there be such a gap ? as it happen , new guideline be publish on 15 June 2023 , before the judge pass her sentence , but they be not in effect . they increase the starting point for a level 1 offence from eight year in custody to 12 year , with a range of eight to 18 year . furthermore , the Solicitor General , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) personally argue , in the Luis Balcazar Soto case in the Court of Appeal in 2022 , that pende the new sentencing guideline , judge should increase sentence impose for the most serious such offence to reflect the increase in the maximum sentence legislate for by this House . have read the judgment carefully and the starting point select , I do not consider that that be what happen in this case , when three people be kill . my constituent also question the approach to concurrent sentence . the totality guideline state that where more than one death be cause and they be charge in separate count , as happen in this case , sentence reflect the overall criminality would be appropriate , and to ensure that sentence be " just and proportionate " . again , it be difficult to accept that that happen in this case , where a single concurrent sentence be give . the sentence be refer to the Attorney General on behalf of the family . however , my hon . and learn Friend the Solicitor General , act on her behalf , decline to refer the matter to the Court of Appeal under the unduly lenient sentence scheme . in the response to the family , he state that the judge characterise the offence accurately and identify the correct starting point . the question the family have be this : what far aggravating factor would justify a high sentence and a referral ? a particular source of anger , and the reason the family lack confidence in the review , be that the letter explain why the sentence would not be refer talk about the judge as a he , when in fact the judge be a she . it be perhaps not surprising that , as a result , my constituent , who suffer this very traumatic experience , be concerned that their case be not look at properly . can my hon . and learn Friend assure my constituent that it be carefully consider , and tell they whether experience King ' s Counsel provide advice on the case , have review the judgment ? my constituent have a specific request for my hon . and learn Friend . will he agree to meet I and the family to explain those reason directly to they in more detail ? sadly , this case be not unique and RoadPeace have highlight the case of four family , include Summer ' s , and the fact that no one have yet receive a life sentence for this crime . as well as the contribution this evening , a number of other hon . and right hon . member approach I in the House today , once it be know that this debate be take place , to highlight similar case in their constituency where inadequate sentence be impose . nothing will bring back Lisa Carter , Paul Carter or Jade Mace , but their family be committed to help make change to prevent other family from experience the nightmare that they have . they have identify four principal area where action be need to put the right of victim and their bereaved family ahead of offender . first , the family want a thorough review of all the evidence relate to this case , as , as I have explain , they do not consider it be properly review . to that end , I hope my hon . and learn Friend will agree to meet the family to explain in great detail how the case be consider and how the unduly lenient sentence test be apply . secondly , the family call for long sentence . Parliament legislate for a maximum sentence of life imprisonment for the most serious case . give that , it be essential that the appropriateness of the sentencing guideline for this offence be review . how can it be right that someone who kill three people in such terrible circumstance could be out of prison in just seven and a half year ? that be two and a half year each for the life of Lisa , Paul and Jade . the guideline need to be revise in line with Parliament ' s intent to ensure that long sentence be impose . if the unduly lenient scheme threshold be set too cautiously , it should also be look at to help inspire public confidence . thirdly , the bail system should be improve . as I mention , at the time of the crash , the offender be on bail for a drive offence and subject to a curfew , but tagging be not available for police bail , so when he break the curfew , no one know . if he have be tag , it be possible that this appalling crime may have be prevent . one of the change my constituent and all those who sign the petition want to see be curfew control — for example , with a tag — and strict sanction for failure to comply with bail condition . this be a simple , common - sense reform to make our bail system more robust , and I hope the Government will take it forward . fourthly , to ordinary people it be offensive that multiple life can be take but concurrent rather than consecutive sentence impose . again , consideration should be give for the totality sentence guideline to be review for offender convict of multiple death simultaneously , so that there be a shift towards impose consecutive sentence . finally , thousand of people have sign another petition support a lifetime driving ban for people who be convict of cause death by dangerous driving . in this case , a ban for a period of eight year be consider appropriate , extend to 15 year to take account of the time that the offender will be in prison . the court have the power to impose lifetime ban , and RoadPeace be campaign for they to be apply . the Government should consider whether it should become a mandatory element in some case , because driving be a privilege and not a right . I recognise that a number of the issue I have raise fall to other Ministers and other Departments , and I seek the assistance of my hon . and learn Friend in ensure that the point I have make be follow up after the debate , in writing and also through meeting . there be an opportunity — through the criminal justice and sentencing Bills announce in the King ' s Speech , and through the power of the Lord Chancellor to request review of sentence guideline — to ensure that tough sentence be impose and serve . that be what our constituent want , and what they expect . for this family the nightmare will not end , but by make change we can try to prevent other from suffer it . this debate be part of the process of put forward those change . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) for secure this important debate . dangerous driving , especially when it result in death or injury , be a most serious offence , which be rightly condemn by all in this House . I know how seriously my hon . friend take the issue , and I be grateful to he for his engagement in this matter . I thank he particularly for raise the case of his constituent Paul and Lisa Carter and Lisa ' s daughter , Jade Mace . he set out his case very clearly , with passion and with compassion . I offer my sincere condolence and pay tribute to what be clearly a close - knit and love family , and particularly to Summer , who lose her mother , sister and stepfather in this incident . their pain and suffering be unimaginable . as the learn judge rightly say at the sentencing hearing : " nothing I say [ nor ] any sentence I pass can make up for the loss of three life or assuage the grief of their love one . " I will turn to my hon . friend ' s specific point in a moment , but let I start by set out some general principle of the scheme to which he rightly refer , the unduly lenient sentence scheme . in exercise my function of review sentence under the ULS scheme , I act quasi - judicially . my role , and that of the Attorney General , be to act as a guardian of the public interest . I share my hon . friend ' s desire to ensure that those responsible for terrible crime be properly punish , and it must be say that in the vast majority of case , sentence judge get it right . they deal with a range of case that vary in complexity and severity , and I take this opportunity to commend they for their work . let I put that into context . of more than 91 , 000 case deal with in the Crown court in 2022 , more than 1 , 100 be refer to the Attorney General ' s Office , of which 819 be eligible for the ULS scheme . of those , 139 be refer to the Court of Appeal , which grant leave to refer in 77 % of they . those statistic have be publish on the Attorney General ' s website . the ULS scheme promote justice , fairness and consistency . it allow sentence which be unduly lenient to be increase , and it be there to correct an error when the judge get it wrong . it be important to note , however , that it do not apply to sentence that be simply lenient . as the Court of Appeal have say repeatedly , " sentencing be an art rather than a science … leniency be not in itself a vice . that mercy should season justice be a proposition as soundly base in law as it be in literature . " the test of undue leniency be a high one . Parliament rightly intend that the Court of Appeal would grant permission to refer a sentence only in exceptional circumstance : for example , if the judge have pass a sentence that fall outside the range of sentence which a judge could properly consider appropriate , or if there have be some gross error in law or principle . I turn now to the specific offence of cause death by dangerous driving . as my hon . Friend say , the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 come into force on 28 June that year , and I know he welcome it . when it do , there be two significant change to the law . the first be the increase in the maximum penalty from 14 year to life imprisonment and , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) note , this be not just for those under the influence of drink ; it also for those under the influence of drug . I be grateful to he for make that point . the second change relate to the minimum disqualification period . the Government change the law to increase both the maximum period of imprisonment and the minimum driver disqualification period for those who commit the most serious road traffic offence , ensure that they be keep off our road for a long period . my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk mention the sentencing guideline , and I shall turn specifically to that now . he be right to say that the revise sentencing guideline come into force on 1 July 2023 . between 28 June 2022 and 1 July 2023 , the court be oblige to look to the old guideline , but as a result of the Court of Appeal case in which I appear in the Court of Appeal , the court provide judge with guidance on how to sentence those case in the in - between period . judge be encourage to apply an uplift to the provisional sentence identify , to reflect the increase in the maximum penalty . I emphasise that that happen in this case and that the learn judge specifically refer to the Court of Appeal case of Waite and Balcazar Soto . I pay tribute to the work of the independent Sentencing Council for its development of the guideline . I understand my hon . friend ' s point about timing . he be right that this have take a long time , but it be inevitable that it will take time for guideline to be produce follow an appropriate consultation , as happen here . in the meantime , the Court of Appeal can give guidance , as also happen here . on totality , my hon . friend mention concurrent sentence . judge must consider the totality of offend when sentence for more than one offence . the totality guideline have also be revise , and the revise guideline come into force on 1 July 2023 . the overriding principle of totality be that the overall sentence should reflect all the offend behaviour and that it should be just and proportionate . in relation to the sentence for the offence of cause death by dangerous driving , the starting point and category range relate to a single offence result in a single death . where more than one person be kill , that will of course aggravate the seriousness of the offence because of the increase in harm . however , where more than one death be cause and they be charge on separate count , concurrent sentence reflect the overall criminality be appropriate where the offending or the harm arise out of a single incident , but there will be an increase in the sentence to reflect the increase harm . I note the point that my hon . friend have make . let I turn to my hon . friend ' s other point on life sentence . cause death by dangerous driving be a specified offence for the purpose of sentencing . this mean that a judge can impose a discretionary life sentence , or an extended sentence if they determine that the offender be what be know as a dangerous offender . a dangerous offender be someone who pose a significant risk of cause serious harm to member of the public . an extended sentence consist of a custodial term that reflect the seriousness of the offending , follow by an extended licence period , which be determine on the basis of what the court consider necessary for the purpose of protect member of the public . this mean that , unlike under a determinate sentence , the offender be not automatically release at the halfway or two - third point of the sentence . it mean that they can apply for parole after they have serve two third of their sentence , and will be release only if the Parole Board determine that they be no long a danger to the public . they must of course be release at the end of the custodial period , but they will remain on licence until the expiry of the extended period . the learn judge in this case explain that very process in her sentencing remark . I offer my sincere apology to the family for the fact that my letter to they refer to the judge incorrectly . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that point . it be an error , it be my error , and I apologise . however , the case be carefully consider . they all be , but perhaps especially those involve such tragic consequence , and especially so give that my hon . friend specifically bring this case to my attention . I be grateful to my hon . friend for secure this debate . the ULS scheme be not a mystery , and neither should it be , but it be not often that we have the opportunity to debate the scheme in detail , as we have this evening . I be grateful to he for provide that opportunity . he specifically request that I meet he and the family and , yes , of course I will . I close by commend the family once more for their bravery in raise this case and for their determination to ensure that other family do not suffer as they have . question put and agree to . House adjourn .