with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement to the House about the action the Chancellor will take this week to fix the foundation and rebuild Britain . economic growth and modern public service can only be build on strong foundation . that be why this Government have bring political and economic stability back to Britain . after year of chaos from the conservative party — chaos that cost family , business and public service dear — the british people be now rightly look to this new Labour Government to clear up the mess from the last government , fix the foundation and rebuild Britain . that be the change that my party promise the country , and it be the change that we will deliver . to deliver that change , the fiscal rule that the Chancellor will set out this week will establish the basis for stable fiscal policy , mean careful management of day - to - day spending and responsible long - term plan to invest and grow the economy . as we commit to in our manifesto , the Government will have two robust fiscal rule that will guide the decision we take . the first be our stability rule : we will pay for all day - to - day spending on public service from receipt . the budget be last in surplus under the last Labour Government , and this Labour Government will return the public finance to that position . the second be our investment rule , which will get debt fall as a proportion of our economy . it will ensure that we can secure the investment that our economy need to grow , and to generate job and opportunity for people across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , while maintain a strong fiscal anchor and ensure that our debt burden fall over time . the plan that we inherit from the last Government would have see public sector investment decline to the low level in more than 10 year . the path of decline investment be the path of a decline nation , and we refuse to follow it . instead , we will seize the huge opportunity of the future to support the enterprise and talent that this country create . the Government recognise that sustain public investment be a crucial driver of long - term economic growth , give the private sector the confidence to invest too , but our ambition for public sector investment must be balance against the need to maintain debt on a sustainable trajectory and ensure that we invest every pound of taxpayer ' money responsibly . that be why I will deliver a 10 - year national infrastructure strategy next spring , work with colleague across Government , the nation and region , and with our mayor and the private sector , to set out a robust long - term strategy for sound investment . that be also why our new approach to overlap multi - year spending review will improve the way that we allocate and spend capital , and why the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and I will lead the new national infrastructure and service transformation authority , which will drive well delivery of major project and infrastructure across the country . in addition , there will be the work of the new office for value for money and the National Audit Office . those robust guardrail will ensure that our capital spending be value for money , and that our financial investment deliver a positive return for the Exchequer . finally , the Chancellor have be listen to the view of institution such as the International Monetary Fund , and to expert economist . as she have set out , that be why the Treasury have be review the right measure of debt to target in the fiscal rule ahead of the upcoming Budget . the detail of that policy will be announce to the House in the Chancellor ' s statement on Wednesday , alongside an economic and fiscal forecast produce by the independent Office for Budget Responsibility . in the usual way , the fiscal rule will be publish in a draft charter for budget responsibility , on which member will vote in due course . I commend this statement to the House .