Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Crown Court Backlog what step her Department be take to reduce the backlog of Crown court case . what step she be take to reduce the backlog of Crown court case . what step her Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . we be fund 106 , 500 Crown court sit day this financial year — 500 day more than the previous Government originally agree . to reduce the number of case that end up at the Crown court , we be also extend magistrate ' sentence power to up to 12 month for an individual offence . it be important that victim of crime have the swift access to justice that they deserve , so I welcome the extra funding from this government that will lead to more than 106 , 000 sitting day in Crown court this financial year . that include nearly 3 , 000 in the Crown court in Kent . do the Minister agree that deal with the court backlog leave by the Conservatives be essential to make sure that offender be quickly bring to justice and faith be restore in the criminal justice system ? I agree . this Government inherit a record and rise Crown court backlog . we walk into a criminal justice system on the brink of collapse , with our prison overflow and our court buckle under the weight of demand . while we can not fix this mess overnight , we will do everything we can to ensure swift justice for victim and to restore faith in the entire system . I be sure the Minister will acknowledge that the Crown court backlog be cause by a combination of covid and strike action by barrister . will she outline the step she will be take to continue Nightingale court sitting and to improve the quality and number of Crown court judge sit and able to hear case ? we be currently operate 18 Nightingale court in eight different location , and we continue to recruit to the judiciary . the Conservatives can not wash their hand of responsibility for the Crown court backlog . it be rise before covid . they close more than 260 court building . they express concern now , but there be scant evidence of that in the 14 year they be in power . last week it be report that the Crown court backlog be 71 , 000 case , which could hit 100 , 000 unless radical action be take . some case have not proceed at all because of delay , include those involve victim of serious offence such as rape , reinforce that justice delay be justice deny . I welcome the Chancellor ' s Budget , confirm the significant financial investment in prison expansion and the Ministry of Justice funding settlement , which will increase Crown court sitting day . do the Minister believe that the measure will be sufficient to reduce the Crown court backlog to an acceptable level , or do she envisage that further action will be necessary , such as increase to criminal legal aid ? legal aid be a vital part of the justice system , and it underpin our plan to build a justice system that work fairly for all party . the previous Government leave the civil and criminal legal aid market in dire strait and face significant challenge . we intend to publish our response shortly to the " Crime Lower " consultation , which relate to the fee pay to duty solicitor in police station among other thing , and we will follow up on that with our response to the Law Society ' s successful judicial review of the previous Government ' s decision on criminal legal aid fee . the Minister have reference magistrate court . Cheltenham magistrate court , I regret to inform the House , have backlog , but also an inappropriate courthouse . it be fail victim , the accuse and justice of the peace , and it be not accessible for disabled people . the roof be leaky , and it be generally consider to be in a shocking state of affair . will the Minister make a statement on whether there will be investment in magistrate courthouse to ensure that justice can be carry out at the local level ? if the hon . Gentleman write to I with specific detail of the issue in his local magistrate court , I will raise those with his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service . we be successful in secure a £ 177 million increase in capital spending for the Ministry of Justice in last week ' s Budget . that will cover expenditure on prison and court . support victim of Rape and Sexual Violence what step her Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence through the criminal justice system . we be commit to support victim of those abhorrent crime and have dedicate £ 26 million to support service through the rape and sexual abuse support fund . we have also announce our plan to introduce free independent legal advocate for the victim and survivor of adult rape and be commit to work with the judiciary to fast - track rape case through the court . Avon and Somerset police , who be responsible for uphold the rule of law in my constituency , pioneer a new , innovative way of investigate rape and sexual violence call Project Bluestone . when roll out nationwide as Operation Soteria it lead to a 110 % increase in rape prosecution , accord to Home Office datum . while an increase in prosecution be very welcome , it also mean that more victim , include those in Weston - super - Mare , be relive their harrowing ordeal when go through a trial . will the Minister outline how her Department be work to provide support to the increase number of victim experience the incredibly difficult trial process ? I thank my hon . friend for that really important question ; he raise some serious point . the Ministry of Justice fund over 60 specialist support service for victim of rape and sexual offending as well as dedicated victim support through the witness service . court personnel provide support during and after hearing , and we have invest in trauma - inform training to improve the victim experience throughout court . rape and serious sexual offence victim can also request transcript of sentencing remark for free during a one - year pilot . I encourage all those who be eligible please to apply to the pilot . will the hon . Lady please confirm the number of criminal convict of rape , sexual abuse , domestic abuse and domestic violence who be now back on our street as a result of her Department ' s early release scheme ? as the hon . Lady will know , the Government take step to exclude the most serious domestic abuse offender from SDS40 , an exemption that be not make under the previous Government ' s end - of - custody supervise licence scheme . that be because we know that we need to protect woman and girl , and we have a landmark mission to protect woman and girl from violence . all the datum on release will be publish as usual — the Lord Chancellor have make that clear — but we know that we need to do more . we welcome the new shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . I belatedly congratulate the Government Front - Bench team on their appointment — I have be a little busy over the summer . the only group the Labour Government ' s popularity have increase during that time with be criminal . how many domestic abuser and sex offender release under their early release scheme have go on to reoffend ? would the Minister like to apologise to the victim ? well , I be go to congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his new role , but he seem to have a very short memory . it be he who should be apologise to the country as a whole on behalf of his Government for their woeful abuse of our justice system and our prison . under the previous Government ' s ecsl scheme , there be zero exemption to protect the public . this government put in serious exemption to prevent sex offender and serious violent criminal from be release on to our street . maybe he should have a bit of humility . there be exemption in the previous Government ' s scheme , but the key thing be that we need to get on and build more prison . Prison work , and we need to see more prison be build . the last Conservative Government build more prison place than any prior Labour Government in live memory , but we clearly need to go far . what funding have the Lord Chancellor secure to build prison over and above those secure by the previous Government ? do the Minister agree with the other junior Minister that few people should be send to prison ? again , the right hon . Gentleman forget who be in power for the last 14 year and who fail to build any prison place . just 500 extra prison place be build under his government ' s watch . the Government have allocate a record £ 1 . 2 billion for prison building in the Budget , and we will be go far . we be the party of law and order . he need to look at his record . legal aid whether she plan to widen the scope of case cover by legal aid . legal aid be a vital part of the justice system . it underpin our plan to build a justice system that work for victim , support access to justice and uphold the rule of law . we be look carefully at the evidence gather as part of the review of civil legal aid , which cover issue such as demand , fee level and the geographic provision of service . cut to legal aid and the narrowing of its scope by the Conservatives have mean that many people be no long able to resolve their problem through access to early legal advice . that have result in legal representation be available only to those who can afford it . will the Minister consider look into restore legal aid to the level it be before the legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 for all area of civil law , to ensure that justice be make available to all people who can afford it ? will she commit to review the bureaucracy of the legal aid Agency , which do not support the need and capacity of small firm ? my hon . friend have significant experience of work in the legal aid sector , and she be right to highlight the importance of good quality legal advice to resolve a whole range of social welfare problem . we be look at how to improve access to early legal advice and support , but she will appreciate the challenging financial outlook that we be grapple with . I will raise the administrative issue in relation to the Legal aid Agency with its chief executive . every week I have people come to my office who be victim and have no access to money . they deserve justice , and the only way they can get it be with legal aid . what discussion have the Minister have with the Policing and Justice Minister in Northern Ireland to ensure that legal aid available here can also be available in Northern Ireland ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . I have yet to have those conversation with my counterpart in Northern Ireland , but I hope to do so in the come month . support Prison Officers what step her Department be take to support prison officer . by immediately reduce prison overcrowding , we have make prison safe to work in . we have also accept the 5 % pay award recommend for prison officer in full . I have be make aware of the consequence of 14 year of neglect of our Prison and Probation Service by the conservative party : the critical overcrowding due to the lack of investment ; staff at all level feel exhausted , scared , demotivated , disenfranchised and undervalue ; officer face unacceptably high level of violence and drug abuse ; and bully between prisoner . what be the Department do to rectify the consequence of this litany of neglect by the so - call party of law and order , to give our prison officer the support they deserve ? my hon . friend tell it how it be . the conservative party leave our Prison and Probation Service in a mess . our job , on behalf of the british people , be to clean up that mess . that be what we be do . HMP Featherstone , HMP Oakwood and HMP Brinsford , also a young offender institution , in my constituency be brilliantly support by amazing staff , but one of the pressure on they be the number of foreign national offender in those prison . what step be the Minister take to ensure that those foreign national offender be return to where they come from ? we be already on track to remove more foreign national offender than the Conservative party ever do . single Justice Procedure what step her Department be take to improve the single justice procedure . I have listen carefully to concern raise about the single justice procedure . as a first step , I have ask the Courts and Tribunals Service to redesign the SJP notice and make it clear . I will also call in sjp prosecutor to discuss way in which we can ensure that they consider the public interest in advance of make prosecution . early this year , a decision by the chief magistrate overturn the use of sjp for rail fine , potentially nullify and require the refunding of as many as 74 , 000 fine . in the past few day it have be report that LNER have bring similar prosecution under SJP without supply any evidence at all . I make no assumption about the guilt or innocence of anyone involve in those prosecution , but justice must be open , clear and fair . it be unfair to expect people to engage with a process without it be clear what evidence have be lay against they . will the Minister confirm that her Department will keep those principle at the heart of all our justice practice , include SJPs ? I will raise the evidential question that my hon . friend raise with representative of the train operating company when they and other SJP prosecutor join I in discussion in the next few week . I be clear that the single justice procedure be vital for the efficient run of the magistrate court . however , it must operate fairly and effectively . I will not tolerate poor practice , and I will not hesitate to fundamentally reform the system if that be require . support Young Offenders what step her Department be take to support young offender . the young future programme will be a prevention - first approach to crime reduction , build on the Department ' s successful turnaround programme . I be very pleased to visit the first secure school which will put education at its heart , ensure child in custody turn their life around . over the past decade , the quality and quantity of education in young offender institution have decline , as report by Sir Martin Oliver , his Majesty ' s chief inspector of education , child ' s service and skill , and Charlie Taylor , his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison . these institution be face difficulty in manage challenge behaviour , lead to an increase in child be put into isolation . child in these institution deserve a high - quality education that help they to turn their life around . the current system be fail they badly . will the Minister outline what action the Government can take to ensure that young offender receive a high - quality education — order . we be in danger of not get anybody else in . these be become statement rather than question . I be sure the Minister have grasp it . thank you , Mr Speaker . we know there be more to be do , as my hon . friend outline . keep - apart list make it difficult for child to access education in young offender institution , so we need to find different and well way of reduce violence and deliver education in these setting . during the 12 year that I be a Member of the Scottish Parliament , one of the most instructive and rewarding part of my role be my occasional visit , with other msp , to HMP Porterfield in Inverness . do the Minister agree that encourage mp to do the same would do a very great deal not just for young offender , but offender of all age ? I commend the hon . member for his action . he be right that visit to local prison , or prison elsewhere , be a good thing to do . I have recently visit Humber , Wakefield , and New Hall prison , and will be visit Wetherby young offender institution tomorrow . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . be the Minister worried about the increase criminalisation of young people ? I notice that the Ministry of Justice publish statistic last week that say one in four people of work age in the UK have criminal conviction . should we not look at the current disclosure framework , so that people with criminal record for minor offence from year ago be not prevent from find work , move on and contribute to society ? my hon . friend , the Chair of the Justice Committee , identify a subject that might well be useful for his Committee to examine . a young person I know be involve in an incident at 16 . can the Minister assure I that , because delay to go through the youth justice system have mean that that young person have not have the case adjudicate , that young person will not be adjudge an adult if they pass their 18th birthday when a conclusion be reach ? the hon . member draw attention to an issue . if she would like to write to I about that particular incident , I will write back to she . Register of Judgments , Orders and Fines what step she be take to ensure that the register of judgment , order and fine in England and Wales be an effective tool for financially vulnerable claimant and debtor . the register play an important role in help lender assess credit worthiness and enhance financial transparency . these objective seek to support vulnerable debtor by encourage and enable responsible borrowing . a consultation on include claimant datum on the register close recently . response to it be very positive and I hope to announce a way forward imminently . I be pleased to hear the Minister be move forward with the next step follow the consultation . I would far like to congratulate the Minister on move swiftly on this matter , especially as the consultation have be stall since January . I hope that with care and attention , datum protection for claimant will soon be able to be include in the register . will the Minister also consider other update to the register , such as record partial settlement and shift the burden of proof on debt satisfaction ? that would really help my constituent in Swindon . my hon . friend raise some interesting point and , as he be , I be always very keen to help people in Swindon . our focus be on respond to the consultation on include claimant datum on the register , which would improve financial inclusion by help people to resolve judgment debt . once our response have be publish and any reform regard claimant datum be implement , we will consider any wide reform . Domestic Abuse and Violence against Women what step she be take to support survivor of domestic abuse and violence against woman through the criminal justice system . what step she be take to support survivor of domestic abuse and violence against woman through the criminal justice system . we be commit to support victim and survivor of these abhorrent crime , include through the £ 26 million rape and sexual abuse support fund and the funding of independent domestic and sexual violence advocate . furthermore , we will increase the power of the Victims ' commissioner to improve accountability when victim ' need be not meet . many of my constituent , include member of our local Soroptomist international group , will be take part in the United Nations ' 16 day of activism against gender - base violence , which include digital violence . what step be be take in the prison system to rehabilitate individual whose criminal behaviour be the result of be radicalise online , and will digital citizenship education play a part in their rehabilitation ? I thank the hon . Lady for that really important question , and I urge everyone in the House to get involve in the 16 day of activism — this year ' s theme be " it start with I " , which I think be a lesson that we should all take on board . the Prison Service assess the impact of online influence and the need for rehabilitation for convict terrorist in the first year after their sentencing , but digital citizenship education form just one part of that rehabilitation . once we get our prison population under suitable control — follow what happen under the previous Government — we will be able to do more of this important work . offender convict of violence against woman and girl be also eligible for accredited programme , although that will depend on their assess risk and need . the Scottish Government recently decide against include misogyny in their Hate Crime and Public Order ( Scotland ) Act 2021 , but we know how pernicious and widespread misogyny be , especially in the context of domestic abuse . just 6 % of all offence be report , and there be even low rate for rape and sexual assault conviction . be the Lord Chancellor plan to review aggravate offence , and misogyny in particular , to ensure that woman and girl get the protection that we deserve ? as the hon . Lady will know , this Government be elect with a landmark mission to halve violence against woman and girl over the course of a decade . every single Department , include the Department for Education , will look at how we tackle misogyny in our school , street , home and workplace , online , and indeed everywhere . the Opposition have just elect a leader who have make rape joke previously , but this be about leadership and take thing seriously , and that be exactly what this Government and I be do . I urge the hon . Lady to write to the Home Office about the specific point that she have make . as a survivor of domestic abuse — indeed , have endure the experience of my ex - husband stand against I in the recent general election — I have personal and direct experience of the systemic bias against we . do the Minister agree that we need a comprehensive approach that provide support and consideration at every stage of the criminal justice system ; do she agree that that require funding , not least for specialist support service ; and do she agree that we need to address the legal aid crisis as well ? I thank my hon . friend for her bravery and for speak out about her experience as a victim - survivor , which have undoubtedly help countless other . she be right that this will take every single Department across Government look into how we stamp out violence against woman and girl in our community and society . she be also right about funding . we be currently look through the funding we receive at the Budget , and in due course I will be able to outline how we will support service . if she would like I to meet she to discuss this far , I shall be happy to do so . under the last government , only 2 % of report rape case make it to trial , because woman do not feel safe about report rape or do not think they would be take seriously . how be the Government ensure that more brave woman who report their rape be see quickly and effectively in the court service and get the justice that they deserve ? my hon . friend have outline the stark reality of what rape victim and survivor face in our criminal justice system . not only be far too few case get to court , but 60 % of rape victim be pull out of the system , which be why we be committed to introduce independent legal advocate for adult rape victim . we will be work with the judiciary to fast - track rasso case through our court , and support victim - survivor through every step of the criminal justice journey . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the new shadow Justice Secretary to his place . as he have campaign to withdraw from the european convention on human right , I be sure we can rely on he to champion international law for all of we across the world . I want to ask about domestic abuse . for too long , domestic abuser have be able to exploit a loophole in our legal system , whereby the domestic abuse that they perpetrate be mask by the ambiguous conviction of common assault . this have mean that , under this Government and the previous one , domestic abuser have qualify for early release scheme . when I push the Secretary of State on this issue the other day , she admit that her measure to exclude domestic abuser from early release be " not of course fully comprehensive . " — [ Official Report , 22 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 206 . ] the Liberal Democrats believe that thing need to go far . will the Minister meet I and domestic abuse charity to discuss some of our proposal for close the loophole so that victim and survivor get the justice they deserve ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for his question . he will know that certain offence be exclude from the SDS40 early release scheme , not the offender . this government put in strict protection to protect the public , unlike the previous Government , who introduce an end - of - custody supervise licence scheme . those who be release from sentence for common assault be flag for domestic abuse marker , and they be give priority for electronic monitoring and risk assessment . I meet the sector regularly to look at what else we can do . we be learn lesson from SDS40 , but this Government be commit to halve violence against woman and girl . Code of Practice for Victims of Crime what step her Department be take to improve the enforcement of the code of practice for victim of crime in England and Wales . we will implement the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , which lay a good foundation for ensure that victim know the right they should receive under the code and that agency be hold accountable for deliver they . we will consult on the revise victim code early next year , and we will go far by increase the Victims ' Commissioner ' s power so that there be more accountability for deliver the code . my constituent Dr Marie Gerval be a victim of stalk by a man with whom she have have a brief relationship . he even put a tracker on her car without her knowledge . there be needless delay in her case , and she feel that she be not take seriously . so bad be the stress that her hair fall out . later , it transpire that the investigate officer on her case be himself convict of stalk a woman . will the Minister meet I and Dr Gerval to discuss how the code of practice for victim can make sure that this do not happen to other woman like she ? what Dr Marie Gerval experience be totally abhorrent , but sadly she be not alone in experience these crime . the Government be commit to treat stalk with the seriousness it deserve by enhance stalk protection order , implement automatic suspension for officer under investigation for domestic abuse and sexual offence , and introduce mandatory professional standard for individual officer . the Home Office be also look at the police response to stalk as a part of our work to well protect victim of violence against woman and girl . I encourage my hon . friend to reach out to the Home Office Minister responsible for safeguarding , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , but I will happily meet she . support for Victims of Commercial Sexual Exploitation what step her Department be take to support victim of commercial sexual exploitation through the criminal justice system . the Ministry of Justice provide funding for vital victim support service to help victim recover from the impact of crime . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service have develop guidance to support and identify victim of modern slavery and human trafficking , include those who have be sexually exploit . scottish organisation such as TARA and Routes out provide exemplary support to woman who be exploit through prostitution and sex trafficking . however , these organisation be face with an endless stream of woman , in part because the law in Scotland , England and Wales provide impunity to pimp website . do the Minister agree that the UK Government should lead the way by outlaw pimp website and offer support , not sanction , to victim of commercial sexual exploitation ? this government be lead the way with our mission to halve violence against woman and girl — all woman and girl . the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 will require local commissioner to develop joint need assessment for victim of sexual abuse in order to identify and address the current gap , and to support these woman . on outlaw pimp website specifically , I would encourage my hon . friend to speak to the Minister for Safeguarding , but as I have previously mention , this Government be work holistically across all Government Departments , include the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Home Office , to tackle violence against woman and girl . reduce reoffende what step her Department be take to help reduce reoffende . what step her Department be take to help reduce reoffende . good reduce reoffende activity can not happen in overcrowded prison , which be why we take immediate action to relieve the pressure . this will allow for well access to purposeful activity , which we all know reduce reoffende . it be a former Prisons Minister who identify that short custodial sentence have a high reoffending rate than sentence serve outside prison . do the Minister agree that we need to look at use technology to curtail offender ’ freedom outside prison and ensure that we cut the cycle of crime ? yes . electronic monitoring be already an important part of safely manage offender in the community , and one of the principle of the sentencing review be to look at the punishment that offender receive outside prison , consider how we can well use electronic monitoring and other technology to safely manage offender outside the prison wall . as a former member of a youth justice board , I know that young people who be draw into offend often lead narrow life with little opportunity for personal development . have the Minister make an assessment of the provision of youth service , such as the Duke of Edinburgh ' s award scheme , to engage with these young people and prevent reoffende ? we value youth service , such as the Duke of Edinburgh ' s award scheme , that enable young people to develop new skill to turn their life around . in fact , the d of e scheme be available in all five of our young offender institution , and 36 people in yoi be enrol in the scheme in August . last week I meet former prisoner who have take part in Greene King ' s release potential scheme , which be now be expand with two further training kitchen go into prison to help people turn their life around . what be the Government do to boost such programme , and the employment advisory board that we set up , to ensure that while prisoner be rightly punish they be also rehabilitate ? such scheme and initiative be exactly the sort of thing that this Government want to celebrate as good practice and replicate in other setting . answer to my recent write parliamentary question have talk of the positive impact that relation with family can have on prisoner resettlement . however , in a number of case , particularly those involve sexual violence , the prisoner have no contact with the family and their release be usually a traumatic moment for those family and child . that be why I welcome Labour ' s manifesto pledge to introduce a national identification system for the child of prisoner as a vitally important measure . what be the Government do to meet that pledge and break the offend cycle across generation ? identify child with a parent in prison be important for ensure that they receive the support they need . strengthen family tie remain an integral aspect of our work , which be why our family support worker help to re - establish appropriate family tie and facilitate visit from prisoner ' child . my official be work closely with the Department for Education to determine how much more we can do in this space . incarcerate Pregnant Women and Mothers what step her Department be take to support incarcerate pregnant woman and mother . we be send too many woman to prison , two third of whom be non - violent and over half of whom have dependent child , and 75 % of the time the child leave home after the mother be incarcerate . that be why we have launch the woman ' s justice board , which will set out its strategy in the spring . its goal be to reduce the number of woman in prison and , ultimately , the number of woman ' s prison . all Welsh woman in prison be hold in England , and be far from home add to the emotional torture of separation from child , but we can not assess the extent of the separation without public access to Wales - specific disaggregate datum . will the Secretary of State commit to make this information public so that we can ensure that pregnant woman and mother and child have the proper support they need ? the datum on how we track the experience of woman across England and Wales will be work that the woman ' s justice board — once it be up and run — will be able to look into and make recommendation on , which we will pick up in the spring . early Release Scheme what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the early release scheme . the immediate purpose of the emergency release scheme be to stop we run out of prison place and to avert a total breakdown of law and order . if we look at the prison population today , it be clear that we have manage to avert the immediate crisis , but this be only a short - term measure ; we have also set out a long - term plan to build the prison place that the last Conservative Government fail to build . I have also launch a landmark sentencing review so that we be never force to look into emergency release again . in my Mid Dunbartonshire constituency , the community justice team be have success in prevent reoffende by work with offender in a trauma - inform way . it be recognise that short sentence , as have already be mention , do not prevent reoffende . do the Minister agree that the prevention of reoffende be central to reduce cost , job loss , family breakdown and homelessness ? it be clear that we have to do well on reduce reoffende , give that 80 % of offender be reoffender . cut reoffende be a strategy for cut crime , keep the public safe and help ex - prisoner to turn their life around . I be sure that the sentencing review will look carefully at short sentence . I call the shadow Minister . want to see justice deliver more consistently for victim be the key reason I seek election to this place , so it be an enormous privilege to take up this role today . in response to concern raise last month about offender who have be release early not be promptly tag , the Secretary of State assure the House that she will monitor performance daily . can the Government now provide concrete assurance to the House and the public that all offender be be tag as they should on release ? I welcome the shadow Minister to his place . I have always enjoy his contribution to justice debate , so I look forward to work with he where appropriate . after the Department ' s daily monitoring — indeed , monitor many time a day — I can confirm that the performance of Serco on tagging have improve significantly . as of 28 October , 98 % of all tranche 2 SDS40 release visit to install tag have be complete , with a small number of prearranged alternative fitting also schedule . they be now all cover . of course , tagging will protect the public only if curfew breach be address swiftly . can the Secretary of State tell we whether there have be any breach of tag - monitor curfew ? on average , how quickly be those who commit a breach bring back into custody ? the hon . Gentleman ' s question be really about rate of recall , which be what happen when licence condition be breach , include breach of curfew . recall rate for SDS40 release be track similarly to recall rate for other offender . we will publish those statistic once they have be assure in the usual way , which I believe will be immediately after Christmas . early Release Scheme : housing demand what assessment she have make of the potential impact of recent change to the early release scheme on the demand for housing provide by local authority . with this Government ' s scheme , unlike the previous Government ' s rush scheme , we be give our excellent staff time to work with national and local housing partner to minimise any impact on local authority . give that secure housing on release have a prove positive impact on the recidivism rate of ex - offender , which be something we all welcome , how many prisoner release early by this Government be be house in hotel ? few than 20 . education and Training for Prisoners what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of education and training provide to prisoner . we have reduce overcrowding to ensure that prison have the capacity to focus on education and training . for example , HMP Highpoint ' s state - of - the - art rail centre of excellence give prisoner industry - standard training and guarantee employment on release . a couple of week ago , I visit the Bronzefield category a woman ' s prison in my Spelthorne constituency . I see that prisoner do work be reward with small amount of money , but the weighting of their pay preferred people who take part in numeracy and literacy over skill , such as work in the bicycle repair shop or the hair salon . be that a national approach , or be it something the governor have do pragmatically to fit his personal circumstance ? it sound like an interesting approach . I would be grateful if the hon . Gentleman write to I so that I can look into it and write back to he . it be certainly the sort of thing we need to be look at . I join the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) in call for the Government to consider the child of prisoner . I meet the child ' s Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , just last week , and I know it be very much on her radar . however , this be an urgent issue . this week , I have be tell about a child who have be live alone for month because the authority simply do not know that their parent be in prison — order . that be not relevant to the question . Minister , would you like to respond ? no . in which case , we will leave it there . foreign National Offenders what step she be take through the criminal justice system to facilitate the removal of foreign national offender from the UK . how many foreign national offender be remove from the UK through a prison transfer agreement in each year since 2010 . I share the public ' s view that there be far too many foreign national offender in our prison . since come into office , we have return more than 1 , 500 foreign offender and , I be pleased to say , we be on track to remove more foreign offender this year than at any time in recent year . some 12 % of the prison population in England and Wales be foreign national offender , so what specific action be the Justice Secretary take to remove fno from our prison and return they to their country , include through the use of the prisoner transfer agreement that be put in place by the previous Government ? as I say , we be on track to remove more foreign offender this year than in previous year . in fact , over the period when the shadow Justice Secretary be the Immigration Minister in the previous Government , the number return be around 1 , 300 . we have already return more than 1 , 500 foreign offender , utilise all the prisoner transfer agreement at our disposal . we be actively try to negotiate more such agreement , so that we can continue to speed up removal from this country . the previous Government negotiate a scheme by which we can deport albanian prisoner back to Albania . it be an excellent scheme ; Albania be a completely safe country , of course . give that those cross the channel be commit an illegal offence , be there anything legally to stop we arrest they and put they on a flight straight to Albania ? we do not even need to lock they up in Albania ; they can just start their journey all over again — what a good deterrent . as the right hon . Gentleman well know , we have legal obligation to those who arrive in this country that have to play out . however , pta relate to those who have commit an offence , have be convict and be be hold in the prison estate . they can therefore be remove from this country under a prisoner transfer agreement . we be work with the Albanians to ensure that the PTA with Albania be as effective as possible . will my right hon . friend consider a stand - alone deportation order as part of the sentencing review , so that rather than taxpayer have to pay to imprison foreign offender for year on end , those offender be deport back to their country of origin ? personally , I be of the view that deportation for somebody who have be convict and be due to be imprison in our country be as good a punishment as serve time in a prison in this country . we be look actively at what more we can do to make the early removal scheme as effective as possible , include potential option to bring forward the point of early removal from this country . I will be work with colleague in the Home Office as we develop our plan in this area . Topical Questions one of my constituent — order . this be the first topical question . if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I think member from all party need a reminder about the form in this House for oral question , Mr Speaker . since the last Justice question , I have launch an independent review of sentencing . it will ensure that there be always space for dangerous offender in our prison and that we expand the use of punishment outside prison , so that no Government be ever force to release prisoner early again . the Government have also introduce their first Budget and we have see an additional £ 850 million of funding for the Ministry of Justice . I note the arrival of the new shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . while rumour have it that this job be not his first choice and he may have be ask to do it on more than one occasion by his new boss , I warmly welcome he to his new position . one of my constituent have be attend court to resolve a matter around divorce and periodical payment since 2015 . although she have achieve positive result at all the court hearing , with many court order , sadly there have always be error and incompetence in the system . will the Minister meet I to discuss these matter so that I can get a final resolution , after almost a decade , for my constituent ? I be shocked to hear about the extent of the delay in the case of the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . he be welcome to write to I with the specific detail and I will ensure he get a meeting with the relevant Minister . early this year , it be report that over 1 , 000 case at Ipswich Crown court be outstanding . at the last count , each case be take an average of 249 day to be deal with , with 144 case unresolved for two year or more . what can the Minister do to reassure my constituent , as we look to clear the terrible backlog leave by the previous Government ? the Government have make it clear that we be fully commit to bear down on the Crown court caseload . to relieve pressure on Ipswich Crown court in particular , the south - east region have begin send appropriate case to Cambridge Crown court for hear . nationally , we have increase the number of Crown court sit day to 106 , 500 , which be 500 more than agree by the previous Lord Chancellor . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Police firearm officer Sergeant Blake be a hero and we all want to see individual like he , who put themselves in the line of fire , respect . what work be the Lord Chancellor do , alongside the Home Secretary , to review the threshold for prosecution for individual such as Sergeant Blake , so that they never find themselves in the invidious position that he do ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his question . he will be aware that charge decision be a matter for the independent Crown Prosecution Service . what the Home Secretary have announce , and what I have be work with she on , be the introduction of a presumption of anonymity for all firearm officer if they find themselves be charge by the CPS . we believe that such a measure could have make a difference in this case . the Home Secretary have also announce measure that result from the police accountability review work undertake by the previous Government , and we be take those forward . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her answer . Jonathan Hall KC , the reviewer of terrorist law , have say that the authority should put as much information as they can in the public domain to maintain public trust in terrorist case , which have the high public interest . in the void , misinformation take hold and that diminish public trust . while of course respect the judicial process and not comment on the individual fact of the case , can the Secretary of State explain the report two - week delay between the CPS make a charge decision with respect to the alleged Southport attacker and it be announce to the general public ? as the right hon . Member be now the shadow Lord Chancellor , may I remind he that we do not comment on case that be sub judice ? that include commentary that everyone be aware relate to case currently go through our legal process . what I will say be that those be independent decision for the Crown Prosecution Service , which ultimately decide what charge to bring . in live police investigation into complex case , it be appropriate that those investigation , the charge decision and , ultimately , the case be do by the independent part of the process and that there be no interference from Government . may I also say that we will be return to this matter straight after the case , as member right around the House , include I , have great concern ? I assure the House that we will come back to this subject , but , in the meantime , the trial must go ahead . in Stoke - on - Trent , survivor of rape and sexual assault be support by the local charity , Savana , which be dependent on rape and sexual abuse funding and funding that it receive from the police and crime commissioner to provide its counselling and independent sexual violence advocate service . will the Minister help it with its budget setting by confirm today when it will receive its settlement figure , and give an indication as to whether those figure will be similar to last year ' s allocation ? may I also invite she to come to Stoke - on - Trent to see the amazing work that it do ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the brilliant work of Savana . the charity do tremendous work in support victim and survivor of these abhorrent crime . this financial year , the Government be provide £ 41 million of ringfenced funding for isva and independent domestic violence adviser . now that the departmental budget for 2025 - 26 have be announce , the internal departmental allocation process be take place . I have write to police and crime commissioner to assure they that they will be tell of the settlement by the beginning of December , and I would love to visit Savana in Stoke - on - Trent . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . an estimate 80 , 000 disabled young people be unable to benefit from their child trust fund saving , because their family be be thwart by a complex legal process before they can access they . the previous Government let these family down by tolerate that , so this Government need to act . will the Minister commit to simplify this agonising process to ensure that these disabled young people get the cash that they deserve ? this Government recognise the difficulty that parent and guardian of young people who lack mental capacity can face in access their child trust fund . I recently meet the hon . member ' s colleague , the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) , and his constituent about this issue . the Government will consider what can be do in a way that safeguard those who lack capacity . several constituent have contact I about the sentence be hand down to climate protester , with some see these sentence as too long give the pressure on our prison system . will my hon . friend confirm whether there be any plan to look afresh at sentencing for these type of offence in the context of crowd prison ? the right to protest be an important part of our democracy , but it have to be exercise within the law . sentencing in individual case be , of course , a matter for independent court . in the past week alone , there have be four report sexual assault or attempt sexual assault against woman in Londonderry . I know that justice be a devolved matter , but on average 140 woman have be kill every year during the past 15 year . it be an issue that we can not ignore . will the Minister consider ask her counterpart in the devolved region to bring a determined focus and unity of purpose to tackle violence against woman and girl , to ensure that they all feel safe , no matter where they live in the country ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that very important question . he be right : all part of this country — all our nation — be experience an epidemic of violence against woman and girl . we have already speak about the 16 day of action , which will highlight what we can all do to stand against this abhorrent crime . I be work with my counterpart across all the devolve nation on how we tackle violence against woman and girl . I will bring forward more information in due course . as have be say today , justice delay be justice deny . I be sure that the Minister will agree that victim of domestic violence be be force to wait year for their case to be hear in court . a constituent of mine have tell I that the delay in her case have leave she feeling trap , scared and let down by the criminal justice system , while , she feel , her abuser be free to move on with his life . what step can my hon . friend take to expedite domestic violence case , so that victim be not leave wait for year ? the Government inherit a record and rise court backlog , which have see far too many victim and survivor wait too long for justice . decision on case list be a matter for the independent judiciary , who , when possible , look to prioritise case involve vulnerable victim and witness . we be committed to bear down on the caseload to speed up the delivery of justice for all victim . over the year , I have meet a number of constituent who have endure the pain of a love one be kill or seriously injure in a road traffic collision . last week , I meet representative of RoadPeace West Midlands again . ahead of the world day of remembrance for road traffic victim on Sunday 17 November , will the Justice Secretary commit to personally look at the " remain and report " campaign and to bring forward the promise consultation ? I have be lobby by the same group in the west midland . I will certainly look at the representation that have be make . Thomas White be sentence to three year for theft of a mobile phone in 2012 . he remain in a category a prison 12 year later , have receive an imprisonment for public protection sentence . two medical report this year have confirm his deteriorate mental health . he recently attempt to set himself on fire and have since stop take his medication . will the Secretary of State meet I and his sister , Clara White , to discuss his case ? I be very sorry to hear about the circumstance face my hon . friend ' s constituent ' s sible in prison . we be determined to make more progress with IPP prisoner , but never in a way that compromise public protection . if my hon . friend write to the Department with the specific of the case , I will ensure that he receive a response . a lady from Northampton be recently give a 31 - month sentence for a tweet , whereas an individual who incite physical violence on the street of Birmingham as part of a pro - palestinian protest receive a far less sentence . do the Secretary of State agree that such inconsistency create the perception , at least , that we have a two - tier justice system ? it be incumbent on member to ensure that such a perception do not take hold and not to inappropriately compare sentence hand out in different type of case . as the hon . Gentleman well know and every member of this House should know , sentence in individual case be a matter for the independent judge who hear those case ; the trial unfold in front of they . I welcome the commitment in the Budget to our court after 14 year of neglect . Truro Crown court be face a temporary cut to Crown court sitting day until the end of the year . I have previously ask about delay rape and sexual offence case at Truro Crown court . can measure be consider to assist ? as my hon . friend will know , we be do everything we can to bear down on the Crown court caseload , include extend magistrate ' sentence power . the Budget also confirm 106 , 500 sit day for this year . early this year , I speak with the now Minister for safeguarding and violence against woman and girl , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , about my campaign to make court transcript free . she be supportive , but be not sure that Labour could commit to spend the £ 2 . 2 million that it would cost . the Justice Committee have urge the court to consider whether artificial intelligence - power transcription could reduce the cost of produce court transcript . will the Minister commit to carry out the Committee ' s recommendation before the end of this parliamentary session ? I understand why the hon . Lady raise that issue , but transcript must be 100 % accurate . they be legal document , so " good enough " simply do not cut it . I will review what technology be available , and I be happy to keep she update . a report from May 2022 show that only nine of the 32 prison education institution inspect be judge " good " or " outstanding " by Ofsted ; additionally , less than 40 % of prisoner take course up to GCSE level . do my hon . friend agree that if we be to tackle rehabilitation , we must improve prison education across the estate ? my hon . friend be right : the quality of prison education must continually improve if we be to achieve the well possible rehabilitation outcome . will the Secretary of State make available — perhaps through a note in the Library — the number and type of foreign national offender who , aid by delude interest group and dodgy lawyer , be resist deportation by mean of appeal , either to domestic court or to european — foreign — judge ? I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that all the datum that be publish under the previous Government will continue to be publish by our . as my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) point out , legal aid be currently restrict to those on the low income . I have receive correspondence from a constituent who , despite be a domestic abuse survivor , can not access legal aid because her income be above the threshold . will the Minister consider widen legal aid eligibility to all victim of domestic violence ? some case be eligible for legal aid under exceptional case funding . if my hon . friend write to I with the detail of the case , I will come back to he with any advice that I can offer . as Ministers be doubtless aware , domestic abuse include financial abuse and coercive control . I have a constituent whose ex - partner be use the family court to perpetrate his controlling and abusive behaviour against she . what can be do to prevent the legal system from be use as a vehicle for extend domestic abuse by former partner ? the hon . Lady be right : sadly , family court be far too often use to re - traumatise victim of domestic abuse . the Government be alive to that fact , and we be roll out our pathfinder pilot to focus on a more child - centre approach . I be meet survive Economic Abuse this afternoon — we have a great relationship with that organisation — to see how good we can do more and support victim . I wonder if Ministers be as astounded as I be that Conservative Members be still attack we , as the shadow Justice Secretary do at the start of this question time , for clear up their mess in the criminal justice system . will the Government commit to increase capacity in our prison system , so that we can deal with the crisis that the Conservatives run away from ? the shadow Secretary of State have not necessarily be in position long enough to have acquaint himself with all aspect of his Government ' s performance in this area . we will spend more this year on build the prison place that the last Government fail to deliver , and we have launch our landmark sentencing review to ensure that we never again have to make emergency release . HMP Garth have be liken to an airport because of the number of drone that illegally fly drug into that prison . what urgent action be the Lord Chancellor take to end that unacceptable situation ? drug get into prison be a huge issue , and I be very aware of the issue at Garth . the Minister with responsibility for prison will meet the governor and think about how to deal with those problem in the medium and long term . there be welcome news for the Ministry of Justice in the Budget last week , but I do not hear any mention of legal aid funding . when will the criminal legal aid advisory board recommendation and the civil legal aid review be publish , and when can we expect to see some reversal of the catastrophic cut make to legal aid and advice since 2010 ? we will publish our response to the " Crime Lower " consultation in a matter of week . I anticipate be able to publish the CLAAB report at that stage , and some of the document relate to the review of civil legal aid before the end of this year . Flight Cancellations ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Transport if she will make a statement on the ongoing connectivity issue cause by belatedly announce cancellation of flight , such as those between Belfast and London . I thank the hon . gentleman for an opportunity to talk about these important issue . it be unusual that we be do so in an urgent question , not in an Adjournment debate , which be the debate in which he normally intervene . I have go soft . I know that the issue of connectivity across the UK be of great interest to the hon . Gentleman and many of his constituent , as connectivity strengthen the bond between our community . cancellation affect passenger and business , who rely on punctual service and connection , and have an impact on confidence . it be the responsibility of airline and airport to work together to minimise delay and cancellation . connectivity across our country be vital ; the Government jointly fund three public service obligation route to London , include from Derry / Londonderry . however , the UK aviation market operate predominantly in the private sector , and it be for airport to invest in their infrastructure and for airline to determine the route that they operate . I recognise the importance of Belfast City and Belfast International airport for local community and business . the Department for Transport be actively engage with regional airport , include those in Northern Ireland , to understand how the Government can support and unlock opportunity for growth . I thank the Minister for that answer . Northern Ireland be an integral part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . we would not have a United Kingdom without she , and member in this Chamber would be a lot poor for the lack of Northern Ireland . we be thankful to be a part of these british isle , and have fight hard to remain so . however , be a part constitutionally and be a part practically be very different thing , and the fact be that people need to take a plane or a boat to come across to the mainland . three million passenger travel on schedule domestic flight in the UK between July and September 2021 , and the third and fourth most popular route be between Belfast and London . we have a huge share of domestic route , and the reason be clear : people in these part of the United Kingdom have such strong link , and such a strong need to go between they . yesterday , a cancellation text be send to passenger book on a flight from Belfast City airport to London City airport . the passenger on that flight be not simply frustrated businessman and woman ; they include a disabled person who have arrange special assistance , a person on their way to a health appointment in London , and a family get a connect flight to their holiday destination . we understand that bad weather can affect flight pattern , and sometimes these thing be unavoidable , but my understanding be that yesterday ' s flight be cancel back in September . it be the flight that never be . they take our money , take our boarding pass and let we through security , but the plane be not there . it be quite unbelievable . the person go to the London hospital be book on a flight seven hour later , completely miss their appointment . for the business people , their day be go . the holidaymaker ' connection have fly . those attend Great Ormond Street child ' s hospital or other hospital miss appointment , as do businessman and businesswoman — the whole thing be unbelievable . there be no announcement in Belfast City airport , although we be all wait for the flight that never be — 100 people from across Northern Ireland . I could understand if this be an anomaly , but it be fast become a norm — one that will affect business investment and tourism in Northern Ireland . procedure need to be urgently review . there be to be additional air passenger duty ; I hope that some of the additional money raise from people travel within the UK can be use to ensure that airline live up to their responsibility and maintain connectivity as a priority . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker , and I thank the Minister as well . the limit be normally two minute . I know you be make up for that flight yesterday , and of course the House miss you — that be why you get the UQ . business and tourism be vital for growth , as the hon . Gentleman say . we do have some connectivity problem and cancellation due to Storm Ashley recently , and I be sorry to hear about his constituent miss appointment , particularly his disabled constituent . the Secretary of State will lead work in this space , because accessibility on flight be vital . Belfast be still serve by 22 to 35 flight a day , and I suggest that the hon . Gentleman take the issue up with airline and the airport . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . last month , 18 flight between Belfast City and Heathrow be cancel , and I can only imagine how difficult that must be for member from Northern Ireland and their constituent . the previous Transport Committee , in its aviation reform inquiry , recommend that the Government revise the public service obligation route and the subsidy to improve domestic air connectivity . do the Minister agree that that be important to connect Northern Ireland with the rest of the UK , and will he bring forward work on that ? I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for the excellent work that she do in this field . cancellation be bad for business , tourism and passenger . the public service obligation arrangement come up for renewal regularly , and I think that flight price , connectivity and cancellation should be look at in the round when we come to renew they . flight cancellation be a significant issue that we take seriously in government , and work across the sector to tackle . I be proud that in government we publish the aviation passenger charter , which include clear advice on how passenger can resolve issue to do with cancel and delay flight , as well as miss baggage and the right of disabled passenger . in 2023 , we halve air passenger duty for domestic flight . we also make a commitment to strengthen the power of the Civil Aviation Authority . do the Minister intend to take that forward ? when in government , we also publish " flight path to the future " , which include a substantial framework for increase the efficiency of the aviation system and support passenger as we move far towards the goal of sustainable aviation . what further step will the Minister take to ensure that the measure that we set out to improve the aviation sector and the passenger experience be take forward ? frankly , this Government have fail the public so far . last week ' s Budget be , in large part , an attack on worker , business , farmer and the aviation sector . the Government ' s decision to increase air passenger duty have lead to a worried response from the passenger aviation sector , and Ryanair have already announce its intention of cut flight to and from UK airport by 10 % . the Government have so far show themselves to be deeply uninterested in the consequence of their action for worker , farmer and now air passenger . More in hope than expectation , I ask the Minister : what step will the Government take to improve the relationship with the passenger aviation sector and ensure that passenger be well serve ? I say with all candour to the hon . Gentleman that I remember that during covid — I shadow this brief at the time — there be no specific package for airline , airport or airport handler . that mean that we come out of covid in a much bad position than we would have if the Government have implement their own Treasury ' s proposal . we will take no lecture about our support for aviation . on his question about right for passenger , we will look at strengthen those go forward . APD go up by less than inflation — it have not be increase in a number of year — but I refer he to the Treasury for more detailed answer on tax matter . I think we have finally figure out why the shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have not yet be able to make it to Northern Ireland . I thank the Government and the Northern Ireland Executive for their recent commitment to the City of Derry airport . the public service obligation on the Heathrow route be very important for connectivity to the north - west of Ireland . when the Minister review the PSO for the next tranche of funding we hope to get , will he do some work with the airline to bring fare down ? they be out of reach for many people in the area . I thank the hon . gentleman for all he do in this space . I join he in encourage the shadow Secretary of State to go to Northern Ireland , which be a fine country . the hon . Gentleman know that I visit regularly , come through Belfast and Derry / Londonderry . it be a great place to live , visit , work and do business . on the specific point about price , I think there be 19 flight or more a week in summer from Derry / Londonderry , which be well connected . I suggest that the hon . member get involve with the airline and the airport owner but , yes , we can look at that when we come up to review the public sector obligation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I can sympathise with the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and I thank he for table the urgent question , because we consistently have the same problem at Edinburgh and other scottish airport , with a lack of connectivity and the disruption that that cause . I understand that the weather be a key reason for the delay this weekend , but another be delay at air traffic control , which be under pressure because of staff shortage and rise traffic . Eurocontrol , the main organisation support european airspace , have warn that to keep passenger safe and stop disruption well co - ordination be require between aircraft operator , airport and other across the continent . will the Minister tell I what conversation the Secretary of State have have with european partner on build resilience in air traffic control ? do the Government have confidence in the robustness of air traffic control in the UK to serve our connectivity properly ? official engage regularly with their counterpart across Europe and the European Union . the Government have commit to airspace modernisation , which will improve resilience . I look forward to support from Liberal Democrat Members in the near future as we progress towards modernise airspace right across our great nation and nation . I thank the Minister for his response and for reiterate the importance of get regional air connection right , as that can help to underpin economic growth . I hope he agree that we should not allow ourselves to be distract . do he agree that large part of our country could be well serve by well regional rail connection , which would hopefully reduce some of the congestion at our airport ? public transport penetration within an hour of an airport be vital and be a key performance indicator for how airport can grow and serve people well . well rail , well bus , well road link and well active travel to our airport be critical for this industry . Aberdeen airport be another that struggle with cancel flight . over 4 % of flight be cancel last year , which make it one of the airport with the high cancellation rate in the country . do the Minister agree that we must make sure that all our region in the UK , include Scotland , have a reliable connection , especially to London , for thing such as business travel ? link our rural community to urban centre be really important , so what can his government do to make sure that those thing improve ? I thank the hon . member for stand up for her local airport in Aberdeen . as someone who recently catch a connect flight in Manchester from Newquay , go on to Aberdeen , I can say that Loganair provide an excellent service . it be a great honour to visit Aberdeen airport recently to see its helicopter base for North sea oil and its importance to the transition that we will begin with our clean energy mission . I suggest that the hon . member take that up with Andy , the chief executive there , and perhaps the new director of corporate affair , Gavin Newlands , the former MP for Paisley . there be no public flight from north Wales to London , so we depend on train . traveller on Avanti West Coast ' s north Wales service endure chronic overcrowding , reduce direct service to London since covid , roll stock breakdown and on - the - day cancellation three to four time high than the rest of the Avanti network . that franchise run to 2026 . what be the Government do to make sure that Avanti offer the people of north Wales and their economy a decent — order . come on , that be not even link to flight . it be about train . [ interruption . ] no , let we not kid each other — there be no point waste time . let ' s have someone else who will ask the right question . I call Wendy Morton . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) highlight , reliable regional connectivity matter . when the Minister be look at public service obligation route , will he consider also look at the transparency of the datum come out of those route , at reliability , and at penalty for failure ? it can not be right that somebody get the additional stress of a cancel flight when they be try to get to a hospital appointment . People should not be miss hospital appointment because of cancel plane in the aviation sector . yes , I agree with the right hon . member : it be a consider question , and when contract come up for renewal we must consider they in the round to see how good they can serve the need of the travel public . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker , which as have be outline be important to many of our constituent . when we sit in the airport lounge and talk to people who have have flight delay , we see their frustration . I suspect , however , that you wish you have cancel this urgent question — my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) delay land it and take so long that I see you get increasingly uneasy as you be listen to he . increasingly we be find flight delay by one company in particular — British Airways — which have a monopoly on these flight . there be an economic lesson to be learn , which be that monopoly be abuse . one have only to look at the price charge on some occasion , when someone could fly to Australia cheap than they can fly to London with British Airways . sometimes BA give technical reason or weather reason for delay a flight , but often it be because plane be not full and it amalgamate flight . will the Minister commit to investigate with BA why the Belfast route be — order . I think you be Jim Shannon in disguise . come on , Minister . we be struggle to get the question land ; we have be taxi for a bit , and now we be ready for take - off . I do not want to pick on particular airline , but I be discuss regional connectivity in the UK with airline ceo , which I think be vital — that be the point the right hon . member make . I point out gently that Belfast International be a great airport to fly through , and it be well serve , not just by a single operator . it have multiple operator serve multiple airport , particularly in the south - east . in his early answer the Minister speak about growth and connectivity be important . how do the £ 2 increase — the holiday tax being add to airport duty — make a difference , especially when Ryanair have announce that it be go to cut 5 million seat ? that will have a dramatic impact on anyone want to travel within the UK and across Europe . what impact assessment will the Government carry out to ensure connectivity ? I remind the hon . member that as a tax , air passenger duty be a matter for his Majesty ' s Treasury . in the Budget we announce APD rate from 2026 to 2027 , to account for the previous extraordinarily high inflation under the conservative party , and to ensure that the aviation industry continue to contribute a fair share to the public finance . give the dissatisfaction we be hear about connectivity in Northern Ireland , which be a critical part of the UK , it seem to I that in the next review of the public service obligation , the Minister must commit to include Belfast City airport and a review of the operator . will he do so ? that be a good question , but I would do that automatically , and I extend that to the other part of our great nation where the public service obligation apply . let we not forget City of Derry airport , which be vital for the economy of the north - west in that fantastic part of our nation . everyone understand that there be cancellation due to weather and other issue beyond the control of airline , but will the Minister meet the like of BA to ensure that it understand the need for reliability , and for information to be give to customer as quickly and promptly as possible , so that they can take step to make alternative arrangement if possible ? I thank the hon . member for his question . I recently meet the chief executive of British Airways and raise regional connectivity . do the Minister agree that good transport link between the rest of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland be vital for business and tourism , and that delay and cancellation look extremely bad in the eye of the public ? will he commit to contact BA to try to resolve these issue ? I refer the hon . member to my previous answer : I have already raise regional connectivity with BA and other airline . Odhran Dunne , chief executive officer of Visit Derry , have say there be a " fantastic buzz " around that airport at the moment , and around what be happen in the north - west . it be great to see the work go on with the Northern Ireland Executive in support that airport , which be a driver of the regional economy . what support will the Government provide to Northern Ireland airport to ensure our continued and improve connectivity ? the previous Government promise £ 2 . 3 million to Belfast International airport in my constituency , under round 2 of the levelling - up fund , which would create job , reduce air and noise pollution , and improve the passenger experience . will the Minister provide an update on that ? it be great that the Northern Ireland Executive be up and run . in the devolution settlement they will be get more money , and it be a matter for they how they spend it . on Northern Ireland and particularly Belfast , only this week easyjet — the big airline operate out of there , provide 3 . 8 million seat — have introduce new route to Prague and Marrakech , and new aircraft . the future be bright for aviation in the Province . what conclusion do the Minister draw from the fact that dubious cancellation such as those we see yesterday be far more prevalent where there be a commercial monopoly on the route , such as there be between Belfast City and London City airport , which be the route affect yesterday ? if he draw the conclusion that connectivity be not help by a monopoly , what action do the Government intend to take to encourage competition on such route ? the hon . and learn Member state that case , but there be a very open market in connectivity , with a number of airline fly from Northern Ireland , and Belfast in particular , to the south - east and other UK destination . I refer he to my previous answer : when public service obligation come to be review we will look at the matter in the round . rest assure that I be keen on connectivity between our great nation . Bill present Tobacco and Vapes Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Wes Streeting , support by the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Yvette Cooper , Secretary Shabana Mahmood , Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , Secretary Hilary Benn , Secretary Ian Murray , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Secretary Jo Stevens , Secretary Steve Reed , and Andrew Gwynne present a Bill to make provision about the supply of tobacco , vape and other product , include provision prohibit the sale of tobacco to people bear on or after 1 January 2009 and provision about the licensing of retail sale and the registration of retailer ; to enable product and information requirement to be impose in connection with tobacco , vape and other product ; to control the advertising and promotion of tobacco , vape and other product ; and to make provision about smoke - free place , vape - free place and heated tobacco - free place . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 121 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 121 - en ) . poly and Perfluorinated Alkyl Substances ( Guidance ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Chief Inspector of Drinking Water to issue guidance to water company on poly and perfluorinated alkyl substance in drinking water ; and for connected purpose . decrease fertility , thyroid disease , miscarriage , reduce sperm quality , cancer . what do all those condition have in common ? they have all be link to the pervasive presence of PFAS — perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substance , well know as " forever chemical " . PFAS be use to make material heat , water , flame , or stain resistant . they be find in thousand of everyday product , from Teflon frying plan to raincoat to our toiletry . their bond be one of the strong in nature , able to stay intact for decade . in fact , those chemical be so long - lasting that scientist have not yet be able reliably to identify how long it might take to break they down . because they be so difficult to break down , once they get into our environment and our drinking water , PFAS can easily build up in our body . they can enter our bloodstream , and even be pass on to our child through breast milk . that have severe implication for intergenerational health . study have find that child expose to PFAS build up be at increase risk of low birth weight , weak bone , and immune resistance to vaccination . PFAS chemical be forever , and they be everywhere . these chemical be in the water we drink , the clothe we wear , the food we eat and even in the rain that fall from our sky . PFAS affect every single one of we , young and old . PFAS be all - pervasive , which make the scale of the challenge incredibly daunting , but we must start somewhere , and that be why I be call for the Government to start with our drinking water . despite all the alarming health risk I have just outline , there be currently no statutory regulation of PFAS chemical in England and Wales and no legal limit on the amount of PFAS present in our drinking water . there be only guidance that water be " wholesome " and a limit of 0 . 1 microgram for only 47 out of the thousand of exist PFAS chemical . it be fair to say that the presence of carcinogenic , non - degradable forever chemical make our water far from wholesome , and instead akin to a chemical cocktail that desperately need regulation . I should stress that these chemical be synthetic , not natural . before their manufacture start in the late 1940 , no PFAS be present in our environment . it be an injustice to future generation that they should have to suffer the consequence of exposure to these chemical before they be even bear . People may ask , " be PFAS a threat to we here in the UK ? " yes , they be , and I have only to look at my constituency to see it . the River Thames be at the beat heart of our community , where kayaker , paddle boarder and swimmer enjoy the river every day , yet the busy stretch of the River Thames in Teddington in my constituency have the sixth great concentration of PFAS in the UK between 2019 and 2022 . it be 11 time above the safe level set out by the EU , whose standard I will come to later . the Thames be a notoriously polluted river , but concern about our local water quality increase follow proposal by Thames Water to construct the Teddington direct river abstraction scheme , which would pump treat effluent into our precious waterway . it have be promise that the treat effluent would be the same quality as the river itself , yet there have be no assurance that compound and chemical such as PFAS would be filter out . when it come to raw sewage spill , the Marine Conservation Society note that there be no legal requirement for water company to monitor for PFAS in sewer overflow . a study conduct by the University of Portsmouth find that follow sewage discharge in Langstone harbour , the amount of one particular PFAS — perfluorobutanoic acid , or pfba — in seaweed be more than 6 , 000 time high than in the surround water . can we therefore rely on mere guidance to make water company take step to filter out these dangerous PFAS chemical from our water ? sadly , I do not think so . trust in water company be at an all - time low , thank to eye - water bill , the billion of litre of water lose through leak , sky - high bonus and illegal sewage dumping . against that backdrop , it be no surprise that people do not trust water company to safeguard our water quality . it be my belief that these water company will only take step if we make they do so , with bind limit set in law . exist guidance have fail to restrict the presence of PFAS . accord to the Wildlife and Countryside Link , not a single English river be in good chemical health . analysis by the Royal Society of Chemistry have reveal that more than a third of watercourse in England and Wales contain medium or high - risk level of PFAS , and just more than a third also contain two highly toxic pfa that have be ban internationally . however , official monitoring datum cover only a handful of PFAS chemical and not all river be test , so actual pollution level could be even bad . although I welcome the new Government ' s move to ban PFAS chemical present in firefighting foam , which be a significant source of PFAS , further action be need . the previous Government sit on their hand and ignore this emerge health threat , but as we discover more and more health risk from PFAS chemical every day , it be clear that they must be regulate more tightly as a chemical group , not as and when the threat be slowly identify . we all deserve access to clean water that do not put our health at risk . this be not radical action , as both the EU and US have take significant stride to tackle PFAS pollution in recognition of the multitude of health concern link to the chemical . the US have introduce a limit of 4 nanogram per litre for perfluorooctane sulfonic acid , or pfos , and perfluorooctanoic acid , or PFOA , while from January 2026 , EU member state will have to ensure that the sum of all PFAS in drinking water do not go above a limit of 0 . 5 microgram per litre . sadly , Brexit have mean that in the three and a half year since the UK leave the EU Registration , Evaluation , Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals regulation — the EU system of regulating chemical — our response to the grow threat of PFAS have move at a snail ' s pace and we have fall behind . other than one internationally ban substance , not a single restriction on a harmful substance have be adopt since the UK leave EU REACH in 2021 . that be in part due to the UK no long have access to the world ' s most comprehensive chemical registration database hold by the European Chemicals Agency ; we must now go through duplicate process for regulatory decision making . there be a clear need for european alignment , and I sincerely hope that the Government will keep their manifesto promise to see that through . it be also worth note that Scotland adhere to EU guideline , so it will be English and Welsh citizen who be leave without the protection our neighbour enjoy , which be a bizarre misalignment . if we do not regulate PFAS as a chemical group , we risk equally toxic new pollutant replace the one we regulate . we risk become a dumping ground for product with ban PFAS . we risk become the dirty man of Europe . in 2023 , the Health and Safety Executive identify PFAS chemical as a risk for consumer exposure and recommend legislation to limit the presence of these chemical in our drinking water . sadly , the previous Government do nothing , but my cross - party Bill provide a golden opportunity for the new Government to act to stem the untold harm be unleash on our land , water and people , and to answer the call of the hundred of group and hundred of thousand of citizen who be demand action . only last month , 59 of the world ' s lead scientist write to the Government urge they to adopt a more ambitious approach to the regulation of PFAS by regulate it as a group . surely it be time to listen . finally , I want to thank the organisation who have support I with this Bill and have long champion the cause well before I become aware of it , include the Royal Society of Chemistry , UK CHEM Trust , Wildlife and Countryside Link and the Marine Conservation Society . they and many other be dedicate to ensure that we have a country where we can safely enjoy nature and preserve people ' s health for generation to come . ultimately , this be not only about we , but about our child and our child ' s child . there be no well legacy we can pass on to they than to safeguard their health as good we can . this Bill would be a significant step towards achieve that . question put and agree to . order , that Munira Wilson , Tim Farron , Alex Sobel , James MacCleary , Alberto Costa , Edward Morello , Ellie Chowns , Sarah Olney , Ruth Cadbury , David Chadwick , Cameron Thomas and Mr Joshua Reynolds present the Bill . Munira Wilson accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 120 ) . way and Means Budget Resolutions Income Tax ( Charge ) Debate resume ( Order , 4 November ) . question again propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2025 - 26 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . this Budget be the moment we turn the page on 14 year of Tory neglect of our NHS , when we begin to fix the foundation of our public finance and public service , when we wipe the slate clean after 14 year of stagnant growth and under - investment , and when we start to rebuild Britain . this Government be elect to deliver change : from economic chaos to stability , from crumble school and hospital to first - class public service , and from short - term stick plaster to a decade of national renewal . on Wednesday , the Chancellor take the tough decision to set our country on a well path to a bright future . labour ' s manifesto promise to protect the payslip of work people while ask the wealthy to pay more , and the Chancellor deliver . we promise economic stability through new fiscal rule , and the Chancellor deliver . we promise more teacher in our state school pay for by end tax break on private school , and the Chancellor deliver . we promise to end the non - dom tax status to fund 40 , 000 extra NHS appointment a week , and the Chancellor deliver . our country , our economy and our NHS be cry out for change , and the Chancellor deliver . she do so against the backdrop of the most appalling inheritance face by any government since the second world war — and not just the £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . let I set out for the House exactly what I be greet with in my Department alone when I walk through the door on 5 July . the Conservatives have tell the country that they be on track to build 40 new hospital by 2030 . the former Health Secretary tell the House that the funding have be provide . put aside the fact that there be never actually 40 new hospital plan , I be inform in July not only that the programme be year behind schedule but that the funding be to run out in March . the only place those hospital exist be in Boris Johnson ' s imagination . the Conservatives promise to cap social care cost by October 2025 , just 15 month after the general election , but there be not a single penny set aside to pay for it ; the cupboard be completely bare . within week of the general election , council be warn that it would be impossible to implement the cap by next October because the preparation have not be make . those be fantasy pledge that the conservative never intend on keep . rise — I be happy to give way to the hon . Gentleman to tell we why . on the new hospital programme , the Government commit in the Budget to move swiftly to rebuild reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete hospital . the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn be keen to make progress with its plan . will he meet I and the trust so that we can unlock the funding and get that hospital ready by 2030 ? that be a commitment that we have make and a commitment that we will keep . I be happy to ensure that the hon . Member can meet the relevant Minister and project team as we get under way on deliver that project . I do actually go back to check the pledge make by the conservative party in its 2024 manifesto just to see how extensive the work of fiction be , only to find that the manifesto page on its website now read " page not find " . the truth be , have the Conservatives win the election , it would have be delete just as quickly . that be not all I be tell when I become Secretary of State in July . despite 18 month of strike in the NHS , there be no funding put aside to end the junior doctor ' dispute . what be more , the previous Health Secretary have not meet the resident doctor since March — the Conservatives have give up even attempt to end the strike . People should remember that this winter . for all the challenge that the NHS will face , this will be the first winter in three year when NHS staff will be on the frontline , not the picket line . that be the difference that a Labour Budget make . I be tell that GPs would be qualify this year with no job to go into . the Government find the funding and we be hire an extra 1 , 000 GPs this year . that be the difference that a Labour Budget make . on the Budget , GPs , hospice and care home have be find to be either exempt or not exempt from the national insurance contribution . will he clarify whether hospice , care home and primary care be exempt or not ? that really matter to their cost . I be grateful for that intervention for two reason . first , it give I an opportunity to say to GPs , hospice and other part of the health and care system that will be affect by employer ' national insurance contribution change that I be well aware of the pressure , we have not make allocation for the year ahead , and I will take those representation seriously . secondly , it give I a chance to ask the hon . Member and the opposition : do they support the investment or not ? be they choose to invest in the NHS or not ? they be now confront with the hard reality of opposition . just as when we be in opposition we have to set out how much every single one of our policy would cost and how those would be fund , they have to do that now . if they oppose the investment , they have to tell we where they would make the cut in the NHS . if they oppose the investment , they have to tell we where they would make the cut in school budget . those be the choice that we have make , and we stand by those choice . the opposition will have to set out their choice , too . I be tell that because the Conservatives have run up huge deficit in NHS finance , I would not be able to deliver the 40 , 000 extra appointment a week that we have promise . in fact , I be tell that we would have to cut 20 , 000 appointment a week instead . the Chancellor and I be not prepared to see waiting list rise far . she put the funding in , and an extra 40 , 000 patient will be treat by the NHS each week . that be the difference that a Labour Budget make . it would be churlish of anybody in the House not to welcome the £ 22 billion that have be allocate to the NHS . everyone across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will benefit from that . a number of my GP surgery have contact I about their national insurance contribution , which they see as a catalyst to perhaps not be able to deliver what they want to do for their patient . I understand that the Labour party and Government be look at that in a consensual way . can the Secretary of State please give I the late position so that I can go back to my gps and tell they , " this have be look at and there will be something come " ? I be grateful for that intervention . it be of course for the devolved administration to decide how to use the Barnett consequential that the generous uplift in funding provide by the Chancellor will provide . we make no bone about it : we have to make some difficult choice in the Budget to plug the £ 22 billion black hole that we inherit , to deliver on our promise and to ensure that we be fix the foundation of our economy and our public service . we have ask business and some of the wealthy to make a contribution . I say to people right across the House that they can not welcome the investment at the same time as oppose the mean to raise it . if they do , they have to explain how they would find the money . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his success in get this extra money for our national health service , which be incredibly need . he speak about the extra gps that he be take on . the doctor ' surgery in Staveley in my constituency have tell I that surgery in the most deprived community see patient two or three time a year more than those in wealthy area . will he say something about how we ensure that the extra GPs we get look in particular at those more deprived community that have great health inequality and need more appointment ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about equity and fairness of access . the Government be determined to close the gap in healthy life expectancy and health inequality that blight our nation . GPs and primary care be an important part of do that . unless we fix the front door to the NHS in primary care , we will not solve our NHS crisis . unless we address the crisis in social care , we will not fix the NHS crisis . we will be able to do that only if we do so right across the country . I fully understand the crisis that the Secretary of State inherit . he will be aware that most hospital be run at a deficit , many have substantial debt and many be spend up to 15 % of their income on service private finance initiative . be his Department prepare to make some kind of intervention to reduce that burden , perhaps by take over the pfi directly in order for our hospital to be able to spend more on what they be there for , which be , of course , patient care ? I be grateful for that intervention . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that we walk into a position of enormous deficit in the NHS , and an enormous black hole in the public finance be leave by the last government . that be why we have have to make some difficult choice . that be why we have to learn from the mistake of the past and not repeat they in future . we be do as much as we can as fast as we can . that be why it be important that the Chancellor make the bold choice she do in her Budget , so that , as well as plug the black hole , we be fix the foundation . thank to the fiscal rule adopt by the Chancellor , we will ensure that the Government do not repeat the waste , the profligacy and the irresponsible spending of our conservative predecessor . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will make some more progress . speak of the Conservative party , I welcome the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) to his new position as the shadow Health and Social Care Secretary — the good job in the Opposition . in the two and a half year that I do his job , I face five Health Secretaries . I be determined to make sure he face only one . I have differ relationship with each of my predecessor . at well , we go hammer and tong in this place , thrash out our disagreement , but we would also get on the phone and work together in the national interest , particularly during covid when I have a particularly constructive work relationship with Sir Sajid Javid . I hope we can work together in that spirit . if he have any idea to fix our break nhs I be all ear — he just need to go to change . nhs . uk , as hundred of thousand of people across the country have already do . I must disappoint he , however : I will not be fire out of a cannon . choose to serve be not always easy , especially in a job as thankless as be a member of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . let I applaud the right hon . Gentleman for step up to the plate . have do his job until recently , I have some advice : first , it be easy to oppose for opposition ' s sake , but the public will rightly expect he to have an alternative . the Leader of the opposition refuse to say at the weekend how Conservative Members will vote on the Budget . apparently , whether they support or oppose £ 26 billion of investment in our NHS be , to quote she , " inside baseball " . if the conservative finally decide to oppose the Chancellor ' s measure , they will need to say what they would do instead . would they keep our investment in the NHS ? if so , how would they pay for it ? would they cancel our investment and the extra appointment , send doctor and nurse back out on strike or cause waiting list to soar even higher ? the conservative party have to choose . at the moment , our only clue about the future of the party be the Leader of the Opposition ' s comment about charge patient to use the NHS . she give an interview to the Times just week ago in which , on the principle that the NHS should be free at the point of use , she say : " we need to have a serious cross - party , national conversation . " I be happy for the conservative party to start that conversation any time . as far as I be concern , it will be a short debate , and we will win : the answer be no . the Labour party will never surrender on the principle of the NHS be a public service , publicly fund and free at the point of use . it be time that the Leader of the Opposition make her position clear — although she have take to opposition with such vigour , she tend to oppose thing she say herself only day before . I welcome the Leader of the Opposition ' s call for honesty . the public have lose trust in politic , and we all have a responsibility to rebuild it . if we be not honest about the scale of the challenge and its cause , we have no hope of fix they . would it not be a welcome start to the role if the new shadow Secretary of State admit what a mess his party make of our national health service and say sorry ? it be not all the right hon . Gentleman ' s fault ; in fact , he and I have something in common . when he walk into the Department in 2019 , he also inherit waiting list already at record level . it be true that waiting list soar even far during the pandemic , but they be already at record level before , and they continue to rise afterwards because of the damage that the conservative party do to our NHS . the Darzi investigation be clear about what be to blame : the top - down reorganisation , the chronic under - investment and the undoing of the last Labour Government ' s reform that see NHS productivity fall off a cliff . can the shadow Health and Social Care Secretary do what his predecessor could not , and accept the doctor ' s diagnosis ? do this new conservative leadership finally accept Lord Darzi ' s finding ? if the right hon . Gentleman can not accept the work of an eminent cancer surgeon who have serve both Labour and conservative Governments , I wonder if he might agree with this damn assessment of his party ' s record , make by one of his former colleague : " british citizen have the bad rate of life expectancy in western Europe . we have high avoidable mortality rate than our neighbour . survival rate for breast , cervical , rectal , lung , stomach and colon cancer be low in the UK than in comparable jurisdiction . nhs patient who suffer heart attack or stroke be more likely to die than in France , Spain , the Netherlands , Canada , Italy and New Zealand . More than seven million people be on waiting list . . . every month , ten of thousand wait more than 12 hour for treatment after be admit to accident and emergency ward . it be then no surprise that the number of ( wealthy ) patient opt to pay to be treat privately be at a record level . . . so we have a two - tier health system in this country in which the rich secure the good care , those in pain wait in agony and those with life - threaten condition know their treatment would be well in Marseille or Madrid than in Manchester or Middlesbrough . " the author of that quote be Michael Gove . if he can be honest about the mess the Conservatives make of the NHS , I hope the right hon . Gentleman can , too . while the Conservatives work out what they stand for , we be get on with clean up their mess , rebuild our public service and reform our NHS . as I say before the election , there be no point pour more money into a broken system . next week I will set out a package of reform to make sure that every penny go into the NHS be well spend and benefit patient . unless I be convinced that the money go in will deliver result , it will not get out the door . every bit of investment announce by the Chancellor last week will be link to reform . the Budget will fund 40 , 000 extra appointment a week , and the appointment will be deliver through reform way of work . they be already be use in hospital across the river from here , where operating theatre be run like Formula 1 pit - stop . we will get hospital motor right across the country use that reform way of working . we be invest not just in new scanner but ai - enable scanner that diagnose fast and more accurately , increase productivity and bust the backlog of 1 . 5 million patient wait for test and scan . the investment in the Budget have fire the starting pistol on the three shift that our 10 - year plan will deliver . it increase the disabled facility grant , to help people stay well , independent and out of hospital , fund an extra 8 , 000 adaptation to people ' s home . we be raise the carer ' s allowance , worth an extra £ 2 , 300 to family carer so that they can stay in work while look after their love one . that be the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 . we be expand NHS talk therapy to treat an extra 380 , 000 mental health patient . we be invest in brick and mortar outside of hospital , open new mental health crisis centre and upgrade 200 gp surgery . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the extra investment that he have secure for the national health service , in spite of the Chancellor . do he agree that primary care need to be diversify ? could he outline whether that include walk - in centre ? if it do , could I have a meeting to discuss a new walk - in centre at Fareham community hospital in my constituency ? I be not sure whether this be within the rule of the House — you will tell I if not , Madam Deputy Speaker — but I will do the hon . member a deal : if he vote for the investment , he can have the meeting . turn to the second of the big shift that we need , from analogue to digital , the Darzi investigation find that the Conservatives leave the NHS 15 year behind the private sector on technology . this Budget invest £ 2 billion to arm the NHS with modern technology so that staff spend less time push paper and more time on the frontline . in 2024 , that the NHS be still use paper record to store patient ' medical history be absurd and jeopardise patient safety . the investment in this Budget will provide every trust with electronic patient record , and upgrade the NHS app so that patient can access care with a few tap on their phone . we be back british scientist and researcher to develop the treatment of the future , with record investment in the National Institute for Health and Care Research , support for life science innovation and strengthen the UK clinical trial network . we be also shift from sickness to prevention . today , we have announce the big public sector health reform in a generation . we be raise the legal age at which people can buy tobacco by one year , every year , protect child and people from the harmful effect of second - hand smoke outdoors as well as indoor . we be crack down on the marketing and target of vape at child , so that we can create the first ever smokefree generation . unless we act on public health reform and public service reform , the demand and cost on the NHS will spiral and the service will become unsustainable . if we want the health service to survive , and we do not want to pay ever high taxis to fund it , we have to help people stay healthy . prevention be well than cure — that be why we be introduce the Bill . I hope it will continue to command cross - party support . it be not just smoking ; obesity cost the NHS almost £ 12 billion a year . that be why we have already introduce the motion to ban the targeting of junk food ad at kid . we be strengthen council ' power to stop fast - food shop set up outside school . in the Budget the Chancellor increase the soft drink industry levy so that manufacturer continue to reduce their sugar content while we review the exemption for milk - base drink . Madam Deputy Speaker , as you know , it be a Conservative Chancellor who introduce the sugar tax and a conservative Prime Minister who introduce the first Tobacco and Vapes Bill . because he be sensible , I know the shadow Health and Social Care Secretary will support those measure , but I can not say the same for the Leader of the Opposition , so trap in the prison of ideological dogma be she , so scared be she of the Reform dog that be bark over their shoulder . I hope the shadow Health Secretary will continue to hold the torch for one nation conservatism , even as its light dim in his party . if we want to know when the conservative party have change , maybe we will know when they have learn once again to love George Osborne . fix the foundation of the NHS start with fix its little foundation . Lord Darzi point to how the Conservatives raid capital budget time and again to plug the gap in day - to - day spending . indeed , that be the position we find ourselves walk into this year . Lord Darzi call it a " combination of austerity and capital starvation " . the Budget will begin to rebuild our NHS with the big capital investment since Labour be last in office , include £ 1 billion to tackle dangerous RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — and the backlog of critical maintenance and repair across the NHS estate , keep staff and patient safe and boost productivity . in conclusion , we can not fix 14 year of mismanagement and neglect in one go , but the Budget mark an historic turning point for our country . for year the conservative pretend that the problem face Britain do not exist , leave they to grow . this week , the Chancellor run head first into those challenge , take the tough , difficult decision on tax , spending and welfare because the choice be stark : we could stick to the status quo of 14 year of underinvestment that have knee - cap our economy and cripple our NHS , or we could begin to fix the foundation , kick - start the economy and rebuild our health service . the choice the Chancellor make will give the NHS the investment and reform it desperately need to cut waiting time , rebuild crumble building , arm NHS staff with modern technology , get more out of the NHS for what we put in , and fix the foundation and rebuild Britain . that be the change the country vote for ; that be the change this Labour Budget deliver . it be a pleasure and a privilege to be work once again in health and social care , although a disappointment to be do it from the Opposition Benches . it be a privilege because , like the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care now , I have the privilege in government of work with the amazing and dedicated people who work in our NHS and in social care up and down the country . it be a pleasure to be back . it be a pleasure to be opposite the Secretary of State , as he now be . I remember our tussle back in the day , when I be sit over there and he be sit here . I be sufficiently fond of the right hon . gentleman to encourage he not to get himself fire out of a cannon , as he allude to . although I will say one thing for it : it would not only draw attention to his day job , but possibly even aid he in his ambition to secure his boss ' s job in due course . in respect of his comment about the Leader of the Opposition , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , I would only say very gently that she should probably take that as a compliment . when the right hon . gentleman attack someone in that way , it probably mean that they be somewhat frit of she . I think he will see in the come week and month why that be so . we have already see and hear over the previous day of debate that this be unequivocally a Budget of broken promise . despite the pledge make over the course of the election and the commitment give to the british people , in reality those word mean nothing to the Labour party once it secure the key to no . 10 . instead , we have see taxis hike on work people : the people who provide food security and food every day , our farmer , hit hard by the change that have be make . we see living standard set to fall and mortgage rate likely to rise . we see taxis up , we see borrow up , we see debt up , and we see that growth will be down on where it could and should be . unfortunately , I fear , that pattern of broken promise also apply to the NHS and our social care sector . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give way and congratulate he on his new appointment . he be obviously very critical of the Government ' s attempt to alleviate the appalling financial legacy that his party bequeath to the nation . do he support the extra investment for the health service , and be it just the way of pay for it that he be against ? or be he actually oppose to it ? I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman . in his allusion to the Labour party ' s inheritance , he miss the fact that the Office for Budget Responsibility singularly fail to back up the assertion make about the quantum of challenge the incoming government face . time and again , the right hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , both in opposition and now as Secretary of State , have promise that any more money for the NHS have to be link to reform . he have do that again today . the week before the Budget , he say that " extra investment in the NHS must be link to reform " . in September , the Prime Minister himself say : " no more money without reform " . they be right on that . the Opposition support that condition , because it be only with reform that the NHS can sustainably continue to look after we for year to come . yet I fear that this risk be another broken promise . I say to he now that where he be bold and provide genuine reform to benefit patient , he will have our support . equally , if he bow to internal pressure and back away from the radical reform that be need , we will hold he to account . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make a little progress before give way to the hon . Gentleman . I congratulate the Health Secretary on win round 1 with the Treasury — I look across the Chamber and see the Chief Secretary to the Treasury on the Government Front Bench — in secure extra investment . he have secure more than £ 22 billion announce for the NHS , but without , as yet , any detailed indication of where that funding will go . I look forward to he return to the House to set out the detail — I think he say that would be next week . what it must do be genuinely improve outcome for patient and our NHS , rather than simply be focus on the headline figure of the input to it . there be , as yet , no clue as to whether it will be spend on wage , recruit more staff , medicine or equipment ; no clue as to how it will deliver the 40 , 000 additional appointment that have be promise ; and no condition link the funding , as yet , to productivity improvement , modernisation or well outcome for patient . what we need to hear next week from the Secretary of State be an actual plan . as he mention , the right hon . Gentleman become shadow Health Secretary three year ago . I hope that in that time he have have an opportunity to think about what he want to do and that he will actually set that out to the House next week . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his new position . on the theme of broken promise and capital investment , and in the spirit of a fresh start , I wonder whether he will extend an apology to my constituent who be promise a new hospital under the new hospital programme , which be never fund in any forward - look Budget document ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . if he pause for just a moment , I will turn to capital investment and seek to address his point . will the shadow Secretary of State give way on that point ? I will make a little progress , but then I will happily give way to my hon . friend . apart from the press release and the review , where be the action ? we need to see where the £ 22 billion will be spend . what plan do the Secretary of State have for additional investment for the NHS this winter ? he know , as I know when I be a Minister , that winter in the NHS be always challenge . I look forward to he set out what additional investment he plan . on that point . I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) in a second . nice try , Secretary of State . be the right hon . Gentleman direct where that NHS funding go himself , or will it be for his official or NHS England to set the priority for that , and who will be hold accountable for ensure that it be prioritise in the right place ? I thank my right hon . friend for give way and congratulate he on his appointment as shadow Secretary of State . do he share my concern that , although the extra investment in the NHS be welcome , the lack of clarity from a Budget in which growth have actually be revise down mean that in future year we could see additional investment in the NHS actually be cut back , because the Budget do not deliver the growth for public service investment ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . you can not tax your way to growth and you can not invest in public service without that growth . if the prediction we be see about growth be bear out , there be a real risk to our public service ' sustainability in future . the Chancellor say that the funding would help to deliver 40 , 000 more NHS appointment a week , but again we see no reference to specific action by which that will be achieve . the Government seem not to know the difference between a target and a plan , and simply restate their ambition while throw money at the challenge will not be enough to deliver on that commitment . as I have say , element of the Budget relate to the Department of Health and Social Care be welcome , one of they be the Secretary of State ' s one - nil win over the Chief Secretary in respect of funding . an additional £ 2 billion to drive productivity be important . I fear that it be a slimme - down version of the £ 3 . 4 billion NHS productivity plan that we announce and fund , but I will study it closely , and , similarly , the Secretary of State ' s plan for mental health be deserve of serious study . on both side of this Chamber , we recognise the importance in mental health investment of not only parity of esteem but parity of service , and it be therefore right for we to scrutinise very carefully how the right hon . Gentleman intend to build far on the success that we have in drive that agenda forward . let I now turn to the subject of capital investment , which be touch on by the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) . it concern I that , as far as I be aware , the Secretary of State have still not tell we exactly when his review of the new hospital programme will report and set out the future for each and every one of the hospital that he commit himself to deliver during the election campaign — the programme to which the previous Chancellor have commit funding , build on the original £ 3 . 7 billion allocate in 2019 . the question for the Government , and the question for the Chief Secretary to answer when he wind up the debate , be : " when will that review report , and when will each and every one of those colleague and community who be look forward to a new hospital know whether it will be deliver in line with the Secretary of State ' s pledge , or whether the programme will be cut ? " nearly a week after the Budget , Members will be familiar with the verdict of the Office for Budget Responsibility : namely , that the £ 25 billion assault on business risk low wage , low living standard and low growth . and let we not forget what this tax hike will mean for those provide essential service across primary , secondary and social care — the general practice , care home , adult social care provider , community pharmacist on our high street , hospice and charity such as Marie Curie and Macmillan which provide additional care for patient alongside the NHS . I be deeply disappointed that the Secretary of State do not take the opportunity offer by my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) to state clearly that all those group would be exempt and would not be hit by this hike , and I hope that when the Chief Secretary wind up the debate he will be able to give that reassurance . the Royal College of General Practitioners have warn that the extra cost of the employer ' s national insurance hike could force GP surgery to make redundancy or close altogether , and the Independent Pharmacies Association have warn that community pharmacy will have to find an extra £ 12 , 000 a year , on average , to pay for the hike . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place . I be wait for the Health Secretary to turn to devolution issue , but he never quite do . we have a particular issue in Scotland : up to £ 500 million of extra cost will be force on to the NHS there because of that national insurance hike . we have hear no commitment from the Secretary of State that he will meet those cost in full , and we look forward to hear such a commitment . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will share my concern about what this be do to devolve service across the United Kingdom . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the ill - thought - out consequence of this hike for hospice and general practice , both in Scotland and elsewhere . I would dearly love to be able to respond to his question . sadly , however , I be on this the side of the House and not the other side , but I be sure that the Chief Secretary will attempt to do so . the Nuffield Trust have say that without additional financial support , the tax raid be likely to force social care provider to pass high cost on to people who pay for their own care , or potentially collapse financially . charity be not exempt either . as a result of the increase in the national living wage and employer ' s national insurance contribution , one of the UK ' s large social care charity say it be face an unfunded increase wage bill of £ 12 million a year , and Marie Curie have warn that the rise in employer ' s NI contribution will only serve to put the service that it deliver on behalf of the NHS under further pressure . those charity will be look to the Chief Secretary to say what succour he can offer they in the form of an assurance that they will not be hit . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place , but before throw stone , will he just remind the House that under his Government ' s plan , there would have be £ 15 billion less for the NHS , leave it broken ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place as well . I think this be the first opportunity I have have to respond to a intervention or question from she . in fact , we put record funding into the NHS — £ 164 . 9 billion per year — and on top of that we recruit more doctor and more nurse . we do not do that by pile tax hike on hospice and general practice , among other . I be not sure how hit primary care , social care or charity support NHS service will help the Secretary of State to deliver his aim of cut waiting list . I hope that the Chief Secretary will tell the House what step the Treasury be take to ensure that those organisation be not hit by these change . let I take a moment to consider what be not include in the Budget . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make a bit of progress , if I may . there be no plan for social care reform after the Chancellor break labour ' s promise to deliver the cap on social care cost . I hear what the Secretary of State say about a willingness to work on what be a challenge face our whole country and society : with an age population , how do we address the challenge of social care ? there be no far detailed plan for NHS dentistry , despite the election pledge to deliver more dental appointment . there be no support for pharmacy or for the day - to - day running of general practice , and there be still no additional resource for the NHS this winter — or , indeed , the detail of reform to go with they . the right hon . Gentleman speak about the investment that the last Conservative Government put into the NHS . can he tell I what the outcome of that investment be ? from my point of view , the outcome be long waiting list , poor health and bad patient care . we increase investment significantly , not only to tackle the inevitable consequence of a global covid pandemic — which , as we all know , hit our NHS hard — but to build back well subsequently , which be the task that we begin to perform . we have always say that investment in the NHS must be marry to reform in order to deliver well patient outcome and value for money , build on the reform that we introduce in the Health and Care Act 2022 and ensure that the NHS will be there to look after we for decade to come . the Secretary of State have work with I before , and we will work with any party , include his . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I give way to the hon . Gentleman early . I be afraid I want to conclude my remark , because I be keen for other to have a chance to speak . that offer to the Secretary of State stand . I be always happy to work constructively with he when he be willing to work constructively with I . he know that we have do that before , not least as we emerge from the pandemic , when I be still a Minister in the Department . unfortunately , despite the rhetoric , I fear that the Budget be a miss opportunity that will not achieve the ambition the Government have set out . as I have say , we can not tax our way to growth , and without growth we can not sustainably fund public service . I urge the right hon . Gentleman to be brave , to stand up to those in his party who would have he back down or water down reform , and to deliver a genuinely radical plan for the future of our NHS and for social care that work for those who work in it , but also , crucially , for all the people who rely on it . our constituent deserve nothing less from he . I call Kate Osamor . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I so early in the debate . I be not expect that . I very much welcome the investment in our NHS , and our renew focus on public service . the Budget mark a break from the approach of the last Government , who preside over the decline of our health system . with this renew investment , the big since 2010 , there be now some hope that we can turn a dire situation around . we must improve patient outcome , reduce waiting time and support the hard - work staff who form the backbone of our health system . however , I want to stress to the Secretary of State — my constituency neighbour — that investment must focus not only on deliver number , but on quality of care , with a human touch and equal access for all . that require we to reject the creep privatisation of our health service , which have prove costly , inefficient and bad for patient . before come to this House , I work in the NHS as a practice manager in the London borough of Enfield . I also work in an out - of - hour GP co - operative , which cover north and east London . I know from first - hand experience that GP surgery and core NHS service must remain publicly own and accountable to their patient and staff , the public and stakeholder . furthermore , I have deep reservation about the current plan to grant the NHS datum platform contract to Palantir , which raise serious question about privacy , security and the future of our NHS data infrastructure . I be listen very carefully to what the hon . Lady say about her experience as a practice manager . over this past weekend and the last two day , I have be contact by local practice in my constituency that be concerned about the impact of the national insurance change on their ability to provide patient care and the vital first step towards get people into the hospital and through the waiting list . do the hon . Lady agree that we have to address that as a fundamental problem that be potentially create by this Budget ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . I would add that it be important that patient , doctor and everyone else be listen to . I be assure that the Secretary of State will be listen to all voice . NHS datum be a public asset . its management should be root firmly within the NHS , not place in the hand of private interest , especially those control by an individual who be so hostile to the principle of public healthcare . our NHS thrive due to the work of everyone in the system , from nurse to administrative staff and healthcare assistant , who each play a critical role in patient care . we must listen to all NHS staff , not just those in the highest - rank medical role , as everyone bring valuable frontline perspective on improve efficiency , patient experience and accessibility . I especially draw attention to the hard - work staff who provide out - of - hour service for our community , often do so on top of their normal hour . the Government must ensure that those professional receive not only recognition , but the resource and support they need to continue serve our community in this vital way . staff in out - of - hour service often only work in such setting part time . however , they be often the last resort for people who be unable to get appointment with their gp or access the care they need . we must also address the postcode lottery in healthcare . for various condition , disparity persist in access to specialist , wait time and outcome in relation to area , ethnicity and gender . the stark reality be that mental health service remain woefully inadequate . we face a mental health crisis , especially among young people , and this impact on personal wellbeing and ruin life chance . we urgently need target investment in mental health service , and I look forward to support the Government in ensure that the crisis in mental health support be treat with the seriousness it demand . this Budget be a strong step in the right direction , but we must go far to ensure that the NHS remain public , that mental health be prioritise and that all NHS staff have a voice in shape the future of our health system . I ask the Secretary of State to focus on all those area , because I believe that if we have consistent investment throughout this Parliament , we can ensure that we make progress towards an nhs that work and in which everyone be able to access the quality and timely care that they justly deserve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I declare an interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I welcome the shadow Secretary of State to his place . he respond to my first Adjournment debate on a Thursday before Easter , and I be very grateful , but he will be disappoint to hear that we have not see the improvement in ambulance response time that we would have like to see in Shropshire . last week ' s Budget bring £ 22 billion of investment for the NHS . by anybody ' s standard , that be a big number , so the Liberal Democrats welcome the investment . the NHS be leave in a dire state by the Conservatives , and it be clear that something radical must be do . what be the Conservatives ' legacy ? well , we all know : crumble hospital , 7 million people on NHS waiting list for secondary operation , our constituent struggle to access a gp when they need one , dental desert such as the one in North Shropshire , appal ambulance wait time with horrify outcome , and a tsunami of a mental health crisis wait to overwhelm we . it be clear that investment be need , which be why the Liberal Democrats put the NHS at the front of our election manifesto and our campaigning since . it be very important that the £ 22 billion be spend wisely to keep people healthy and to save money in the future , so I look forward to hear how the Budget will affect the public health grant and mental health service in particular . those be two really important area where we can invest to save taxpayer ' money , and to get well health outcome for people and avoid their suffering in the future . it be also really important that the £ 22 billion of investment be not undermine by a decision make by the same government on the very same day . it be hard to believe that the decision to increase employer ' s national insurance contribution and to lower the threshold — at a cost of £ 566 per person — be properly think through before the Budget be deliver last Wednesday . that decision be go to hit GP practice , hospice , social care provider and the charity that provide so much additional care outside the formal NHS structure . a local gp get in touch with I over the weekend to say that the decision will " serve to directly undermine access and patient care at a time when practice be already under strain due to year of neglect . " another say it will " kill the family doctor " . why will it kill the family doctor ? because GP practice be not eligible for employment allowance . they can not put up their price , and their only option be to cut staff and service , which would be a disaster . the Conservative Government prove that if we cut the number of GPs , we end up with a really big problem in the NHS — one that we be fight now . labour ' s plan to increase the number of GPs , which be welcome , be surely in jeopardy because of the increase to employer ' s nic . the Liberal Democrats be call on the Government to exempt GPs from the NIC hike or ensure that they be fund to cover it . otherwise , no one be go to see their gp within seven day — a right that the liberal Democrats think people should have . I want to touch on social care , which feel a bit like the elephant in the room and be likely to be significantly affect by the change in threshold and rate of employer ' s national insurance contribution . we all know that the sector be in crisis , and the Budget take note of this but do not really go far enough to address it . I think we can all agree that we can not fix the NHS without fix social care . we know that there be thousand of patient in hospital who be medically fit to be discharge and who would recover well in their own bed at home , but who be stick in a hospital because the social care package be not available to allow they to return home . that bed block , which be a horrible term , cause patient to be unable to flow through a hospital when they be admit . it cause the queue of 12 , 13 or 14 ambulance that we see outside hospital in Shropshire on a regular basis , and it mean that those ambulance do not arrive when somebody be in a life - threaten position in their community . social care be so important in deal with this urgent problem . as the MP for South Shropshire , I have be in the same meeting as the hon . Lady , who represent North Shropshire . in Shropshire , about 80 % of council funding go to social care . do the hon . member believe that we need a fair system to support funding for social care in Shropshire ? fair funding for rural authority , and indeed all local authority , be something I have talk about many time in this House , and I absolutely agree with the hon . gentleman on that . we see £ 600 million allocate to social care in the Budget and an increase in the national living wage , both of which be obviously welcome , but the huge pressure on private provider as a result of the national insurance contribution increase will be really problematic , unless council be fund to pay those additional cost . it be not clear that the funding announce in the Budget will even touch the side of the crisis in local government funding or in social care . we all know that this be a thorny problem , and that fund social care be extremely expensive and difficult ; that be why cross - party talk be so urgent . I urge the Secretary of State to instigate those as soon as possible , so that we can work towards a permanent fix for social care . liberal Democrats believe that free personal care on the Scotland model would be the good way of achieve that , and the Institute for Public Policy Research say that we could save £ 3 . 3 billion by 2031 by implement that model . that would be a good investment , because it would save taxpayer money and it would keep people in their home — where they want to be — with dignity . the debate today cover other public service , and I want to touch on a couple ; education be an important one , and we welcome the investment in it , but I want to talk a bit about SEND budget and local authority . school be under enormous pressure to provide SEND measure for the child they look after , and local authority be under huge pressure to provide transport and specialist place . the £ 1 billion for local government will be insufficient to deal with social care , the SEND crisis and SEND transport . as the hon . member for South Shropshire ( Stuart Anderson ) mention , Shropshire council be spend about 80 % of its budget on social care , so without adequate measure for social care , it seem unlikely that this Budget will address all the problem that local authority need to deal with . we be therefore concerned about the decision to put vat on private school fee . school such as Oswestry school in my constituency take a relatively large number of pupil who have fail to thrive in a large setting . they have special educational need but no education , health and care plan , and they might even have refuse school altogether . there be a risk that those child , whose parent be save hard to put they into that alternative place , will end up back in the state sector , where their need be not meet . they might refuse to go to school , and the school would struggle to cope with those additional child . the capital expenditure be welcome , and I hope that the demountable building at the Corbet school in Baschurch will benefit from that announcement , but I urge the Government to reconsider some of those measure . on transport , it be disappointing to see the bus fare cap increase , although in Shropshire it will not make any difference , because it be almost impossible to catch a bus anywhere . we would really like to see some of the detail behind the public transport plan announce by the Chancellor , particularly the bus service improvement plan that Shropshire council have put forward , and railway scheme such as the Oswestry to Berwyn line . finally — it may be stretch it to call this a point about public service — I believe that farmer provide an essential public service in feed we , look after the countryside and protect the rural environment , and it be disappointing to see that there be confusion between the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Treasury about how many farm will be affect . my sense from talk to local farmer in Shropshire be that the DEFRA number be more accurate . do the hon . Lady not see that by oppose every measure in the Budget to raise money while support every measure to spend more money on our vital public service , she be create a big problem than the one we inherit from the last government ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . the point that we be try to make be that some of the Budget measure will cost extra money . if we look at the detail on the national insurance contribution hike , for example , we see that change in behaviour and exemption for the NHS will reduce the amount of money raise to about £ 10 billion . we have absolutely put forward alternative measure to raise £ 10 billion . whether by reverse the Tories ' cut to the banking taxis or by put taxis on online medium giant , we would find alternative way to raise those fund . the point about private school fee be the same . if we overburden the state sector with child who have special educational need , difficulty and disability , those child will not have their need meet , and that will cost we more in the future . this be all about make sensible choice to save taxpayer money in the future and , most importantly , deliver public service to the people who need they most , whether they be try to access NHS care or whether they need help to get through their school career in order to thrive and achieve their potential . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be just about to conclude , so I will carry on . I be about to talk about farmer and the concern difference between DEFRA and the Treasury on the number of farm that will be affect . my sense from talk to farmer locally be that the DEFRA number be more likely to be accurate , and I therefore think there may have be a serious misstep in the plan to raise what will be a relatively small amount of money . liberal Democrats welcome investment in the NHS . we welcome the ambition to undo the damage work on this vital service by the previous Government , but we be concerned that , in social care in particular , we be in danger of kick a thorny problem down the road . we urge the Government to consider immediate cross - party talk on fund social care and provide a long - term solution . we be also really worried about the impact of increase national insurance contribution on key provider outside hospital . we can not have gps go out of business because of a Government measure that be intend to improve and expand their service . my constituent be feed up with be take for grant by the Conservatives and they vote emphatically to change that situation , but I be sure that they be very worried that they be about to be ignore by Labour . I urge the Government to rethink their damaging policy on national insurance contribution and the care sector , to have another look at the impact of the Budget on family farm , which I think may have be underestimate , and to back the infrastructure that rural area need . rise — member will be aware that this be a very heavily subscribe debate , so a time limit will be come , but not until after we have hear some maiden speech . I call Juliet Campbell . it be an honour and a privilege to be make my maiden speech in this Budget debate . our plan for the NHS and public service give I hope , and a sense of pride that they will once again be here , ready for all of we . I make my maiden speech today with a sense of gratitude and humility , and I thank my Broxtowe constituent for put their trust in I to represent they here in this esteemed place . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Darren Henry , for all he have do for the resident in Broxtowe . Darren work hard to establish banking hub and continue the effort of Anna Soubry in work with local group to fight for our railway service . their work in secure step - free access to Beeston station will give everyone the opportunity to visit our brilliant constituency . I look forward to expand upon Labour ' s legacy in Broxtowe , where Labour last make its mark under the tireless effort of Nick Palmer . Nick represent Broxtowe from 1997 to 2010 , bring about reform through many successful Bills . I would like to thank my family for their support and encouragement , particularly my son , my daughter - in - law and my brother . I would also like to thank all the member in Broxtowe who have be a tremendous help to I . to those who have go above and beyond : you know who you be , and I will never forget your kindness and generosity . I begin my career as a civil servant before move into the NHS , where I work my way up to become a senior manager , but it be education that bring I into politic . in 2011 , I set up a not - for - profit organisation that focus on dyslexia , and I sincerely hope that what I advocate for — reform of the teacher training curriculum with regard to SEND provision for dyslexic student — can make it into the education reform soon . I be elect as a councillor in 2018 and my cabinet brief be quite varied . it include public health and wellbeing , equality , refugee , violence against woman and girl , and community safety . I want to be part of the change that this country so desperately need after almost a decade of austerity and decline that hit every single community in this country . Broxtowe be a wonderful , thriving constituency of two half . in the north , I have a particular soft spot for Eastwood , as it border Bilborough , where I be raise . Eastwood , of course , be the birthplace of one of the most popular english novelist of the 20th century , D . h . Lawrence , who show a much more clandestine side of british society . as well as risqu é classic novel , Broxtowe have a beautiful and diverse landscape that host the brilliant Attenborough nature reserve . locate in the southernmost part of the constituency , it span 540 acre of conserve land , wetland , woodland and lake . visitor may spot 250 specie of bird , include several nationally rare specie of heron and rail that have be spot there over the year . Broxtowe be also home to business , from the small and independently run to the headquarters of large international company such as Boots , Worldline and the UK arm of Raleigh . I have have the pleasure of visit Caunton Engineering , a steelwork company with an excellent apprenticeship scheme that offer brilliant opportunity to young professional . Broxtowe also host forever Stars , a baby loss charity that support family who lose their child during pregnancy or shortly after birth . its sensitive and innovative work with hospital be truly inspiring . at the heart of my constituency be Chilwell , home to the impressive Chetwynd barracks , which have resist closure three time in the past 10 year . Chetwynd be home to a reserve training and mobilisation centre that specialise in engineering . my dad be an engineer who receive his training in Nottingham through the Territorial Army , and I be committed to ensure that the voice of our armed force be hear here in Parliament . I stand here today as the young of five child , bear to parent who migrate to the UK from Jamaica in the 1960 . my parent bring I up to believe that I could do anything I want , and that the only barrier in front of I be those that I choose to notice . I take notice of none of they . too often , factor such as class , race , gender and disability can be perceive as hurdle in the pursuit of ambition . they should not be , and I have dedicate much of my career to challenge and advocate for the removal of barrier , so that all have the opportunity to reach their potential . reflect on my journey , I must say that I have thoroughly enjoy my varied career , but today , as I give my maiden speech in this great House as the Member of Parliament for Broxtowe , I think this be my good role yet . I congratulate the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Juliet Campbell ) on her maiden speech and her personal story . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in today ' s Budget debate on fix the NHS and reform public service . however , the truth be that this Budget ' s smash and grab on the UK ' s business mean that the money will not be there to pay for the excellent public service this country require . labour have never understand the concept of private enterprise and business pay for public service , and that it be only with a thriving private sector that the country can have the public service it want and need . make no mistake : this Budget will be catastrophic for the economic health of this country . it be the big tax - raise Budget in british history , and it will turn out to be the long suicide note in Labour ' s political history , too . the Budget be socialism at its bad : high taxis , high spending and massive debt . [ interruption . ] Labour member be laugh , but this be massive debt for future generation . this Budget be anti - business , anti - farmer , anti - aspiration , anti - wealth creation and anti - worker . yes , anti - worker . despite all of labour ' s promise before the general election , the Government be tax worker as they raise national insurance contribution for employer . this beg the question : do the Chancellor and the Prime Minister not know how the economy work ? they certainly do not know how business work . not one of the current bunch of Cabinet Ministers have ever set up a business . no wonder they do not have a clue about national insurance contribution . for clarity , both the independent Office for Budget Responsibility and the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say that 80 % of the employer national insurance rise will be pay for by the worker through low wage and reduce employment level . no wonder Labour Members have now go silent . the Chancellor ' s raid on the unfair tax of all , inheritance tax , will double the number of estate that have to pay it and , disgracefully , will make it virtually impossible for family farmer to pass on their business to the next generation . farmer be most definitely work people , just in case Labour Members do not know . this Budget will be disastrous for our rural area and for the country ' s food security , and all because of good old - fashioned socialist envy . will the right hon . Lady give way ? no , I will carry on , thank you very much . in addition to huge tax rise , this Budget will have an eye - water impact on the country ' s debt . debt interest payment will be more than £ 100 billion a year , every year , and will reach an astonishing £ 120 billion by the end of the decade . to put that into context — rise — I will carry on for a little long . to put that into context , it dwarf the UK ' s annual defence spend , which stand at £ 55 billion . this be money be waste instead of be spend on public service . and if all that be not bad enough , the Office for Budget Responsibility have downgrade its growth forecast to a measly 1 . 5 % for the year run up to the next general election . so much for Labour say this would be a Budget for growth . this Labour Budget have take our country back to the 1970 , with crippling taxation , unsustainable level of borrowing and the trade union in control . the Budget have also break virtually every economic promise Labour make during the election . in fact , even bad than the economic misery this Budget will bring might be the further mistrust in politician it will cause . labour rule out tax hike on work people more than 50 time , and it rule out change the fiscal rule to fiddle the figure . mark my word , on top of the betrayal of pensioner with the scrapping of the winter fuel allowance , this Budget will be a nail in this Government ' s coffin , only four month after they secure a huge majority . at the weekend , the Chancellor eventually come round to admit that Labour will be tax worker , but I be afraid that say it now , have deny it at the general election , do not wash . it be way too late to be admit it . all it have do be expose the fact that this Labour Government be elect on a false premise and therefore do not have a mandate for this Budget . [ laughter . ] laugh after not tell the public what they be go to do be why I certainly will not be support this Budget . I call Lewis Atkinson to make his maiden speech . it be pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Juliet Campbell ) , who speak movingly about her experience in the NHS , as well as the barrier she have ignore and , indeed , knock down . I start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Julie Elliott , who not only work with commitment for Sunderland Central , but provide political leadership and mentorship across the north - east . Julie understand that organise and advocate on a regional basis be often the good way to deliver for our community . I hope to follow her example . it be the honour of my life to be in the House of Commons represent the city by the sea that I love . I be pleased that my first debate contribution be about the budget and the NHS , for what be our purpose here if not to improve the economic condition of our constituent and the care available to those we serve ? health and wealth have always be link — twin asset — as family like mine , forge in the Durham coalfield , know well . my grandparent be only able to toil at the pit , in the munition factory or in the home for as long as they be healthy . working - class community have always fear illness and injury , not just in its own right but because the result inability to work be disastrous for family finance . the introduction of the NHS and national insurance by the Attlee Government be intend to protect against such calamity . we have important work to do to repair and renew those civilising protection today . the link between inequality of health , wealth and power have be impress upon I by the privilege of work for two decade in NHS North East . whether manage dentistry , mental health or cancer service , I see at first hand how the poor generally experience the poor health outcome . I intend to spend some of my time in this place work to right that situation . the quality of innovation and hard work have always be the building block of Sunderland ' s economy . from the introduction of glassmake in Britain at Bede ' s monastery of St Peter ' s , through the education of lightbulb inventor Joseph Swan , to become the UK ' s lead digital smart city , Sunderland have always be a home of innovation . we have always make thing . for 600 year , that mean ship . at our peak , the people of Sunderland be hard at work " macke " a quarter of all ship produce globally each year , and we be likely dub " Mackems " as a result . wealth from shipyard and pit build Sunderland , but such work often cause a thirst , so it be handy that the most popular stout in the country be produce in the centre of town , at the Vaux brewery , until the second world war interrupt production . in that war , as in other before and since , the patriotic people of Sunderland answer their country ' s call . this weekend , I will be honour to play a small part in what be think to be one of the large remembrance service outside London , reflect the high number of veteran in our city and the sacrifice make by so many , include my constituent who serve in Iraq and Afghanistan . while the bravery and fortitude of Sunderland ' s people have never be lack , too often they have face the headwind of economic change without a Government on their side . by the end of my childhood , the pit , the shipyard and even Vaux have all go . but the people ' s spirit and an understate determination remain , and it be thank to they that our city be now on the up . I be not just refer to top - of - the - Championship Sunderland AFC , a football club that have provide I with more agony and ecstasy than even the Labour party have manage . our Stadium of Light stand on the site of the Monkwearmouth colliery , but now instead of coal we produce a rich seam of talented player , such as Jill Scott , Jordan Pickford , Lucy Bronze and Chris Rigg . I also celebrate the worker at the most productive car plant in Europe , Nissan , which although not in my constituency be the modern cornerstone of our city ' s economy , continue our advanced manufacturing heritage and skill . elsewhere around the city , where there be previously decline we now see new beginning . on the bank of the Wear , we no long have shipyard , but we do have the Crown Works studio site , ready to be transform into a landmark film studio . where the brewery once stand , we have crane in the sky for Riverside Sunderland , the most ambitious city centre regeneration project in the UK . we have our excellent university , with particular strength in medium and healthcare , and we have a city that love a good time , where grow hospitality and cultural business provide plenty of decent day and night . it might be a show at the Sunderland Empire , a meal at one of our many excellent british - bangladeshi restaurant , or a gig at one of our independent venue . where passion and identity be strong , there be music — and Sunderland be a music city . have produce talent from Dave Stewart to the go - too - soon Faye Fantarrow , our city ' s artist reflect who we be , honour our proud heritage and point towards our bright future as an inclusive city . nowadays , we celebrate that mackem be find in mosque and church , our community centre , our gurdwara and our social club , and now there be even two Mackems in the Cabinet . all my constituent , no matter what their background , deserve a strong economy and quality public service . because Sunderland be build on hard work , its people rightly expect nothing less from their politician . it be in that spirit that I recognise the privilege of be in the House on behalf of our entire community . I will do what I can to serve they and repay the trust they have place in I . I call Adam Dance to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Juliet Campbell ) and for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) on their fantastic maiden speech . on this of all day , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and your team , as well as all those who make Parliament work for the people and keep we safe . I hope our friend in the United States of America appreciate the task they have before they today , not only for America but for the rest of the world , to provide leadership in promote opportunity and fairness for all , a theme to which I will return . I thank my predecessor , Marcus Fysh , for his nine year of service to our community . while we certainly have our difference , I know we share a deep appreciation for the privilege of represent the place we proudly call home . when I arrive at Parliament , a member of staff greet I with , " you ' re the new Member for Yeovil , aren ' t you ? " . " yes , " I nervously reply , and be promptly tell , " you ' ve get big boot to fill ! " it be a proud moment , and one that I will strive to live up to . my maiden speech would not be complete without acknowledge the influence of one person in particular : the right honourable Paddy Ashdown , who inspire I , and so many other across the country and the world . he , alongside David Laws , encourage I to campaign to save South Petherton youth club when cut threaten to close it . from there , my journey into public service begin , first on the parish council , where I become chair at the age of 20 , follow by the district council then Somerset county council . I say to young people everywhere , " Don ' t let the system put you down . " they should not let anyone tell they that if they have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or dyslexia — I have both — they need to find suitable work , as they will not make anything of their life otherwise . with good teacher — I have several excellent one , include one who be in the Gallery — I have make it up through the political system , to the top representative role for around 100 , 000 people in my constituency . if I can make it , so can everyone else . as lead member for public health , equality and diversity at Somerset council , I campaign for our local health service , fight to resolve the crisis cause by conservative mismanagement . I be glad to see the new Government have use this Budget to begin reinvestment in our NHS , start to reform our national and local health service , which be desperately need , but that be just the tip of the iceberg . the constituency of Yeovil be rich in history and ambition , and comprise the town of Yeovil , Chard , Crewkerne , South Petherton , Ilminster and many surround parish . build on agriculture and the gloving industry , the area have evolve into a hub of engineering excellence , with petter engine , which create Westland and now Leonardo , at its engineering heart . I be pleased to have receive write confirmation from the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry , the right hon . member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) , that Leonardo UK , as the sole remain bidder , will be put forward to the next stage in the procurement process for the New Medium Helicopter . the previous Government delay this project for decade . last month , I have the privilege of open the single site logistic hub in Yeovil , a joint investment of £ 30 million by Kuehne + Nagel and Leonardo with much more to come . government backing for this fantastic product could see export order flow , which this country desperately need . last week , the Chancellor ' s announcement of a £ 1 billion package for Ministry of Defence procurement — some of which be for the south - west — put in place the necessary funding to make that a reality . the yeovil constituency be not just about helicopter . Chard be home to Numatic , the birthplace of Henry — everyone ' s favourite vacuum cleaner — and his friend . John Stringfellow fly the first power aircraft over Chard in 1848 . in 1979 , the Woodscrew Supply Company start in Yeovil , which become Screwfix in 1992 , the year in which I be bear . last Friday , I visit the headquarters of Screwfix , which now have more than 900 store nationally . in 1986 , a Lynx aircraft set a helicopter air - speed record of just over 250 mph , which remain unbeaten today . HMS Victory proudly go into battle with sail make in Crewkerne and rope craft in West Coker . finally , I wish to honour Miss Marion Wright , a less - know daughter of Yeovil , who set sail for a new life in America in 1912 . daughter of Thomas Wright , a farmer , she be car for her three stepsister . on 10 April 1912 , she step aboard the titanic as a second - class passenger . just day early , the great liner have set out on her sea trial , which be design to test the ship ' s capacity in readiness for her journey ahead . those trial confirm her strength , but do not prepare she for the real challenge and unseen danger ahead . the trial could not account for the class disparity aboard , where first - class passenger be guarantee life boat , but those in third class , below deck , fight for survival . Marion Wright be one of the lucky one , survive and make that new life in America . she go on to marry Arthur Woolacott , who be likely to have be a draftsman for Petter engine when he live in the UK . the couple enjoy a long marriage of 53 year , raise three son and welcome eight grandchild . today , the United Kingdom face its own sea trial . the iceberg on the horizon be clear : desperate inequality ; the housing crisis ; and , ironically , climate change . the class disparity , which doom so many on that most famous ship in history , continue to manifest itself in our society today . access to opportunity be still often determined not by talent or hard work , but by wealth and privilege . too many be leave behind , claw for their chance to succeed . our nation be build on a rich history of achievement , resilience , ambition and hope , but , for too many , that be not enough . at the time , the Titanic be a marvel of engineering , the height of ambition , and , as some would say , a ticket to a new life . today , she be a powerful reminder that , if not prepared , even the great and most advanced of idea do not serve the need of the most vulnerable . we must learn the lesson from history . we must unlock the gate of division and ensure that everyone , regardless of their background , have a fair shot at success . failure risk allow our nation to sail blindly towards disaster , miss the repeat warning of inequality and division . we can instead act with the foresight that be lack all those year ago and ensure that our great country , as well as our friend in America today , can chart a course towards opportunity and fairness for all . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be not the time to make a point of order . I call Cat Eccles to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Broxtowe ( Juliet Campbell ) , and for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) , and the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) on their excellent maiden speech ? to be here in this place represent my home town and the community that I hold dear be an honour beyond word . stourbridge have a history of elect female mps and I be proud to be part of this late cohort — we be the large number of woman in Parliament ever . I wish to pay tribute to my predecessor , Suzanne Webb , who represent the constituency from 2019 . she be a vehement supporter of the Justice for Ryan campaign , as be Margot James before she . I will continue to work with the Passey family to get justice for Ryan . I hope that the strict law around knife crime that this Government will introduce will ensure that no family have to go through the same ordeal . before 2010 , Stourbridge be represent by Lynda Waltho and formerly Debra Shipley . they be two fantastic labour woman , who be a great support to I during my campaign . I be Black Country through and through , grow up in Halesowen and later move to Stourbridge . the town itself be first mention in 1255 , name after the bridge that cross over the River Stour . Legend have it that King Charles II hide there from the roundhead after be defeat in Worcester in 1651 . since the 1600 , Stourbridge have give its name to glass production ; the rich local resource of coal and fire - clay make it the perfect location for the industry . this summer , Stourbridge host its last international glass festival , which feature contemporary work by glass maker from all over the world . stourbridge have long produce sporting , musical and artistic talent , from England football star Jude Bellingham , to Ned ' s Atomic Dustbin , Pop will eat itself and Robert Plant . one of my priority during this Parliament be to promote and protect our varied history , heritage , music and art , and I be already work towards keep our own glass festival at home in Stourbridge , and celebrate home - grow music with a local festival . across the constituency , there be a rich industrial history to discover , with the sky once black by day and red by night from the many factory . Wollaston produce the Stourbridge Lion — the first locomotive to run on a commercial line in the USA . Round Oak Steelworks in Brierley Hill provide employment for thousand of local people and be a world centre for iron making during the industrial revolution . Netherton be the home of Hingley and Sons whose most famous product be the anchor of the RMS Titanic . Lye be famous for the manufacture of nail , anvil , crucible and fire brick — the Stourbridge name can still be find embossed in many old brick . link all these place be the many mile of canal waterway . once the highway for transport good , now it be a tranquil place to enjoy a walk in nature . the Black Country be no long the heavy industrial power that it once be , but , with the right investment and opportunity provide by this government , it can thrive once more with modern technology and green industry . in last week ' s Budget , Brierley Hill get a mention , as the Chancellor confirm funding for the stall West Midlands Metro extension . this be welcome news as we work towards a join - up transport system along with West Midlands Mayor , Richard Parker . the constituency be also home to the Stourbridge shuttle — the short railway line in Europe — run between Stourbridge town and stourbridge junction . this be where we can also find our most famous resident , George the station cat ! George be the perfect mascot for the Save the Ticket Office campaign , which I run with a local resident last year . More than 5 , 000 flyer be hand out at the station and Stourbridge have over 3 , 000 signature for the Parliament petition — the high constituency number in the country . I be honour to be here to see the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill go through the House , which will not only improve reliability and efficiency , but protect our precious ticket office . speak of cat , it would be remiss of I not to mention Mimi , Penny and Hugo , who , along with my husband , John , help to keep I sane . I understand the value that a pet can add to our life . I look forward to new animal welfare law and the Renters ' Rights Bill that will allow tenant to keep a pet . I be so proud to be make my maiden speech during this Budget debate on the NHS and public service . I welcome the £ 22 . 6 billion commitment to frontline NHS service to cut down waiting list , invest in cancer treatment , and provide additional funding for social care . I be the very first operating department practitioner in Parliament — a milestone for our under - represent profession . we be train specifically to work in operate theatre across the three key area of the perioperative environment . we can be find pass instrument to the surgeon during an operation or assist the anaesthetist with a patient ' s airway . with more than 15 , 000 register odp in the UK , it be likely that member will have encounter one at some point . my career in the NHS span nearly 20 year . I have see the good of our health service , but , sadly , I have also witness it crumble in front of my eye . the impact of austerity on the NHS be what first politicise I . we see procurement take away from clinical staff , vacancy frozen , pay frozen , senior staff force to reapply for their role , old staff encourage to take voluntary redundancy , and many more layer of middle management introduce , remove a lot of day - to - day decision making from clinician . during the pandemic , I work on the frontline in emergency maternity theatre . the early day of lockdown be chaotic , with official advice change by the day . we be give item that be not fit for purpose , face shield that fall off our face and out - of - date mask . sadly , we lose some colleague along the way , include neonatologist Dr Vishna Rasiah and midwife Salaa Alam . I hope that the contribution of odp during the pandemic will be recognise . so many step up and fulfil role in intensive therapy unit , ward and emergency department — a true demonstration of the flexibility and skill of our profession . I be pleased that the Government be appoint a covid corruption commissioner to investigate fully fraud , error and underperform contract during the pandemic and to ensure that the country be fully prepare in the future . it be also an honour to be in this place as the covid inquiry be publish , so that I can speak up for all the NHS staff whose voice be not hear . despite the difficulty at work , I be grateful to be able to maintain my daily routine , unlike so many who be force to stay at home . when I be not on a shift , I be help to run the Stourbridge covid support group , with over 100 volunteer who help more than 200 shielding resident with shopping , prescription and friendly phone call . we make over 10 , 000 face shield for care home without PPE and raise over £ 8 , 000 for our local food bank . we provide Christmas food box for family receive free school meal . the community really pull together during this difficult time and many of our volunteer be still in touch with their client . when war break out in Ukraine in February 2022 , the community rally again to help those less fortunate than ourselves . large shipment of clothe , toy and sanitary product be transport to the ukrainian border . I recently have the opportunity to visit Ukraine and see for myself what people there be deal with . there be much to be do to ensure victory in Ukraine and I hope to play some small part in that . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to provide unwavere support to Ukraine and to combat russian aggression . as we see global conflict heighten , I hope for peace everywhere and that the Government , along with world leader , can influence change to keep everyone safe . I look forward to work with all colleague in this House to bring about much need change — not just for Stourbridge , but for our entire country and the wide world . rise — Order . I propose to put a four - minute time limit on contribution after the next speaker . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , who give a very full description of the constituency that she be privileged to represent . her predecessor , Suzanne Webb , be a great friend of mine . the hon . Lady have take over from a fine individual , who be now contribute in many other way to our national life . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) , who have the great good fortune of represent my godson , a farmer in his constituency , who will no doubt be contact the hon . Gentleman shortly about some of the issue that have arise in recent day . I myself want to speak about those issue . today , we be rightly speak about public service — the NHS , on which we all rely , and those important element in our life that keep we together , underpin our economy and really hold we strong . but we be not just speak about the product , the outcome — the output of those doctor , that money or those service . we be also speak about the input , because we simply can not have the one without the other . that be what I want to address . what we have see in this Budget be not just the large tax rise in decade , the high tax take since the war and great indebtedness , effectively burden our child with what we be spend today . when it come to the fundamental challenge , the Budget be fail to understand how an economy work and why the relationship between generation matter so much . the story that the Budget tell be about a Government who do not understand what a family , generation or business be and do not understand why business invest today need the ability to plan long - term and not just be tax halfway through . the point be see most obviously in the tax on farming and on the inheritability of farming property . the truth be that farm be unlike many business ; they can not simply be salami - slice in the hope that they will survive . that just do not work . individual end up be force to decide not just to pay the 20 % that the Government ask for but to sell the 100 % to liquidate the asset require . that be inject a dangerous short - termism into the economy . the truth be that the Government can really only do two thing . the first , really important thing be to keep we safe . we all know that the first job of government be national defence and national security . but the second thing , often overlook , be the ability to extend time horizon . it be very difficult for individual to have time horizon beyond a certain point . in early human existence , the horizon be a harvest or a season ; in the Anglo - Saxon period , people may have get it to a generation or possibly even a reign . but the genius of the industrial age and our democratic age have be to extend that time horizon over generation . we have do that through the rule of law and through understand taxation and the predictability of an economy . we have do it because we have understand that if parent invest , child , grandchild and great - grandchild can reap the reward . what the Government have do , I be afraid , be to reverse that . they have shorten the time horizon and assume that people — all our citizen — be not investor in the future , but employee of today . that fundamental misunderstanding of what it be to grow an economy be why this budget be so bad . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? as the hon . Gentleman be an old friend , I will — for one minute . I thank the right hon . gentleman on the Tory Benches , which be singularly understaffed right now . but it be the almost criminal level of understaffe in our NHS that affect most of our constituent . he be an honourable gentleman , so do he not feel a sense of shame that , every single day in our NHS , midwife , doctor and nurse can not fill their staff rota ? they can not do the job that they want to do and that we need they to do . it be a pleasure to hear the hon . Gentleman , who have come off the fence and now have a seat ; he can express his view freely . what fill I with sorrow be when I look at the future — when I look at the business that have invest so hard in place such as Tonbridge and now can not pass that on over generation and over time . the investment timeline be be reduce and so be the growth . do not just take my word for it — the Office for Budget Responsibility , the National Farmers Union and every business in this country have be clear on the point . the Government be not just take the egg from the golden goose ; they be slaughter the goose by try to get the egg out quick . that simply do not work . we all know what be go to happen next : the Government be go to have to come back for more . we just need to look at the prediction by various financial body over the last few day , which have be talk about our run out of the money raise in the Budget in the next two or three year . we know why that be go to happen . this Budget be not invest — bad than that , it be not encourage investing . it be try to exploit . as a member of the Government at the time of the disastrous mini - Budget , do the right hon . Gentleman seriously expect we to take lesson from he on how we grow the economy , return to economic stability and get the desperately need investment into our public service that his Government fail to deliver for the past 14 year ? the hon . Lady can play politic if she like ; I be try to think about the future of the country . Dyson , who be not in any government , be point out the problem be raise . Minette Batters , who be not in any government , be point out the problem be raise . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no , not just now . the truth be that what we be see be a level of short - termism . that be completely clear in agriculture and industry , but the tragedy be that it be also clear in education . a great privilege of be the MP for Tonbridge be that I represent some of the fine school in this country — other may claim that title , but I know that I speak the truth when I say that . many of those school be grant - maintain in different way ; other be private . they be , in many way , a web of education that work extremely well together in our community . some , such as Hillview School for girl — a fantastic school at which I be privileged to be on the governing board — be state school , while other , such as the Judd school , be grammar school , and one , Tonbridge school , be private . the truth be that the 20 % plus business rate — I think the extra cost that will now fall on private school come to about 40 % — mean that every single kid in my constituency will have to pay for the vat in some way . either they will have to pay for it because fee go up , or they will pay for it because class size be large . I be afraid that the school will not be able to swallow the cost , so we will see pressure all the way through . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because I have be ask to be quick . that be not just a burden on those kid , but a rejection of the relationship between family member in their willingness and desire to invest in the future . I know that the Labour Government claim that the only way for investment to be do be by the state , that the only thing that really matter be when that be do by a bureaucrat and a civil servant , that the only thing that really count be when the Government pay for it . but we know that be simply not true . we know that business and the freedom to invest , plan and forecast be what make an economy grow . sadly , the Government have try to nationalise the future , shorten the time horizon and make we all pay for it . that be why growth be fall , taxis be rise and the future be make bad again and again under Labour . I congratulate all hon . member make their maiden speech today , especially my regional colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) . I be proud that , while make history as the first ever woman to deliver a Budget , our Chancellor honour a true hero of my constituency : Jarrow ' s " Red Ellen " Wilkinson . Ellen be a remarkable politician and trailblazer for woman everywhere . it be about time that we have some recognition of woman in this place , and I be pleased that the Chancellor have make a start on the artwork , with the fabulous picture of Ellen on the wall in 11 Downing Street . we need many more picture of woman trailblazer across Parliament . the Budget show that we be a Government who will work for the people . there be a lot to celebrate , include the large ever increase in carer ' s allowance , close inheritance tax loophole , additional funding for further education , increase the national minimum wage , invest in breakfast club , record investment in the NHS , ensure that former mineworker get the money that be keep from their pension , which be hugely important to my constituent , and set aside funding for the contaminated blood scandal , as well as for the victim of the Horizon scandal , for which I have long campaign with my constituent Chris Head . I will continue to push for people to be hold to account for their role in the Horizon scandal , and for a speedy resolution so that outstanding claim be pay in full . nothing should stand in the way of victim finally get justice . they should not have be leave wait decade by the Conservatives . someone might think from the contribution of Conservative Members that the last 14 year have never happen , but our public service be at the point of collapse , no youth centre be leave , school building be crumble , the NHS be in crisis and the economy be crash because of the Conservatives ' gross incompetence and deliberate mismanagement , as they put their crony over the people of this country . finally , we can move on from 14 year of conservative destruction of our community . in this Budget , the poor household gain the most and the wealthy pay the most . that show the difference that a Labour Government can and will make . of course , I wish we could have do much more . I wish the Budget have be able to lift the two - child benefit cap . I wish we have be able to right the injustice for woman from the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign . I wish we could have increase the pension credit threshold . I wish we could have invest more in our local authority . however , let we be very clear : the fact that we can not do any of that be entirely down to the conservative party . as chair of the north - east all - party parliamentary group , I know that transport be one of our most important challenge , alongside employment opportunity and investment . although I will celebrate the clear win , I will continue to work with Government Front Benchers to ask for more investment to improve the life of people in the north - east , particularly my Jarrow and Gateshead East constituent . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Jarrow and Gateshead East ( Kate Osborne ) . in reflect on the maiden speech that we have hear this afternoon , I will just add a comment to what the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) say in his titanic analogy . as the Member of Parliament for Belfast East , I always remind folk that Titanic be build by Ulstermen but navigate by Englishmen . I wish he well . I delay my contribution to the debate until today in the hope that we might have reach the point where there would perhaps be less politic and a bit more accurate reflection on the challenge we face as a country and on how to proceed . I be pleased that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be here , because he be a man of substance and he understand the challenge that we all face . one of the most accurate description of the Budget so far have be the " sugar rush " : something that will make we feel good immediately — an initial injection of cash into public service over the come year — but which then peter out . the benefit of that sugar rush peter out , we hit a low and crave more in year 3 and 4 , but , without sufficient growth , the mean will not be there to pay for it . I say that not with any glee , but as a genuine challenge on how we invest in public service — rightly — in a way that will produce private growth , because it will be that private growth that allow investment in the year to come . from a Northern Ireland perspective , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury will know that there have be no resolution to get our finance on to a firm foundation . " fix the foundation " be what we hear from the Government . the negotiation that we have with the previous Government see a considerable injection of cash . the debate today be about health . on pay parity , NHS worker in Northern Ireland — the nurse , doctor and auxiliary staff — and the carer outside in the social care setting , be not pay like for like compare with their colleague in England , Scotland and Wales . we obtain money to achieve pay parity just one year ago , yet it be in danger of be break . we secure money for Northern Ireland to achieve stability under the previous Government , but be tell to use it for year 2 and 3 to maintain parity for such important worker . that do not work , and I have hope for more from the Labour Government . I hope that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury will continue to engage in those discussion . some political decision feel right when they be take but will not be easily forget by a jade electorate . the removal of the winter fuel payment be one of they ; the decision on inheritance tax for family farm be another . those decision will rest long in the mind of constituent who place their trust in the Government . Labour Members have joyfully repeat all their party ' s enthusiastic line , but those constituent will not forget the damage and the pain cause by the decision associate with this Budget . Madam Deputy Speaker , I have hope for more . I can not be churlish and not recognise the investment in public finance that be in the Budget , but it be not go to encourage we along a positive path . there be challenge ahead , and politically and collectively — irrespective of our party outlook or difference — we be go to have to engage with those challenge more thoughtfully in the future . this Budget provide absolute clarity that the Government be focus on put work people back at the heart of economic decision making . this be most evident in the Chancellor ' s decision to protect and support public service , enable the Government to kick - start a mission - lead approach to reform . let we be frank : this Government have inherit public service that be fall apart at the seam , and we know that our constituent deserve well . I commend the Chancellor and Treasury Ministers for take the difficult decision that will raise £ 9 billion per year by the end of the forecast to support public service . the tax decision that have be take be difficult , but I thank Ministers for be transparent , as restore economic stability to put the country back on a trajectory of growth be essential . it be important to highlight that invest money in our valuable public service be also about secure growth in the long term , as my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have remark . enable a worker to get a quick gp appointment so that they can return to work soon , or support a parent who want to take a job that start an hour early by give they access to a breakfast club before school , support growth . in my constituency of Hyndburn alone , the impact of the past 14 year of economic failure be that over 7 , 000 child be live in family that face absolute poverty . investment in people and public service have real economic payback , as well as be the right thing to do . member on the notably empty conservative Benches refuse to say what choice they would make differently . would they choose to not invest in public service , to not lift child out of poverty , or to not get the public finance back on a firm footing ? the increase in the national minimum wage be also welcome by many of my constituent in Hyndburn and Haslingden , who work tirelessly to support their family and the local community in skilled but often undervalue job , whether in retail , in hospitality or in care . currently in my constituency , though , we be face entrenched problem due to a lack of investment in our public service . Most obviously , we face the closure of our highly value Accrington Victoria hospital due to the fact that the building be now entirely unsafe for both patient and staff . neglect public service lead to real consequence , and my constituent have be leave to pay the price for the Conservatives ' dereliction of their duty to manage health service sustainably . I therefore particularly welcome the Government ' s announcement of a £ 1 billion investment to reduce the backlog of critical NHS maintenance . if that money have be available previously , and if maintain NHS facility at a local level have be a priority for the former Government , we might not have end up in this unforgiveable situation . be the Minister able to share any further information on that funding , and will he or a member of the Health team meet I to discuss how we can work to ensure that Accrington ' s health service be both retain locally and align with this Government ' s national strategy for community - base provision ? I start by recognise that this Government face an enormous challenge in clear up the mess of a decade of conservative mismanagement in this country , and that failure be nowhere more apparent than in our NHS and care sector . every day , thousand of patient across the country face agonisingly long wait , often in severe pain , just to see a gp or get an appointment with a dentist . yesterday , I meet a constituent whose 45 - year - old husband — a well - love , energetic and creative man — never regain consciousness after be leave in the A & E waiting room of my local hospital for six hour after suffer a brain haemorrhage . James Palmer - Bullock leave behind three wonderful child , a love wife and a devastated community . his wife ' s request to I be to ensure that no family ever suffer the same neglect again . I hope the Secretary of State will meet I to discuss the experience that my constituent face and what can be do to prevent it in future . new funding for day - to - day spend in the NHS be welcome across this House , and it be desperately need if we be ever to address the crisis in the NHS . however , there be no point in pour money into a leaky bucket if that money do not get where it need to go . it be not just public service that we need to focus on : the third sector provide vital service that many of our constituent rely on , particularly child ' s hospice . I would like to highlight to the House the Acorns child ' s hospice in my constituency , which provide vital support to many local family in a really acute moment of need . in 2019 , NHS England decide to increase the child ' s hospice grant — order . that intervention be far too long . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . he will be pleased to know that I be go to mention hospice later in my speech . to fix the NHS , we must fix both the front and the back door . take the pressure off secondary care can only be achieve by properly fund primary care . that be why the decision to increase employer ' s national insurance contribution be a significant mistake , as it risk worsen the crisis in the NHS and care sector . increase that rate will drive up gp surgery cost , significantly raise the annual expense of GP practice . those practice be not eligible for the employment allowance that protect our small employer , so surgery in Chichester and across the country will bear the full weight of that rise — a burden that they and my constituent simply can not afford . surgery such as southbourne surgery , Langley House surgery and Selsey medical practice have already reach out to I with concern about their ability to continue provide service amid those financial challenge . they all agree that this increase will directly undermine patient access and care . charity have long suffer the burden of fail statutory service . Chichester boast some of the most amazing charitable organisation , and one of the great pleasure of my role be to spend time with the people at the heart of those organisation . charity such as Stonepillow , which work to prevent homelessness in our area , face an increase in cost of £ 125 , 000 . I also visit St Wilfrid ' s hospice after the Budget announcement — an incredible hospice that provide palliative care for hundred of people every year , both in the hospice and in the community . it now face an increase bill of £ 175 , 000 — money that it need to find annually , with only 17 % of its annual budget cover by the NHS . I urge the Government to consider exempt the health and social care sector from the national insurance rise , so that the Treasury be not give with one hand and take with the other . I would like to start by say how happy I be , after 14 year in this place , to finally be respond to a Budget from a Labour Chancellor . that that Labour Chancellor be also the first woman to hold the position be a source of tremendous pride to I , and to many of we on the Labour Benches . this be a Budget that will begin the long task of national repair and renewal after 14 year of steady decline . if anyone be leave in any doubt about whether the conservative party might have some useful insight to offer , this debate should have end that misconception once and for all . first , we have the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , who be the Conservatives ' Minister for common sense — no wonder they lose . then we have the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , who they get rid of because he be not right - wing enough . we know that the conservative party will not be able to help we , so we must crack on alone , and the truth be that we have a huge amount of work to do . the right hon . member for Tonbridge do say one thing that I agree with : that in order to get growth , we need private sector investment . of course we do — prior to come into this place , I run my own business , and this whole Budget be predicate on get growth and work with the private sector to do so . all our plan for energy development require consistency so that the private sector can invest . nobody dispute that , but what we also need be public service that work . as someone who have employ people for most of the last 25 year or so , I know that you do not get a good workforce if your staff be live in poverty . it be not progressive politic to say that we be support people to be in work if they have to visit the food bank on the way home . we need an economy that work for everyone , and this Budget strike the right tone . we have a proud history of coalmine in Chesterfield , and its legacy can be find to this day . I be very pleased that my right hon . friend the Chancellor have end the historic injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , with more than £ 1 billion be return to 112 , 000 former coalminer — the right decision . I be sad to say that I have the dubious honour of represent a constituency that , under the Conservative county council , be dub the pothole capital of the UK . we be very glad in Derbyshire that the Government will put in an extra £ 500 million to tackle the scourge of pothole , and I hope that Derbyshire county council will now start fill in Chesterfield ' s countless pothole . the increase in the national minimum wage , or living wage , be another policy that will support economic growth . if we give money to people who have nothing , they will spend it in our economy . if huge inheritance be pass on , as the Conservatives want , that money be not spend in the same way in the economy . there be issue for some family farm , and those need to be explore , but the vast majority of farmer will not be affect . conservative Members mention James Dyson , who be a brilliant inventor , but why do he suddenly find such attraction in buy up huge amount of farmland ? they should pull the other one . the Budget make a start in get our country back on the road to growth , repair the appalling damage that have be do to our national health service , support the army of carer who also support our NHS and , finally , ensure that at the very bottom of our economy we start to make work pay . like the proverbial curate ' s egg , the Budget have its good part , but significant issue remain . while I appreciate the additional funding for police in Northern Ireland , it must be emphasise that that do not resolve the structural underfunding of the Police Service of Northern Ireland that have persist since 2010 , nor do it alleviate the problem of recruitment , which have reach crisis point . I warmly welcome the £ 1 . 5 billion allocate to Northern Ireland , but it be essential that that funding be utilise prudently and effectively by the Northern Ireland Executive . it be unacceptable that we face the high waiting list for healthcare service in the United Kingdom . because of time constraint , I shall concentrate on three critical area : gp practice , inheritance tax for farmer and the winter fuel payment for pensioner . GP practice be struggle . where will they find the fund to cover the increase national insurance contribution for employer ? they be not eligible for the employment allowance , and it be unacceptable to take resource away from patient care . the Chancellor must be aware of the late research from the Library that show that more than 5 million people in a survey — about a quarter — can not get through to their gps . the additional burden will add further financial pain to a broken service . the propose change to inheritance tax will severely impact farmer , with estimate suggest that more than 70 % of farmer will be affect . that contradict the Government ' s projection and put the future of farming in jeopardy . I urge the Chancellor to heed the concern of the Ulster Farmers Union and the National Farmers Union . our food security be dwindle , currently stand at 62 % . we can not afford industrial action from our farming community , who be already face a financial crisis . farming must be make viable . while additional funding be hope for to support pensioner ' winter fuel payment , the Chancellor have fail to deliver . we now face the grim reality of pensioner , many of whom just exceed the pension credit limit , be leave in the cold , despite have work all their life . that be plainly wrong and it be why I will not support the Budget . in vote against it , I want to make it clear to the Chancellor that the situation for pensioner , business and farmer be not just bad in part ; it be downright rotten . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have be sit here gobsmacke by Conservative Members ' lack of comprehension of what have happen over the last 14 year to our public service . I see that the priority of the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) be quote billionaire who be worried about pay a bit more tax . those be the Conservatives ' priority . last month , I hold a constituency surgery in one of my large village , and people tell I about the difficulty they have get appointment there . when people have to travel between village , and there be one bus an hour at most , it really make a difference where an appointment be . the lack of home village appointment leave my constituent at risk of their condition worsen , and go against everything that we know to be good for patient and the NHS — early help , at the right place and at the right time . down in Morecambe and Heysham , even though transport be a bit well , get an appointment can feel like a lottery , because service be have to triage patient to find which case be the most urgent . our resident be travel too far , wait too long and get more poorly as they wait . last week ' s Budget give I hope , not only that the NHS will get the investment it need , but that finally the people in charge have the integrity and the skill to dig we out of the mess ; they be unafraid of listen to expert , unafraid of make long - term decision and unafraid to stand up for patient — the people who matter . the Budget also show we that the Government will invest wisely in the NHS . some people say , " you can ' t just throw money at it , " and they be right — look at what happen with the investment from the last government : nothing . that be because the people in charge be fundamentally unable to organise , at either a strategic or practical level . they be unable to join the dot . local safety initiative , while very welcome , be bring in to try to tackle what be fundamentally national issue . those issue include the vacancy rate , the sickness rate , and the increase complexity of patient ' issue , cause by our be a nation in poor health as a direct result of austerity . so no , it be not just a case of more money , but sometimes it be about money . money invest wisely can make a difference . if creak digital infrastructure mean that medic spend more time reboot computer than treat patient , investment be need , and that be what the Budget provide . the Budget also fulfil our commitment to access the late diagnostic and treatment . through my health scrutiny role in Lancashire , I know that thrombectomy , a life and brain save treatment suitable for about 10 % of people who have stroke , be not available 24 / 7 in all area . when I be scrutinise that care pathway , people need to be lucky enough to have a stroke on a weekday morning to get a thrombectomy . in February 2022 , my grandma have a devastating stroke on a Friday night , and I sit with the knowledge that she would not have access to that treatment , even if she could benefit from it . I can not describe the pain that cause I , and it be pain that my constituent and people across the country feel every day . we have a health system that have be systematically undermine for 14 year . a recent national report show that few than half of the people who could benefit from a thrombectomy get one , and that be not good enough . I be surprised to be call so quickly , so thank you , Madam Chair . I be really pleased by the statement that the Secretary of State be look at how to compensate those in the health and social care sector for national insurance rise . I have in my constituency Central Surrey Health , a not - for - profit , employee - own group . it serve much of Surrey , and it stand to lose £ 500 , 000 as a result of the propose change . it deliver community service across Woking and Surrey , include most of the service in my constituency . it would be awful if we lose service as a result of measure introduce by the Government in a Budget that be suppose to invest in the NHS . I welcome the Government ' s investment in the NHS , but they must not make the mistake of increase national insurance on social care firm , health partner and GPs . I be concern about the elephant in the room : social care . local authority and our health system be really struggle , but social care help to fix thing . it be a more efficient use of our money to invest in social care and prevention than spend on primary care in hospital . the Government be rightly invest in the NHS , but they have fail to invest in our social care system . Surrey county council be under huge pressure , and Woking borough council have effectively go bankrupt . it be report that without further support , almost 50 % of local authority could go under . if the government do not invest in social care , I fear that they will make the mistake that the Conservatives make , which we do not want . we need to invest in social care , so I hope that the Government will agree to a cross - party social care agreement that tackle those issue . I want to touch on the cost of living . the Government have to turn around an awful record from the previous Government . they have introduce some good measure and have suggest that they would increase the tax threshold — something for which we have long campaign — but I be concern about the national insurance rise , which will hit small business hard . I meet many small business this morning in Woking , and they be really concerned about the impact of those rise . I like the rhetoric from the Prime Minister and the Government about this be a Government of service , and a Government who want to promote growth . they be use the correct wording , but good rhetoric need to be follow up with good announcement . the Government say that they be go for growth , but their action do not support that . they be ignore Brexit , they be ignore social care , which undermine our local authority , and they be undermine small business . the Budget be well than the Budgets of the previous Government , but that be nothing to shout about . it should be a lot well for my constituent in Woking , and for constituent of member across the House . there will be a reduction in the time limit to three minute after the next speaker . a note : when I be in the Chair in the Chamber , I be Madam Deputy Speaker , not Madam Chair ; that be for Westminster Hall , or when the Chamber be in Committee . I call Richard Burgon . the Budget be a welcome break from more than a decade of austerity , and especially from the Tories ' slash - and - burn plan announce at their last Budget , which would have mean even more deep cut . it be good to see public investment be emphasise , as that be key not only to rebuild our public service but to drive growth and well living standard . likewise , the boost in day - to - day spending for public service over the next couple of year be welcome — for example , we be fund 40 , 000 extra NHS appointment a week and recruit 6 , 500 new teacher . have campaign against poverty pay for many year , I welcome the boost in the minimum wage , although there be more to be do . the Budget include positive measure for those like I who want the wealthy and tax dodger to be make to pay their fair share . that be why we have hear so much squealing from the Tories and the right - wing press in recent day . it seem that defend the super - rich be the main reason why they get out of bed in the morning . progressive taxis , achieve by end the non - dom scheme — why on earth would they have a problem with that ? — have high capital gain taxis , and extend the windfall tax on oil and gas profit , be what we need to fund our service . we need more of that , because public service need more funding . the increase announce in the Budget , after the initial boost over the next couple of year , will not be enough to repair the damage do by a decade of Tory cut . the Government should grasp the nettle and introduce a series of wealth taxis , start with a 2 % tax on wealth above £ 10 million , which would raise billion more for our public service . I would have like the Budget to do more on tackle poverty . I be concerned that real - term cut to benefit next year appear to be plan . that must not happen , and disabled people must not be subject to more cut and attack . the two - child limit need to go , fast . a Labour Government should eradicate child poverty , not allow more child to fall into poverty . the last Labour Government lift many child out of poverty , and that be what we want to see again . the winter fuel allowance cut should be reverse . that cut make no sense morally , politically or even economically , and it be not too late to think again and scrap it . the Budget be a welcome break from a decade of austerity . it contain progressive tax measure , but more need to be do now and go forward on poverty reduction . it be put together follow the toxic inheritance from the Conservatives . it would be good to see more than a handful of Members on the Opposition Benches . who know ? they might be able to learn something . there be two key point that stick out in the Budget . the first have be reference by colleague from across the House , and it be the elephant in the room to which Liberal Democrats keep refer : social care . member have eloquently make the point that if we do not fix social care , we will not fix the NHS . a personal experience of mine be a great example . a couple of year ago , my grandfather sadly pass away . he spend the last six month of his life bed block in hospital , repeatedly get covid and pneumonia because he could not leave hospital and go home . I do not blame the NHS for his passing , but if he have be well care for with an adult social care package at home , there might have be a different outcome . the problem with the Budget be that while there be a token gesture for local government , what be provide be nowhere near enough to fix the gap in adult social care . the House be full of member who have work in local government and serve as councillor , and who understand that often more than half a budget go on adult social care . the problem will not be fix by our tinker around the edge ; we need a lot more to support social care and the NHS . I be worried about unintended consequence . a couple of week ago , I meet a constituent who be work in the NHS . she be a single parent , and her daughter have SEND issue . because local authority school in the area could not meet her need , she pay for her daughter to go to an independent , fee - pay school where she could get the support that she need , but because of the introduction of vat on school fee , my constituent will have to consider leave the NHS and work in the private sector , so that she can afford to keep her daughter in that school and meet her need . I be worried about the wide ramification of some of the Government ' s decision . in this case , healthcare staff would be take out of the NHS because of Budget measure . I hope the Government will reflect on that , and consider what more can be do to ensure that we support NHS staff in their current role , whether that be give they more pay rise or more support in the workplace , or by ensure that someone do not have to leave their NHS role in order to afford to keep the provision of their daughter ' s SEND need and capability . early the Secretary of State make a point about prevention . local authority often provide that first line of public health prevention , but the money that underpin that be just not enough . we know that every pound spend save countless more for the NHS , so I urge the Secretary of State to take a strong approach to prevention and invest in community pharmacy . the Chancellor ' s announcement of a £ 22 . 6 billion increase in the day - to - day health budget , and a £ 3 . 1 billion rise in the capital budget over this year and next , mark a pivotal moment for our national health service . that substantial investment underscore our Government ' s unwavere commitment to enhance healthcare service and ensure the wellbeing of every citizen . one of the most pressing issue we face be the backlog of elective surgery and appointment , and with waiting list currently at 7 . 6 million , that additional funding will enable we to deliver 40 , 000 extra operation and acute sector appointment each week . but this be not just about number ; this be about reduce the anxiety and suffering of million who have be wait for essential medical procedure . they be badly let down by the last government , but by address those delay we be take a significant step towards restore public confidence in our healthcare system . the Budget also allocate £ 1 . 5 billion for new surgical hub , scanner and additional bed , which be crucial to expand treatment capacity , particularly in emergency department . as a survivor of cancer , I be pleased that cancer treatment — a critical area of concern — will see significant improvement . the allocation of £ 70 million for new radiotherapy machine will enhance our ability to treat cancer much more effectively . that funding be testament to our commitment to fight that devastating disease , and support those affect by it . mental health , which be often overlook , receive a much - need £ 26 million boost , dedicate to open new mental health crisis centre . those centre will provide critical support to individual who be experience mental health issue , ensure that they receive the care and attention that they need promptly . the Budget also include a dedicated fund to upgrade around 200 GP surgery . by strengthen primary care we can prevent minor health issue from escalate into major problem , ultimately reduce the burden on our hospital . finally , the Budget represent a comprehensive , forward - think approach to healthcare . it address immediate need , while lay the foundation for a more resilient and efficient health system . Labour Members campaign loud and clear at the general election for change , and that be what the Budget have deliver . it be important that we recognise how the previous Conservative Government leave the NHS in a weakened state , with soar GP waiting time , crumble hospital building , and promise of new hospital that they simply could not deliver . the Liberal Democrats welcome the £ 22 . 6 billion of funding for the NHS , and the £ 3 . 1 billion of capital funding for the NHS estate . however , far too many people be struggle to get a GP appointment when they need one , which can lead to misdiagnosis or delay , with people often have to go to A & E instead . it be great that the Budget include dedicated funding to improve gp practice , but more focus be need on the recruitment and training of GPs , and on ensure that we retain experienced GPs . it be therefore disappointing that GP surgery be not exempt from the rise in employer ' s national insurance , as that will ultimately reduce the number of staff they can employ , which will affect everyone . we need to prioritise general practice so that more people can be treat in the community , as that be well for individual health and will cost the NHS less . we believe that everyone should have the right to see a gp within seven day . I be also disappointed that there be no specific mention of dentistry in the Budget . Tooth decay be one of the most common reason for hospital admission in child age between six and 10 , and more than 100 , 000 child have be admit to hospital with rot tooth since 2018 . More funding be need to guarantee access to an NHS dentist for everyone need urgent and emergency care . on the new hospital programme , hopefully one of the new hospital will at some point be build in our constituency , but I be disappoint not to hear more about that . it be good that hospital with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete will be address urgently , but we desperately need more detail on that now . building such as St Helier hospital be simply deteriorate , with issue such as sink foundation , leak roof , and outdated infrastructure . Epsom hospital can no long cope with current demand , and we urgently need a new specialist emergency care hospital . my constituent simply can not wait any long for their promise new hospital , and the country should not be force to fund inefficient health provision . I look forward to hear from the Secretary of State in the new year with more information about that . many constituent who be just above the threshold for pension credit have contact I about how the lack of the winter fuel payment will affect they . it will particularly affect those in ill health , because they need to turn on the heating early and for long . while pensioner have be ask to apply for pension credit , Dorah - May from Age Concern in my constituency have contact I . she say that apply for pension credit be a minefield , and that be why people from Age Concern go around all the time to help and support elderly people with that . charity and small business will also be negatively affect by the Budget , and that be disappointing . I will wrap up by urge the Government to look at raise money by reverse the conservative tax cut for big bank and by ask social medium giant to pay their fair share . this Budget will improve the life of so many of my constituent in Rochester and Strood . they will see the benefit in their wage slip , see the thing they care most about in their community , such as the local pub and their high street , support , and see their public service finally invest in again . investment in the NHS through this Budget be key . it be the no . 1 issue raise on the doorstep in the election and be perhaps well exemplified by the struggle to book a GP appointment . the simple of task — for someone to seek help from a medical professional when they be ill — be make into what feel like an impossible task after 14 year of conservative government . I remind voter many time during the election that the NHS be always safe in Labour ' s hand , so I be delighted to see that our first Budget set we up to meet that promise so quickly . as other have mention , we have a record - break £ 22 billion increase in day - to - day spending , a £ 3 . 1 billion capital boost to pay for new technology and improve our building , and a landmark public consultation to set out a long - term plan for how the NHS develop over the next decade . I be proud that we be a Government who have be transparent and honest with people about our priority to fund that investment . the Chancellor have deliver a Budget that protect work people and instead ask big business and the well off to contribute . the Budget do not dodge the tough choice just to get through the next media cycle , but instead be inform by Lord Darzi ' s thorough point - in - time assessment of the state of the NHS that be hand back to we by the Conservatives . it lay the foundation to take the NHS from the analogue to digital , from hospital to community - lead care and from treat sickness to focus on prevention and promote good health . those approach will take different form across the country , but I draw the Minister ' s attention to the potential for an elective care centre in the former Debenhams store on Chatham High Street in my constituency . I have write to the Secretary of State about this proposal , and I would welcome a conversation about its merit , particularly as it be a good example of the invest - to - save model that be promote so well in the Budget . it would not only free up space at the Medway Maritime hospital and help tackle waiting list , but would have further benefit by support town centre economic regeneration . I welcome provision in the Budget for a £ 600 million increase in local government spending to support social care . like many mp , I have a background in local government and I understand all too well how much the uplift be need . will the hon . Lady give way ? I have only 20 second leave , so apology , but I will not . we all know that the social care sector need to be transform , and I hope that over time we can move to a more fully integrate health and social care system in this country . Future Budgets may be able to apply the same exemption to charitable care home as happen for the NHS . that would be to the benefit of place such as Frindsbury House in my constituency , which be run with great care and compassion by the Mortimer Society . I have three minute and three quick point , on which I hope I have the attention of the Chief Secretary to the Treasury . my first point relate to the NHS . I welcome the introduction to the debate by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care today . certainly the Government have inherit the bad crisis in NHS history , and they have a massive challenge on their hand . I like how the 10 - year plan have be frame in relation to move from hospital to home , from sickness to prevention and so on . the Prime Minister be right when he say that those with the broad shoulder should bear the great burden , but the way this Government be raise tax through national insurance be , I be afraid , hit some of those who will be struggle most . I hope that he will look again at that and how the Liberal Democrats have frame it . we propose to raise the money by reverse the tax cut for big bank and increase taxis on the oil and energy giant and large social medium multinational . surely that would be a far well way . in respond to question on the impact of the national insurance rise on GPs , hospice and care provider , the Secretary of State clearly recognise that a mistake be make , and I suspect that the impact be overlook . [ interruption . ] the Chief Secretary be shake his head , but he really need to address those issue , because a crisis will continue to occur . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will , although the right hon . Gentleman have only just walk into the Chamber , so I think it be rather cheeky of he . Cheekiness accept . the hon . Gentleman be quite right that the £ 600 million extra be for both child and adult social care , whereas adult social care alone be expect to have a £ 2 . 4 billion hit , so do he agree that if the NHS , however well fund , can not move its patient into social care , that investment and expenditure will not work ? I do , although that be rather rich of the right hon . Gentleman when he know that he and his party leave the country in this state . another issue be the housing emergency , which we have not debate much today . I welcome the additional £ 500 million that the Government announce , which will supplement the affordable home programme to 2026 . that be much need . I hope that the Chief Secretary will also address the large number of shovel - ready project that have plan permission and pre - development work in place . I must declare an interest as a former chief executive of a registered provider . I hope that the Government will look at the impact of the significant construction inflation we have see over the last four year , which be hold up many development that could be address housing need in our community . only 9 , 500 social home be build last year . we need a great deal more if we be to address the serious housing emergency . I have a final question for the Chief Secretary — if I may have his attention for a moment — about the announcement of two layer of business rating that will apply to the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . many holiday home owner have manage to abuse the system by use small business rate relief . I hope that such second homeowner will not have further opportunity to take advantage of loophole . will he investigate that and ensure that money go into first home rather than second home ? I be afraid that there be a loophole in the system . Glasgow have the short life expectancy in Scotland and in western Europe . the people of my city , who bring I so much joy , live short and less healthy life than those anywhere else in the UK . far too many die too soon . they do not get the happiness that the autumn of life bring : time with grandchild , time with friend and time volunteering at a local church or a local mosque . my constituency have some of the high level of poverty in the United Kingdom . poverty be one the principal cause of ill health and early death . health be the topic of today ' s debate . many of my constituent can not afford to pay for the essential and live in shocking housing condition . they live every day petrified of what tomorrow will bring . this Budget confront poverty . it increase the national living wage , give a pay rise to the low pay in my constituency , and give pensioner more than £ 400 this year under the triple lock and more than £ 1 , 700 over the course of the Parliament . this Budget make a choice — it target our scare public resource at the poor — and I support it . my constituent rely on the scottish NHS , but the Scottish NHS be in crisis . almost one in six scot be on an NHS waiting list . look at what they have do in Wales . I be discuss Scotland . this be a serious topic about my constituent ' health . the waste by the Scottish Government — hundred of million return to the EU unspent and hundred of million waste on ferry — could have be divert to the hospital in Glasgow , to put bed in the Royal Infirmary , where they be need . the SNP be never to blame . the 62 - day cancer treatment standard have not be meet for over a decade , despite cancer be one of Scotland ' s big killer . I have meet countless pensioner who have be force to pay thousand of pound to go private for their hip replacement and knee operation , because the Scottish NHS waiting list be so long . this Budget mean £ 1 . 5 billion this year for the Scottish Government to spend on the NHS , and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion next year . our Budget put the people of Scotland first and enable the SNP to fix the mess it have make of our health service . with its record increase in scottish funding , this Budget demonstrate our commitment to Scotland . very few hospital in Britain can claim to be as essential as North Devon district hospital , which be the remotest acute hospital in mainland England . it serve a truly massive catchment area , span almost 1 , 200 square mile and more than 165 , 000 people as far afield as Lynton in north Devon and Bude in north Cornwall . thousand of my constituent would face a more than two - hour drive to reach their next near trauma unit . during the tourist season , our hospital ' s emergency demand increase by a full 20 % . yet shockingly , North Devon hospital have just six bed in its intensive care unit , and only four elective operating theatre — far few than the NHS expect for any hospital of that size — and both be now approach 50 year old . its endoscopy and woman and child ' s building be already end of life . it have a significant backlog of £ 80 million of overdue maintenance cost , half of which be categorise as critical or high risk . North Devon district hospital be include in the new hospital programme in 2019 , but if it do not receive the funding now , critical and acute service will be at serious risk of service failure . there be no alternative provision for more than 40 mile . the last Conservative Government promise a major infrastructure upgrade and spade in the ground by February this year . neither have materialise — what a surprise . worse still , the last Government change the term of reference of the hospital ' s submit business case not once but twice , push essential work on crumble infrastructure beyond 2030 . my local hospital have a track record of deliver project on time and within budget , such as the new discharge lounge , electronic patient record and the jubilee ward . the path ahead could not be clear : the business case have be submit , the land be own and the rebuild have the backing of the Devon integrate care board . the phase 1 enable work , cover key worker accommodation , a new road layout and an upgrade helipad , could have be complete as soon as April 2027 . phase 2 ' s clinical building , replace operate theatre and the old intensive care unit and provide a replacement woman and child ' s centre , should have start before the next general election . everything be ready to go . the can have be kick down the road for long enough under the Conservatives . I really do sympathise with this new Government and the position they find themselves in . the only thing hard than have to deliver on their own promise be make someone else ' s good . our NHS be literally a lifeline for so many of we across the country . last year , I witness that at first hand . from ride 85 mile on a Sunday , I go for precautionary test on the Monday . to my horror , the artery around my heart be completely block . it be an incredibly difficult time for I and my family , but the NHS be there for I : the doctor , the cardiologist who tell I the news in such a nice way it feel as if nothing be wrong , the surgeon who operate on I very urgently because that need to be do quickly due to the potential impact it could have have on I , and the nurse who nurse I back when I need the care the most . like so many in this Chamber and across the country , the healthcare professional — the doctor , nurse and administrative staff — be the reason I be able to stand here today in good health to address the Chamber . among they be the very neighbour who take care of I during my time in hospital . as member be all too well aware , however , the NHS be far from perfect . tory austerity decimate the NHS and the covid mismanagement add fuel to the burn fire engulf the NHS . our waiting list be at record level : 7 million people wait for elective treatment ; 10 % of patient now wait 12 hour or more in A & E ; and 350 , 000 people a year wait for mental health support . this be the bad crisis for our NHS since its formation 76 year ago . protect our NHS be crucial , so that people can get the treatment they need , when they need it . whether it be a heart bypass like mine , a transplant or cancer treatment , this Labour Budget deliver a decisive shift from the disastrous — Order . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I gently remind member that we be on a three - minute time limit . also , when I be stand , member should please sit down . the Liberal Democrats have long be push for the Budget to be a Budget for the NHS , so it be pleasing to see so much investment in our national health service . the boost in capital expenditure be particularly welcome , because Cheadle ' s local hospital , Stepping Hill , be in dire need of support and investment . only a few week ago , Stockport NHS foundation trust release figure show that the maintenance bill require to bring the hospital up to scratch be over £ 130 million , up from £ 80 million just five year ago . the cost of the previous Government be there for all to see . last year , the hospital ' s out - patient building be condemn and demolish . in March , the intensive care unit be temporarily close because the ceiling be come in . since January , almost 10 , 000 people have have to wait for long than 12 hour in A & E . some 70 % of Stepping Hill ' s estate be now class in the high risk category . in fact , when I be there just a few month ago , the incredible nurse talk I through how on rainy day they have to place bucket down to ensure that water come through the roof be catch . that be utterly shameful and my constituent be suffer . one constituent contact my office shortly after I be elect to tell I about their experience . after wait month for a simple surgical procedure , the partial collapse of the ICU lead to their surgery be delay . it be then confirm again as delay . then , after it be rearrange , there be a further delay because there be not enough bed for aftercare . each time , the delay seem to be impose last minute and out of the blue , which of course drive uncertainty and worry not just for my constituent but for their friend and family . I want to put on record that this be not the fault of the doctor and nurse . the doctor , nurse and other NHS staff do an incredible job in the bad circumstance , and they be suffer also . they be be force to work in these condition . they be the one who have to break the bad news to patient when their surgery and appointment be cancel , although it be rarely their fault . every day those staff show up and deliver the good service that they can for their patient . the fault lie with the Conservatives . for 14 year they sit back and watch as Stepping Hill , like many other hospital , crumble . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will carry on ; I be nearly do . for 14 year , the Conservatives ignore health professional and patient who be cry out for their hospital to be fix . as those cry be ignore , the problem become bad and bad . we be now face a repair bill of £ 130 million , and without urgent action that will only become more expensive , so the new Government must act now . I be delighted that there be a commitment to our hospital , but they must act now and give the patient , the staff and my constituent the hospital that they need . if they delay far , cost will only rise and even more part of the building will crumble . this Budget will deliver to community such as mine . may I begin by welcome the mineworker ' pension scheme resolution ? it mean that £ 1 . 5 billion of miner ' pension payment to their fund will be distribute among 112 , 000 former miner and their family . it be absolutely right that an injustice have be correct , for those people have wait far too long . it be also shameful that the last Government fail to budget for the resolution of the Post Office Horizon and infect blood scandal , and I applaud our Chancellor for correct that now . I urge the pensioner who will not receive the winter fuel allowance — those who be just miss out — to apply for universal credit ; in St Helens , £ 6 . 5 million remain unclaimed . I regret that we have be unable to remove the two - child cap , or deal justice to the WASPI woman . let I now turn to the issue of local authority funding for adult and child ' s social care . local council bear the brunt of austerity ; successive Government cut since 2010 have leave they in dire strait , which disproportionately affect the people who be most likely to access social care . there have be increase pressure to find saving , which have not only cut service and job but seriously limit the ability to invest in cost - effective preventive service . some 73 % of the budget of St Helens borough council be spend on adult and child ' s social care . I welcome the Chancellor ' s 3 . 2 % real - term increase in local government funding , include the £ 600 million to support social care — will the hon . Lady give way ? no . it be good that , in the short term , a Labour Government will target additional grant funding at the council that be most in need , but that need to be the start of a process that will reverse year of financial decline . for too long , local council funding formula have work against underprivileged community , and the area that need fund the most often do not receive their fair share . sadly , that create a downward spiral , with an ever - increase percentage of local government funding be spend on social care . this be not sustainable . as I have say , 73 % of our council ' s budget be spend on social care . moreover , the 48 member of the Special Interest Group of Municipal Authorities be unable to invest in their local area in the same way as their counterpart because of the funding formula . one in four household in England live in a SIGOMA council area . at present , social care service be a postcode lottery , and that need to be address . we need a methodology that take actual need into consideration , and ensure that the funding follow . however , I applaud the Chancellor for provide £ 250 million for child ' s social care and £ 600 million for adult . it be a long time since I have have the pleasure of speak in a Budget debate . usually there be a bit more competition for the opportunity to speak , but give the much - diminish number present , I get this chance today . have be more of an observer in the past few year , I have notice one aspect of the Budget : the form , the tempo and the rhythm that seem to be part of every single Budget debate . it always start with a high , fevere crescendo of excitement . the Government reel off all the staccato of freebie and giveaway . cheer come from the Back Benches , Order Papers be wave , and the nation feel bamboozle by this apparent avalanche of largesse . then , of course , the first crack appear — a negative forecast from the OBR here , bad news on the gilt market there . beyond that , it all start to fall apart . once the public realise what the Budget mean to they and get over the intoxication , the hangover start and the first opinion poll start to come out . there be one in Scotland at the weekend , and it show a calamitous decline in Labour ' s fortune , just as the party be measure up the curtain for Bute House . it be not so straightforward for Labour any more . I want to do something different and actually praise the Labour Government . I want to thank they and say , " well do for get that funding for infected blood . that ' s great ! " I also thank they for the extra funding that Scotland will get — it would be churlish not to do so . it be what we ask for , and I be really glad that they have start to listen to we . I just wish they would do a little bit more of that . however , there be issue with all of this . one of the main issue be the change in employer ' s national insurance contribution , which have cause a real problem for some of our colleague in Scotland , because we do not know what we will get as a block grant . will we be fully fund for the national insurance contribution in our health and police budget ? we need to have clarity , and the money have to be in addition to the block grant funding , not in place of it . I would like clarity from the Minister on that issue . there be one local issue that I want to raise : the levelling - up funding for Perth . Levelling - up funding be pork barrel politic at its most gratuitous , and we be the only city local authority that do not get one penny from the Conservative Government . we finally get a paltry £ 5 million , and we be so excited about that . we have three shiny project in Perth city centre that we be go to develop . then , of course , the Budget come along . after we secure practically nothing from the Conservatives , a Labour Government be take the money away from we . I want to hear the Government say that they will give Perth what it be due . budget be like firework on bonfire night : they go up like a rocket , with lot of noise and colour , then they come down like a damp squib . today , the Government ' s Budget feel very much like that damp squib . I begin by welcome the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , particularly the part about smoke - free space . for those of we with anaphylactic allergy , vape represent a high risk , because cloud of vape smoke contain allergen . we have see the first report of anaphylactic reaction to second - hand vape smoke , so I very much welcome the prevention include in the Bill . I will move on to the Budget . there be a reason why people across Wales overwhelmingly reject the Conservatism that crash our economy , fail to fund our public service and oversaw economic decline . furthermore , the Conservative Government be not honest about the challenge that we face . they be not honest with farmer in Clwyd East , small business owner , public servant or potential investor . they spend money that be not budget for — the height of irresponsibility . to say that they overpromise and underdelivered would be a colossal understatement . last week , however , this Labour Government deliver an honest budget that give hope to the people of Wales , with the large funding boost that Wales have receive since devolution : £ 21 billion , with a £ 1 . 7 billion Barnett formula uplift for the Welsh Government to support the vital public service on which my constituent rely . that include £ 250 million for capital investment . it be the big Budget settlement for Wales since devolution . we be work with the Welsh Government to invest in our NHS and increase the national minimum wage , benefit more than 70 , 000 worker across Wales . some £ 2 . 3 billion have be provide for prison expansion , to sort out the mess that the previous Government make of our criminal justice system . we have provide £ 5 billion for the farming budget , to accompany a new veterinary agreement that this Government be seek in order to cut the red tape and get Welsh food export move . we have provide £ 100 million to support steel community , and £ 25 million to make coal tip safe . importantly , we be end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . as someone who grow up in a coalfield community and whose family work at the Point of Ayr colliery , I be proud to stand on a manifesto pledge to return the investment reserve — over £ 1 billion — to those who need and deserve it : the former miner themselves . that mean a huge amount to the nearly 300 former mineworker in Clwyd East . we owe they this , and we deliver it . while the Budget make difficult choice , it set we on a path to growth and provide vital investment for Wales . it have my full support . while this Budget have some welcome measure , include adopt liberal Democrat proposal on increase the earning limit for carer ' s allowance , other raise serious concern . the previous Conservative Government leave our NHS on its knee . People in Thornbury and Yate be feed up with struggle to get a GP appointment or register with an NHS dentist , so I will be hold the Government to account to ensure that the extra funding actually deliver for patient . on that note , I be deeply concerned about the knock - on impact of raise employer ' s national insurance contribution on those part of the system that be not in the public sector . GPs and pharmacist play a vital role in preventive health and in detect serious problem early , yet because many be privately run business , they will be leave foot a huge new tax bill . I have be contact by several concerned local GP surgery . one tell I that as it have a large number of part - time worker who be previously exempt but will now be eligible , the national insurance increase alone will wipe 2 . 5 % off its top - line budget . another tell I : " this change will have a significant financial impact on general practice , include my own , and can only serve to directly undermine access and patient care " . blackburn have the third high number of patient per GP . do the Member agree that , despite the ringfencing of the funding that GP surgery get , the increase in national insurance will essentially reduce the number of available appointment at GP surgery ? that be exactly the point that my local gp be try to make , and I be not clear from the Secretary of State ' s early remark whether this will be address . similarly , the majority of social care provider be privately run company . they play a huge part in reduce pressure on hospital , and raise employer ' s national insurance will deal a hammer blow to struggle provider . that be why I urge the Government to think again and provide they with the same support they have provide for publicly own NHS service . they should instead look to raise the money need by reverse conservative tax cut for the big bank , or by ask the social medium giant to pay their fair share . I be disappoint that the Budget make little or no reference to social care , and I urge Ministers to start cross - party talk on social care now . the other area that I want to touch on be flood . I draw the House ' s attention to the letter I send ahead of the Budget about the need to support local authority to prevent and respond to flooding . my Thornbury and Yate constituency recently endure 50 % of its annual rainfall in just one month . the council have have to respond to that within its already overstretch budget . while I welcome the funding for flood resilience project , it need to be recognise that year of underfunding under the last Government have leave council struggle to maintain their infrastructure to prevent surface water flooding . give more time , I would like to cover other topic , include the concern that the additional SEND funding will barely touch the side , the impact on farmer , bus user and small business , and the ongoing financial crisis in local government . instead , I will conclude by note that the unintended consequence lurk in this Budget put at risk much - need improvement to our public service . I hope the Government will think again and make the right decision now for the long term , include fix social care and deliver long - term infrastructure improvement . I want to start by say that we can not and should not ever underestimate the power and strength of the message that have our Budget deliver by the first female Chancellor in history send to young woman and girl across the country . there should be no limit to their ambition . in Stevenage and across the country , 14 year of conservative rule have leave a crippling cost of living crisis , record NHS waiting list , rapidly reduce school funding and worsen public transport . I could go on , but I represent a town of aspiration . the people of my town have have their ambition and hope dampen by decline and hold back by a break Britain . however , this Budget send a clear signal that Labour have start the work of get politic to work for work people again . one of the labour manifesto ' s most fundamental promise be to fix the foundation of our broken public service . I recently attend a local old person day host by Stevenage borough council , where we talk about pensioner ' priority . the Budget maintain the triple lock , which will be worth an extra £ 470 for pensioner next year , on top of the more than £ 900 they be receive this year from the same commitment . I spend a lot of time speak to carer in my area who be look after love one in testing circumstance . this Budget deliver the large increase in the carer ' s allowance since its introduction , start the work of recognise the huge sacrifice they make . however , I know that this work will be complete only when we fundamentally reform our break social care system , and I very much look forward to that . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be afraid not . I represent a constituency with multiple borough and district council that have bear the brunt of 14 year of Government cut . this Budget deliver £ 1 . 3 billion extra for local council to provide essential service that be vital to our community . fifty per cent of patient in my local NHS trust wait long than the target treatment time , and 31 % wait over four hour to be see in A & e . despite the heroism and hard work of NHS staff , something simply have to change . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have make the brave decision to stand up and fight for our NHS , boldly support by our Chancellor . I greatly welcome the shift in focus from sickness to prevention , from analogue to digital , and from hospital to community . this crisis can not be fix in one Budget , and it may even take a few Budgets , but at least now there be hope where there be none before . since the Budget , many healthcare provider in my constituency have tell I how worried they be about last week ' s announcement . these healthcare provider , which include GP surgery , dental practice , healthcare operator and pharmacy , be small business operate in the heart of our community . they do so much with so little over the last 14 year under the Conservatives . although I welcome the increase investment , this Labour Budget be suppose to be a breath of fresh air for primary care and for our health service . instead , our gps , pharmacist and dentist feel take for grant . they feel let down , and they be scared . the rise in employer ' s national insurance contribution and the lowering of the earning threshold be life - threaten for GP practice such as rowden surgery in Chippenham . they do not have the profit margin to absorb these cost , and they can not pass they on to their client . because they be designate as public authority , they be not even eligible for the employment allowance , mean that they will bear the full weight of this rise in employment cost , which they simply can not afford . a GP practice partner in my constituency tell I over the weekend , " I love my job . I have never regret become a gp until this week . now I be seriously contemplate my future in this role . " this gp be one of eight partner in their practice , which deliver care to 19 , 000 patient in my constituency , but the financial pressure on they be bleak . if our GPs can not afford to run their practice because of this Budget , they will have to reduce service , lose staff or , bad , cease to exist . my constituency can not bear the loss of a single gp , let alone a whole practice . will the Minister consider meet I to look at option for mitigate the increase cost face by GPs in my constituency due to the rise in national insurance contribution and the lowering of the earning threshold for surgery like Rowden ? I be grateful for be call to speak in the Budget debate , particularly during this discussion of the UK ' s most beloved national institution . the NHS may be well love , but unfortunately it have not be well care for over the past 14 year — and don ' t we all know it : our inboxe be fill with message from people cry out for our support in get the treatment that they desperately need . all the datum show the problem . in my area , we be more than four time over the NHS national target rate for people wait in A & E for over four hour . elective operation be be cancel at the last minute . in the first quarter of 2010 , when the last Labour Government be in power , just 75 such operation be cancel in my area , but 520 operation be cancel in the first quarter of this year . that show the scale of the problem that we face . we know from personal experience — from whenever we come into contact with the health service — that NHS worker bend over backwards to try to make thing work for we , often when they be in overtime , but mistake and delay be inevitable in an organisation that have be systematically under - resource . nhs worker need a Government who be on their side . in this Budget , we be provide exactly that by deliver a £ 22 . 6 billion increase in NHS funding , with 40 , 000 new elective appointment per week , and new surgical hub and scanner . that will get on with the job of clear the Conservatives ’ backlog . I find some of the comment make by Conservative Members deeply surprising . they be well sum up by what the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) say . he wring his hand for millionaire family , but be perfectly happy to see child poverty grow to include over a third of child in the UK . conservative Members talk of the Budget plunge people into debt , when they rack up £ 2 . 6 trillion of debt — three time the amount they inherit from the Labour Government . they talk about the amount of tax on business while ignore the fact that work people in the UK have never be more highly tax than under the last government . they talk about be on the side of business , but ignore the fact that a Prime Minister who they put into office use a very rude four - letter word to say what he think about business in this country . when it come to NHS investment , there be one thing that we can all rally around : it be desperately need for research on the collective amnesia of Conservative Members . while the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be in the Chamber , it would be remiss not to mention that Crawley could do with a brand new acute hospital , if they be be dish out . however , as this government do not tend to promise hospital and then not put any funding aside for deliver they , I will leave that debate for the future . the service that we have nee to deliver for patient once more . the Darzi report have show we the way forward , and this Budget put we back on course to deliver the world - class , cradle - to - grave health service that Labour Members give to the country in the 1940 , that Labour Members rescue in the 1990 , and that member here will save again in the 2020s . if conservative member wish to save that service , they be perfectly welcome to join we in the Division Lobby later in the week . this be not a Budget for growth . on the Treasury ' s own figure , growth will decline from 2 % next year for the rest of the decade . on the OBR ' s analysis , this Budget be inflationary . it be not on small business that the responsibility should land . small business employ people . small and medium - sized business drive the UK economy . if we tax they , we tax growth . if we tax their great asset — the people who work for they — then we take away employment opportunity for hard - work people . I will talk more substantively about the dire impact of the Budget on health and social care , include health and social care provider that be not part of the NHS . the increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution will cause great difficulty and hardship for GP practice ; charity , include hospice ; dentist ; pharmacy , which be crucial provider of health service ; and social care provider . those organisation , charity and business think that they might have a friend in a Labour Government , but I assure Government Members that they do not feel as though the Labour Government be a friend right now . I have be speak to those in GP practice in my constituency on the Isle of Wight . one say : " our increase in tax from this Budget be the equivalent of the salary of a practice nurse . there will be no new practice nurse for we . " do my hon . friend agree that no one would think less of the government if they listen to these argument , hear the message and change ? for instance , there be the message about social care be hit by £ 2 . 5 billion of extra cost . the £ 600 million that have be give to local authority will not cover those cost . if the Government simply listen and change , people would think much well of they , and we would have a social care system that support the NHS , rather than one that stop the NHS be able to do what it need to do . I agree with my right hon . friend . in fact , there have be one common theme run through this debate : gp practice , charity such as hospice , dentist , pharmacist and social care provider be all be tax by this Government . at a time when they need Government most , these provider find increase pressure on their ability to employ and provide service to the british people . there would be no shame if the Labour Government be to do something about this gross problem with their own Budget . move on to social care , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say that there would be no more money for the NHS without reform , yet the Chancellor provide £ 22 billion for day - to - day spending unattache to reform . she and the Secretary of State be give the equivalent of just 2 . 5 % — £ 600 million — of that £ 22 billion for social care . that be a tiny fraction , yet the big reform that our NHS need be fair funding for social care . money would be well spend on relieve the pressure on hospital , and get people out of hospital bed who do not need or want to be there , but who have nowhere safe to go to . through this Budget , social care provider not only face the full burden of increase national insurance contribution , as employer , but receive a small fraction of the funding that the NHS receive . I urge the Government to go back to the drawing board and provide for our GPs , dentistry , pharmacy , hospice and social care . the first Labour Budget in 14 year need we to take a clear - eyed view of what have be inherit . look at the conservative legacy for our country , we see : terrible , almost non - existent , average earning growth ; low productivity per worker hour than in every G7 country besides Italy ; GDP per capita growth stall for the long time since the end of the war ; record debt ; high taxis ; and poor public service . the lack of growth in real wage be unprecedented in the last 200 year of british economic history . that be the Conservatives ’ record , and that be what they have to face up to . particularly savage , as hon . member have point out , be the cut to public investment . the Conservative Government inherit a debt - to - gdp ratio in 2010 of 65 % . ten year later , pre - covid , it be 83 % . the Conservative Government promise to eliminate the deficit in 2010 ; then they promise to eliminate it in the 2015 and 2017 election ; and then they give up the ghost entirely in the 2019 election . after that dazzling record , we be treat to the Liz Truss magic — Liz , a prophet currently not recognise in her own land . she present a mini - Budget with £ 45 billion of unfunded tax cut . there be no forecast — the Conservatives like the Office for Budget Responsibility today , but they do not like OBR then — and we know what happen . we see Tory chaos , and we can never go back to that . when my right hon . friend come to office as Chancellor of the Exchequer and look under the hood , what do she find ? More chaos : unfunded policy decision ; undisclosed pressure ; and overspend . the OBR list they . the previous Government promise but do not allocate a penny for the £ 10 billion infected blood compensation scheme . they promise but do not budget for the £ 2 billion Horizon Post Office scandal . I be glad to see stability and common sense finally return . there be fiscal rule that make sense and will be adhere to ; we be bring the current budget into balance , so that we do not borrow to fund day - to - day spending ; and we be move to a proper recognition of net financial debt that take into account investment that deliver . those sound , sensible decision put we on a sustainable path . compare that to a conservative party that would rather we continue " to founder under old habit , rot institution , " and that be content for Britain ' s hull to be " encrust with nostalgia " , and for we to drift off into the 21st century . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not ; I have only 25 second leave . that be the story of national decline that the conservative party be write for our country . we will not stand for it . we be go to build a well , green , fair future for our country . the theme of this debate be public service , but there have be a distinct lack of discussion from Government Members about what deliver the finance necessary to fund those service ; this be the Budget , after all . the answer be simply the productive economy , and small business in particular . the Government talk a good game about want well fund public service , and each and every one of we in this House would be hard pressed to find a constituent who disagree , but the Government ' s measure — particularly the job tax in the Budget , but also their wide agenda in the Employment Rights Bill , through which we be move to french - style labour law — be an attack on where that money come from . we must always remember that every single penny spend by the british state have to be earn in the private sector . chucking money at an unreformed public sector while balloon public sector pay , and do that on the back of the productive economy and small business , show a distinct lack of real world , private sector experience among Government Members . my first memory be of my parent go to night school on alternate evening to get the qualification they need to set up their small business . their aim be simple : to give my brother and I opportunitie that they could never have dream of . in do that , they pay hundred of thousand of pound — I end up with quite a prosperous upbringing , I admit — into the Government exchequer . they create apprenticeship and skilled job in a tough part of urban Greater Manchester . they not only transform our life but improve the life of child around they , and create opportunity for local people while pay for public service through their taxis . do my hon . friend agree that the absence on the Government Front Bench of anyone with any experience of run a business , when business create the wealth that pay for public service , may explain why the Budget be so financially illiterate ? I thank my right hon . friend . that absolutely show , as we see from the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast mention by my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) . put up taxis unsustainably may mean adrenaline into the public sector from an injection of cash , but the medium and long - term result will be low growth , which will mean that public service be just get a large slice of a small pie . it be clear to I that the tax burden be high than be necessarily sustainable . tax rise now will not necessarily flow into great revenue , particularly in the medium term . I ask the Government to check their approach , support small business first and foremost , and focus their public service effort in the first instance on productivity reform . Lord Darzi ' s independent report pronounce that the NHS in England be in a critical condition . by commission the report and through the announcement in last week ' s Budget , the Government have declare their intention to fix our NHS and set a firm foundation for the future . I particularly commend the decision in the Budget to invest in mental health crisis centre , in order to move those experience a mental health crisis away from the accident and emergency unit . although we will always need crisis support , mental health provision — like physical health provision — should focus on intervention at the early possible juncture , rather than rely on emergency care . so often , those in need of mental health care face barrier to access help . they face difficulty in get gp appointment and be refer to the appropriate waiting list , and they then spend year on those waiting list . young people with neurodevelopmental condition might spend year not be see by local child and adolescent mental health service , until their case be refer to the private sector because they be about to turn 18 or they be transfer to the bottom of the adult waiting list . the Budget be clear that there be a need for investment . my scottish constituent have be fail by two government . the previous Conservative Government have rightly be the focus of much of today ' s debate , but the current Scottish Government have be asleep on the job , quite frankly . all the sign that make Lord Darzi say that the NHS be in crisis in England apply just as much to Scotland . one in six scot be on a waiting list for treatment , test or appointment . hospital post on social medium tell patient not to go to accident and emergency unless their condition be life - threatening — my local hospital do so on 27 October . GPs be at break point , with a prescription system that still require paper and fax machine , and there be no NHS app or e - prescribing for scottish patient . I commend the large budget settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution . now , the Scottish Government must use it to fix the system that they break . devolution be massively important to I — I knock on door to campaign for the creation of the Scottish Parliament — and I will defend it with my life , but we want to ensure that it work for everyone , so that there be no chance of " big boy do it and run away . " over the past few day , I have be contact by GPs from St Andrew ' s surgery in my constituency , whose busy practice look after 13 , 200 patient . they include Dr Katie Popplewell , who tell I that the propose increase to employer national insurance contribution be likely to cost the practice a whopping £ 27 , 000 — the equivalent of two GP session a week — before other staffing cost be factor in . as she put it : " at a time when the Government have promise to repair and invest in the NHS , this decision to place a further burden on practice must change , or we will see an adverse impact on patient care on offer in Eastleigh and more practice close their door for good . " every liberal Democrat Member recognise the challenge face the country after year of conservative mismanagement , but I hope that the Chancellor will consider exempt GPs , small business , pharmacy , dentist , care home and charity from the propose increase to employer national insurance contribution . although I be pleased to see a commitment to more funding for breakfast club , there be no mention of the two - child benefit cap in the Chancellor ' s statement , and frankly I be at a loss in understand why . the Conservative Government trap hundred of thousand of child in poverty with their cruel and counterproductive two - child limit . as numerous charity and the Liberal Democrats have point out , scrap the two - child benefit cap would be the quick and most effective way of lift child out of poverty in my Eastleigh constituency and across the UK , with huge long - term benefit for our society and our economy . in Eastleigh , we be also face a local transport crisis . Hampshire county council have withdraw funding from multiple route over the past year , which have have a huge impact on my constituent , particularly in Chandler ' s Ford and Valley Park . the bus fare hike will impact those in my community who can least afford it , and could result in yet more route be cut with no alternative public transport provision . thousand of woman in my constituency who be bear in the 1950 have be impact by the DWP ' s failure to communicate change to their state pension age . it be incredibly disappointing that the WASPI woman do not get a single mention in the Chancellor ' s speech . it have be eight month since the ombudsman find that the DWP have fail to adequately communicate the change . I implore the Chancellor to make the resolution of that issue a priority . do not leave it until the next Budget ; those woman have already wait long enough . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in this debate about the Budget — a Budget I be very proud to support as the first Labour Budget in 15 year . I also thank the various member who have make their maiden speech in this debate , particularly because like myself , so many of they have work in the NHS . many of we have feel the urge to get select for , and elect to , this House because of our experience over the past 14 year . I understand that among Opposition Members , there be a feeling that Labour member do not understand business , but I can tell they that we understand the public sector , public service and our community — and actually , that be a disservice to all the member on the Labour Benches who have run business . it be particularly important to I that a couple of Labour Members have previous experience as nhs manager . in his report , Lord Darzi make it very clear that one of the problem the NHS have face be an undervaluing of the management side , as oppose to the clinical side , so those Members ' voice will be really important in this debate . this Budget give we solid foundation for investment and rebuild this country — of that , I have no doubt . this Budget be also what people in my constituency have be cry out for , because they know that our public service be fray to a point that be almost beyond repair . honestly , that be what people in my constituency keep tell I . unlike some member , who have apparently have some very negative response to the Budget , I can tell those member from canvass at the weekend and from what be in my inbox that I have see a really positive response to this Budget . People be really glad to see that the investment have start , and frankly , there be a sense of reality — a recognition that this be not go to be a quick fix . on the health service and social care in particular , I applaud the fact that the Secretary of State have not just commission the diagnostic investigation from Lord Darzi , but have now commission a 10 - year plan for the NHS . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I do not think so . that plan will be need to get the NHS back on its foot , and as a counter to some of the comment about national insurance and burden on business , the Secretary of State be very clear that he be go to look at the NHS allocation to GPs and other people supply the NHS — that come with the plan . beyond that , it be really important to recognise the damage that have be do to business over the past 14 year by all the other cost that have be accrue . the mental health crisis damage recruitment and retention , and business have have to cope with all those extra cost across the board . I welcome this debate , which centre on health and inequality within our society . the hospital be in a crisis situation , with huge demand on they , insufficient resource and underfunding , and of course huge debt from the past that be not be address . in an intervention on the Secretary of State early , I ask a question about the future of private finance initiative project , which take up over 15 % of most hospital ' budget . I think pfi need to be take over by the Treasury — as be envisage in previous manifesto — as a way of release that cash directly into the national health service , which would help with waiting list for operation and all the demand that be not be meet . my second point be that healthcare be not just about hospital : it be also about social care and mental health . in the case of my own borough , Islington — a very typical inner - city borough in many way — our social care cost be up by £ 20 million and go up all the time , because there be more and more people with demand . family be move away , more and more people be isolate , and demand be get great and great . there have to be a change in the whole social care policy , and I hope the Government will bring forward serious proposal for a universal , wraparound national care service to take away the pain and stress that so many family face as a result of social care cost . likewise , the mental health crisis be real , it be serious and it be here , particularly among young people — sadly , often particularly among young male . I realise that it be early day for this government , but I hope they will appreciate that not only do we need a much more effective and efficient mental health service , but we need to recognise that mental health stress come from other stress in society such as housing , job , family , environment and many other issue . we can not separate the question of healthcare and health need from poverty in our society . end the two - child benefit cap would release some people , include child , from the desperate poverty they be in . not take away the winter fuel allowance from very poor pensioner would help a great deal . likewise , the issue of housing stress , huge rent level in the private rent sector and desperate level of overcrowding for many people in community such as mine have to be address . under the proposal of the 1945 Labour Government , health and housing be link together , and we need to look seriously at that . my local authority , Islington , have lose £ 105 million in payment since 2010 . that be typical for local government . we need the money put back in to deliver the service our people need . I join my colleague in welcome the Budget and all it represent in make a real difference to the healthcare outcome of my constituent in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village . in a way , campaign on rebuild the NHS during the election be easy . I do not have to explain to my constituent that our health service be break . the NHS be not something that happen off in the distance : it be a gp on the end of a phone , or the ambulance service that come run the second 999 be call , or the kind nurse who sit with a grandparent in their hospital bed . it be the real beat heart of this country . my constituent feel the impact of the NHS every day of their life , except now for many the phone call to the GP at 8 am take 40 minute , the ambulance arrive after several hour , with luck , and there be no bed available in hospital . we see the impact of the last 14 year on our health service and the shameful legacy leave by the Conservatives . the Budget be the first step in deliver the change my constituent vote for . it represent a new chapter , a commitment to put health and community first and the beginning of rebuild what have be lose . I know that the Minister for Care have recently state that the Government be determined to shift more healthcare out of hospital and into our community . I wholeheartedly support that goal , especially when it come to palliative and end of life care , which local hospice in Stafford faithfully provide . I recently meet staff at Katharine House hospice in my constituency to discuss the importance of palliative care . I be very move to see the care and empathy with which they provide service in our community . the Budget be a reset for the NHS , allow we to focus on prevent ill health in the first place and move healthcare from hospital to community as we build an NHS fit for the future . I welcome it , as do my constituent . it be appropriate that I be follow the word of the hon . member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) about the palliative care sector . I be grateful for the substantial settlement for the NHS , especially as Scotland will get £ 3 . 4 billion , which will make an enormous difference . the Belford hospital in Fort William have be condemn , effectively , for 25 year . unfortunately , I have very little confidence in the Scottish Government to spend that £ 3 . 4 billion well . I recently speak with Kenny Steel , the chief executive officer of Highland hospice in Inverness , who tell I that the change to employer national insurance be expect to add an unaffordable £ 177 , 000 to its annual salary bill . that come on top of the need to remain competitive with the 5 . 5 % salary increase award to NHS staff . Marie Curie anticipate that the NI increase will cost it £ 3 million a year — money it do not currently have . the Government ' s plan increase in employer NI contribution to 15 % from April 2025 be an impossible amount for the palliative care sector . if those essential care provider can not absorb the additional cost , their survival be at risk . if hospice fail , the patient they support will inevitably turn to the NHS , place great pressure on an already overstretch system . if the Minister could listen to I and put his phone down for a moment , I would be grateful — can you listen to I , just for a second ? I remind the hon . member not to address other people in the Chamber as " you " , as he be actually address I . please continue . palliative care charity be essential partner that deliver compassionate , dignified end - of - life care on behalf of , and much cheap than , the NHS . organisation that provide healthcare for the NHS should be treat like NHS body in these decision . increase NI contribution for hospice but not the NHS place those provider in a critical financial position , and firmly indicate that the Government regard organisation such as Highland hospice as second - class . I be proud to speak in this debate on a budget that mark a turning point for our country and my constituency of Colchester . it be a Budget that fix the country ' s foundation and a Budget that work to repair and reform our NHS . our health service mean a huge amount to those we represent and their family . our health and social care staff do an amazing job , day in , day out . they and those for whom they care have long deserve well . member of my own family have spend decade work in the NHS : my mother as a midwife , health visitor and then public health champion ; and my sister as nurse , one now a diabetes specialist , one support a parish nursing community programme . I have hear from they at first hand about the challenge they face . those challenge be immense and will take a long time to address . the Budget recognise that . it walk towards those difficulty , rather than kick the can yet far down the road . the Chancellor face a stark choice and she rightly choose the hard road . as a government , we could have continue with the fail policy of the past 14 year , with the low growth and austerity that have leave our public service on their knee . instead , we opt for change and to invest in those service , in the workforce who make they possible , and in the technology that must transform they . I particularly welcome the extra £ 25 billion for the NHS across resource and capital budget to cut waiting list and invest in new equipment . that , combine with increase in the minimum wage , will help the frontline worker who struggle to make end meet . that include worker at Colchester hospital in my constituency who be fight plan to outsource their job to the low bidder . on that matter , I be back those staff who , like our wide workforce , deserve fair pay and condition . as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say in his opening speech , new investment for the NHS must be combine with innovation and take full advantage of the potential of life science and new technology . Colchester be home to the Institute of Public Health and Wellbeing at the University of Essex , which be lead the charge . together with local and global partner , it be develop new digital health , health informatic and health analytic that will help we to meet the challenge of the future . it be also work with our integrate care board to improve exist community and preventive service — something which my mother would have cheer to the rafter . she be rather old - school on that . she believe that we need the high - tech stuff , but we also need the low - tech stuff — basic thing — to support people to live healthy life through access to good food , green space , good housing and early year support . a Labour Government will bring all those thing , and I be proud to support that and this Budget . the theme of today ' s debate be fix the NHS and reform public service . to do that , the Government require a strong will to drive reform and financial support for public service that be hammer for far too long by 14 year of Tory austerity . as a former council leader who deal with tighten public sector budget against a backdrop of change demographic , which increase pressure on the NHS , care service and early service , I be well aware of the impact of austerity on our community in Scotland and , indeed , throughout the UK . I welcome the substantial increase in investment in public service in the Budget , but the Government could generate more to support the NHS and public service reform . I be refer to the flawed increase in spirit duty , which follow the brutal increase in spirit duty introduce by the Tories last year . I be proud to represent Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey , which be home to 48 distillery , include some of the well know brand in the world — brand that can be find in pretty much every major airport and high - end department store . the industry have a GVA — gross value add — of more than £ 7 billion , and export more than 40 bottle of whisky every second . the whisky sector have be invest heavily in sustainable operation and decarbonise its production , which have lead to incredible innovation in hydrogen for energy , waste treatment and waste heat transfer , shorten the supply chain and much more . those innovation be then use in other sector , include the public sector , to drive sustainable reform in how service be deliver . despite independent study show that the Treasury lose £ 300 million because the Tory duty increase go too far , the incoming Labour Government have push that even far — a move likely to cost the Treasury even more in lose revenue , when a duty cut would have drive sale of a high - quality product and generate increase revenue , support job and investment . in the election campaign the Prime Minster state that he would " back Scotch producer to the hilt " the Scotch Whisky Association describe that commitment as " broken " , with its chief executive , Mark Kent , state : " this be more than a broken promise , to many it will smack of a betrayal . Scotland ' s national drink , and the associate investment and job , have be actively undermine and discriminate against . " those be strong word , and the Government should take heed of they . instead of penalise this incredibly successful and innovative jewel in the crown of our food and drink sector , the Government must cut the duty on spirit to generate more sale and more tax revenue to support public service — revenue that could be use to protect GP practice , like the rest of our NHS , from change to employer ' s national insurance . it could also go some way to avoid the outrageous cut to winter fuel payment — a cut that have a particularly difficult impact in my constituency , which have some of the high altitude and cold community in the UK . I hope that the Government will listen and act on those concern . it be privilege to serve in this Parliament , and I be immensely proud to speak in support of the Budget , the Chancellor , and her remarkable team . as someone raise by strong , brave , and kind woman , I can not in good faith ignore the significance of have a woman lead the charge to rectify the economic instability leave by the man before she . this Budget lay the foundation for a fair , more productive economy , and aim to fix the very bedrock of our society . it be genuinely inspiring to see how the Chancellor ' s team have embrace the challenge of balance both the big picture of reform and national renewal , and the critical detail that support those most vulnerable to economic shift . the investment outline in the Budget can not come soon enough , especially in constituency such as mine , where average earning be nearly £ 7 , 500 below the UK average . my sister be a nurse at Weston general hospital at the heart of my constituency , and as a family we know the true weight of the crisis in healthcare . indeed , last week my mother , who have Parkinson ' s , fall over . we wait for nine or 10 hour , and eventually end up drag she into the car . there be no dignity in that , and that be the state we have be leave with . for we , if Labour have not win the election , healthcare free at the point of use would have be at risk of disappear forever . thankfully , under the Labour Government the NHS have be give a vital eleventh - hour reprieve . the £ 22 . 6 billion investment promise in the Budget will not only prevent further decline , but actively rebuild our health service . for Weston general and our GP surgery , that mean more appointment , long - overdue maintenance and improvement , and a sense of hope for our community . the Budget be not just about hold back the tide of decline ; it be about build a dam to protect the future . it be progressive , targeted investment where it be need most . in Weston - super - Mare , increase the minimum wage will see nearly 4 , 000 worker in North Somerset up to £ 1 , 400 well off each year , and with £ 1 . 6 billion allocate for road maintenance , we can start to tackle the huge backlog of pothole that plague Weston , Worle , and everywhere between . the £ 6 . 7 billion investment in education will mean well funding for Weston ' s school and college , and the £ 1 billion uplift for special educational need , disability and alternative provision , be a particularly welcome change for many family in my constituency , and will begin a much - need reform of SEND provision . although we know it will take time properly to address the crisis in local government funding that we inherit , £ 1 . 3 billion of new grant funding will increase resource for North Somerset council , support essential service for our community . the Budget deliver on why we be elect : to tackle the cost of living crisis , get our NHS back on its foot , and lie the foundation for an economy that not only grow , but do so in a way that build strong , healthy and more resilient community . when people see the change in our hospital , surgery , school and road , they will once again believe that government can be a force for good . this be just the beginning of our journey towards a fair , more hopeful future . member of this House will have see that the celebrated scottish comedian Janey Godley pass away on Saturday , after her long struggle with cancer come to an end in the Prince and Princess of Wales hospice in Glasgow . in her final day , Janey use social medium to highlight the wonderful hospice care she receive , and when her daughter announce her death , she take time to mention that her mother ' s pass be " peaceful and a nice transition . " that be the profound value of hospice care to our society and the nation ' s family . Janey Godley ' s choice to highlight the care she be receive in her final day should remind we all why hospice matter , yet across the country it be not an exaggeration to say that hospice be at break point , as we have hear from member across the House this afternoon . many hospice be grapple with severe staff shortage and tight budget constraint . redundancy and supply shortage have become alarmingly common , highlight systemic issue in the hospice sector . this most vital of service be reliant on an unsustainable model which , on average , require two third of hospice funding to come from some sort of charitable donation . that leave hospice vulnerable , reliant on charity shop and large contribution with no guarantee of financial stability , and it also add to the postcode lottery for patient . even the NHS funding that hospice receive fail to keep pace with inflation . nowhere be that crisis more evident than at St Raphael ' s hospice in my constituency of Sutton and Cheam . St Raph ' s be more than just a healthcare facility ; it be a sanctuary for those seek to die with dignity . the compassionate care provide there not only support the dying , but bring comfort to their family in one of the most challenging time in their life . however , it receive only 25 % of its funding from the NHS , which be substantially below the national average . in recent month , the hospice have be force to reduce its clinical community nurse team by 20 % and have completely discontinue its hospice at home programme , which once make sure that patient who want to spend their final day in the comfort of their own home could do so with dignity and support . over the past four year , run cost for St Raph ' s have rise by more than a million pound , but NHS funding to the hospice have increase by only £ 140 , 000 . in last week ' s Budget , the Chancellor pledge £ 22 . 6 billion to the NHS , which be long overdue after year of conservative neglect . however , hospice be notably absent from Labour ' s 10 - year plan for the NHS , and the rise in employer NI contribution threaten to push hospice already struggle with fragile finance over the cliff edge . if this government be serious about deliver change , they will exempt hospice from the rise in NI contribution and listen to call from the sector and inside this very House to sort out a proper funding deal to rescue our hospice . prior to the election , I spend the past 10 year run my own business . since July , one of the aspect of this role that I have enjoy the most be go out and talk to local business about how we can work together and how I can support they . I hear time and again from local business that they need a healthy workforce to survive . business do not want their staff sit on NHS waiting list , unable to come to work or with health condition impact their productivity . we all rely on strong public service and we have all feel their decline over the past 14 year of Conservative Government . business also need customer , and in South West Norfolk we will benefit from the national living wage increase . we be sadly a low - wage area . in my experience , when people on low income get a pay boost , they spend it . they replace something that be break , such as a toaster or a microwave , or they get the child some new clothe , or they complete home repair . that be money go back into the local economy , support , I hope , local business as much as possible . despite cover some 500 square mile and contain 100 , 000 people , nowhere within the boundary of South West Norfolk do we have a hospital or even a minor injury unit . towards the south of my constituency , our near hospital be West Suffolk in Bury St Edmunds , which be a 15 - mile drive from the constituency border , and it be roughly the same journey in the north of the constituency to the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn . when people eventually get to one of those hospital , there be a similar greeting . both hospital that serve my constituent be massively oversubscribed , and both be riddle with RAAC — the Queen Elizabeth be literally hold up by more than 5 , 000 metal and wooden prop . I see for myself over the summer how that be inevitably make it difficult to provide excellent patient care . I be delighted that the Chancellor make reference to West Suffolk hospital in her Budget statement . we be desperate to see that hospital replace ; it be the same with the Queen Elizabeth . I be pleased that this Labour Government be so focused on the RAAC challenge . we simply can not expect NHS staff to deliver first - class hospital care when the building be fall down around they . it be not just the focus on hospital building that will be welcome ; the more than £ 20 billion of extra funding for NHS service will go a long way towards address the huge backlog . access to health and social care service come up time and again during the election campaign in South West Norfolk . People face difficulty access a gp appointment and see a dentist be near impossible . the focus on health and social care and the support for those on low income be just what be need in my constituency . I look forward to support this Budget boost for west Norfolk . I congratulate hon . member who have make their maiden speech in the House today . the first Budget of a Labour Government in nearly 15 year be definitely an improvement on the 14 year of Tory austerity and waste , but it be a miss opportunity to bring about the transformative change that the country need . I welcome the increase in the national minimum wage and carer ' s allowance , but it be disappointing that those change have be accompany by cut to social security and disability benefit . I be grateful for the long - overdue investment in hospital and the NHS . however , the Government must guarantee that those resource will go into our NHS and not into the pocket of private shareholder . some 4 . 2 million child be grow up in poverty and a quarter of a million people be homeless ; meanwhile , we be on the brink of an irreversible climate disaster . those crisis demand bold solution . the Government could have implement wealth taxis and close corporate tax avoidance loophole to bring about a more equal and sustainable society . instead , they have choose to bake in decade of inequality by feign regret over tough choice they do not have to make . those include keep the two - child benefit cap , cut the winter fuel allowance and increase the bus fare cap by 50 % . at the same time , the Government have commit to an additional £ 3 billion of military spending . I echo the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) on the link between housing and health . while I welcome the measure in the Budget to increase funding for housing , I be concerned that they do not go nearly far enough . real security be when everybody have a decent home , and we will solve the housing crisis only with rent control and a huge council house building programme . the Government will be aware that plan to freeze the local housing allowance will have a detrimental impact on hundred of thousand of family struggle in temporary housing or face eviction . accord to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , if the LHA remain frozen over this Parliament , private renter on housing benefit will on average be about £ 700 bad off . if the Government be serious about tackle child poverty and homelessness , they need to start by end the LHA freeze and link housing cost to housing support . while I welcome the commitment from the Deputy Prime Minister to deliver 5 , 000 new social and affordable home , that be only scratch the surface . on the winter fuel allowance , do the hon . Member agree that freezing pensioner will only increase the need for NHS resource when hospital be already struggle ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I completely agree that there be a direct link between pensioner poverty and demand on the NHS . the Government ' s proposal in the Budget do not go nearly far enough . the situation be simply not sustainable . the ability to provide the bulk of its citizen with a roof over their head be a litmus test for the success of any state . unfortunately , that test have be fail by successive government . without more radical measure to increase the stock of affordable housing , I fear it be a test that this Government will also fail . this Budget deliver the large scottish block grant in the history of devolution , deliver a total of £ 47 . 7 billion for Scotland ' s budget in 2025 - 26 , include the £ 3 . 4 billion boost to spend through the Barnett formula next year , which come on top of the £ 1 . 5 billion this year . our Chancellor have provide £ 2 . 8 billion extra for day - to - day spending and £ 610 million for capital investment , include £ 20 million for my home town through the Clydebank town fund and ten of million for Dumbarton ' s regeneration . this Budget mark the end of the era of austerity , raise much - need fund for our public service in Scotland . it keep our promise to Scotland and to my constituent in West Dunbartonshire , and demonstrate the value of Scotland ' s have vote Labour in July . the historic funding must be use by the Scottish Government to fix the NHS and support our public service . the SNP Government be now out of excuse . they must show the same level of ambition for our NHS in Scotland as this Government . they must not squander this opportunity with their usual financial mismanagement . no more excuse ; no more blame game . the SNP Government be face a make - or - break chance to revive Scotland ' s fail NHS , where one in six scot be stick on a hospital waiting list . the hon . Gentleman be make a very good speech outline the scottish context . should the SNP Government not repair the damage do to maternity service in the north of Scotland , where mother have to make a more than 200 - mile round trip to give birth ? they should put thing right in the north and all part of Scotland . yes , I agree . the SNP be not here this afternoon , but this Budget mean that the Scottish Government be receive more per person than equivalent spending in the rest of the UK . the SNP just need to get well at spend it . scot can see that the SNP have lose its way and be out of idea , and that its Ministers be incompetent and as bad with their money as they be for tax we more and give we less . figure release today for the past month reveal the scale of the crisis : the Scottish NHS be flag on multiple front . the number of operation cancel due to hospital capacity rise to the high level since August 2022 . delay to patient discharge rise to an average of 29 day , while thousand of scot attend a & E wait more than eight hour to be see . there be 50 , 000 few planned operation in the past 12 month than at the same point before the pandemic . the new money that the Government announce in the Budget should not be divert by the Scottish Government . they must spend every penny of the extra NHS cash on Scotland ' s ail health service , and use the boost of billion of pound to cut waiting list . the message should be clear : they have the power and they now have the money , so no more excuse and no more hiding place . they must get the money to the frontline and get the one in six scot off the hospital waiting list . this be a very good Budget for Scotland , but only if , finally , the Scottish Government be able to display a semblance of economic competence . but not for too long — just until 2026 , when the people of Scotland get to complete the job of get rid of both the fail Tories and the SNP . after more than a decade of conservative chaos , there be no doubt that the Government inherit a challenging task . we all recognise the enormous responsibility face by the Chancellor this autumn . her announcement of an increase in NHS investment be welcome , but my concern be that the Budget ignore the back door of the NHS . the crisis in our NHS can not and will not be fix until the Government fix social care too . my inbox , like those of many member across the House , have be fill by GP practice concern about the increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution . with no shareholder and no ability to increase price , some of my local GPs have say that they fear layoff will be the only option . without an exemption from the tax rise , the vast majority of health and care provider that be private company , include hospice and pharmacy , will not benefit , far threaten the integrity of the Government ' s commitment to the NHS . it be more important than ever that we protect our beloved local business , which be the backbone of our local economy . they cover everything from hospitality to accounting , to local shop run by work people , such as Threads and Oui in Harpenden , Fancy that of Tring , Graze Life and the Oakman Group , which be very worried about the pre - profit money it will have to raise and what that mean for the business . along with fellow Liberal Democrats , I be therefore call for well business support , include fair reform of business rate . our local community rely on our council , which deliver social care and local service . they need the fund to deliver those service . our local community be also feed by our farm . already work on tight and tight margin , they now face sell off land and break up their farmland . Jamie from Sandridgebury farm be already contemplate how he will have to break up his family farm and what that mean for his two daughter , as well as for the food he grow for our community . the Conservatives leave our economy in a mess , but we have an opportunity to turn thing around . I call for well support for all our healthcare provider , but also for our small and medium - sized enterprise . the Budget must support our community . that include our local business , our local government , our local farmer and , of course , at the heart of it , our health and social care deliverer . this Budget start to deliver the change our country vote for , the change our country need . it be a tough budget that make the right choice to start repair the foundation of our economy , while invest in our public service where investment be most need . after 14 year of the last government , it be now clear that the adult be back in charge . look at the attendance , or lack thereof , on the Opposition Benches , it be very clear that the Tory party call a general election , hand back the key and run away from any responsibility . however , this Government will fix our NHS and invest in our hospital — something that be badly need in my constituency of Southend West and Leigh . thing be so bad in my local hospital that just recently , hospital staff have be ban from order new uniform as part of new cost - cut measure . exclude cancer pathway , Southend University hospital have average waiting time of 29 week for out - patient appointment and 26 week for general surgery . they be sometimes much long . that be simply unacceptable , as people wait suffer in pain . this Budget will start to fix that . there be huge gap in local mental health provision . I be sure member agree that we need parity of care , with as much emphasis on mental health as physical health . for young people in need of mental health service in my constituency , the aim be for assessment within 12 week and treatment within 18 week , but the reality be that waiting list can be as long as 18 to 24 month . practitioner , such as the Lighthouse in my constituency , be work very hard to bring those number down , so it be really pleasing to see include in the Budget , on top of the money commit , the £ 26 million for new mental health crisis centre . family wait for assessment for special educational need be be let down , so I be delighted to see the £ 1 billion uplift in SEN provision . new funding for the NHS , mental health service and SEN provision will provide much need help to my constituent . without our health , our nation will struggle to rebuild our economy , so the long - term plan for the NHS will develop as a result of the current consultation and through our 10 - year plan for national renewal . the day of stick head in the sand be over — hope be not a plan . I thank the Chancellor and her team for put in place a credible plan to fix our NHS . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) . I welcome this Budget , which mark a significant milestone for Wales : the large funding boost since devolution . I be especially proud of the £ 25 million allocate for the continue safe maintenance of coal tip , which be vital for place such as the Bersham Colliery spoil tip in Rhostyllen , in my constituency , make famous by the Hollywood - style " Wrexham " sign . the Budget be testament to the positive impact of two Labour Governments work together . we should never forget the 14 year of brutal austerity under the Tories , whose legacy have leave vital service in disarray , record low living standard , and more than 4 million child live in poverty . after such devastation , investment be not just welcome but essential . food security be one of the most pressing issue that the UK face . the Tories fail our farmer , as be clear from dodgy trade deal with New Zealand and Australia , delay in post - Brexit payment scheme and the closure of 12 , 000 farm , leave many struggle financially . invest properly in farming and address farmer ' concern be essential for the industry ' s future , so I welcome the £ 60 million allocate to the farming recovery fund in order to support farmer affect by last winter ' s extreme wet weather . I also welcome the £ 208 million to protect against threat such as peste des petit ruminant , bluetongue and other disease that blight the life of our farmer , and the £ 5 billion for the farming budget over the next two year . inequality in our society be stark . raise the national living wage by 6 . 7 % to £ 12 . 21 per hour be a key step forward , benefit about 70 , 000 minimum wage worker in Wales . keep petrol duty freeze be crucial for those of we in rural area , where affordable fuel be essential to daily life , work and access essential service . I know that that be a major concern for many of my constituent before the Budget . our Labour Government will invest in public service , particularly the NHS and school , which be devolve but vital . I wholeheartedly welcome the £ 2 . 3 billion increase in the core school budget , which will enable the recruitment of 6 , 500 new teacher and enhance school maintenance . as a dyslexic and dyscalculic child who be illiterate until the age of 11 , I know that the Government ' s commitment of £ 1 billion to special educational need and disability will make a real difference . I wonder whether the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree that those on the deplete Government Benches continue to paint a picture show that the last 14 year of Tory neglect be not a choice . that be make even more delulu by attack on the change that this Government have make to fix the foundation and improve the life of people in constituency up and down the country . this shameful attempt to rewrite history would be laughable if it be not so tragic for the people who live in my city . the Budget be the first step in a different and positive direction . I be proud to say that the Government have seize the opportunity to create real change for my constituent . there be 9 , 600 minimum wage worker in my constituency , a number proportionally high than the national average , and many work in our public sector . increase the national living wage to £ 12 . 21 per hour be a huge win for those low - pay worker , and the increase to £ 10 for those age between 18 and 20 give young people a decent chance to start their independent life . More than 12 , 300 unpaid carer be fight to provide vital care in my city . Unpaid carer deserve our unwavering support , and I be proud that we be raise the threshold for carer ' s allowance , which will provide a vital boost for many family . the review of the carer ' s allowance overpayment scandal that we see under the last Conservative Government be very much overdue , and I be pleased that we be launch it . some 63 , 000 people be wait to start treatment at Portsmouth ' s NHS trust , with almost half wait more than 18 week . the injection of spending into the NHS represent a real - term growth rate of 4 % . the additional funding will support the delivery of extra appointment , reduce waiting time and deliver an 18 - week target , which be vital for my constituent . I be look forward to host the first joint NHS public consultation in December with my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , and to feed our city ' s view into the 10 - year plan for the NHS . in Portsmouth North , 6 , 730 people be on universal credit . our reform to universal credit will mean the introduction of a fair debt repayment rate . we be bring the rate down from 25 % to 15 % , which will help so many people . as a teacher , it would be remiss of I not to mention the 43 , 000 child in my city who be in education . we be bring in breakfast club to ensure that child be set up every day , and remove the vat exemption and business rate relief for private school , so that 94 % of the kid in our country get money into their school . we be recruit teacher and , crucially , support 14 , 000 child with SEND in my city . I welcome this budget , not because it solve all the problem in the country — we have hear a lot about they this afternoon , and they would be impossible to solve quickly — but because it begin to do so . in many way , this Budget be a reset moment for our politic and our economic . it be a deliberate choice to invest in growth and essential public service , not least the NHS , in St Helens North and across the country — just as the austerity that we suffer under previous government be a deliberate choice . as Liz Truss ' s Chancellor be report as say last week , Labour be deal with the Conservatives ' mess . we have that responsibility because people vote for change in July . they want a change in direction , because the consequence of the choice make by previous government be clear for we all to see : the funding black hole in social care , the crisis in the SEND system , our crumble state school , road fall apart , council go bankrupt , and the crisis in our prison and the justice system . in St Helens North , the number of child live in poverty rise by more than 50 % between 2015 and 2023 . be that good for business ? this be the mess that we be clean up . of course , we can not talk about the mess that we be clean up without talk about public health and the crisis in the NHS . the recently publish report by Lord Darzi spell it out : life expectancy increase under the last Labour Government , but plateaue during the 2010 under the Tories . that be not a coincidence . the absolute and relative proportion of our life spend in ill health have increase . that be not a coincidence . to quote the Darzi report summary , " many of the social determinant of health — such as poor quality housing , low income , insecure employment — have move in the wrong direction over the past 15 year with the result that the NHS have face rise demand for healthcare from a society in distress . " be that good for business ? this Budget provide the large cash injection into the NHS outside covid since 2010 , but the Government also recognise the need for reform . I encourage everyone in St Helens North and across the country to take part in the large nhs consultation in its history , which be happen right now . last month I meet north - west ambulance worker , and there be frustration , anger , heartbreak and exhaustion because of the circumstance in which they be be force to work . that be just one of the mess that we have to clear up . it will not all be fix overnight , but with this Budget and other measure , include the Employment Rights Bill and the introduction of GB Energy , GB Railways , renter ' right and more , we be take big step towards clear up the mess that the Conservatives leave behind . a healthy economy mean healthy people , but let we not forget that , conversely , healthy people be the backbone of a healthy economy . this Budget be work its way through some very difficult circumstance and deal with problem that have be ignore for far too long . problem in our economy have have an adverse effect on the health of the people we be here to serve , so I be hearten to see that this Budget be aware of the need not only to get the financial engine room run again , but to rebuild the foundation of good health for this country . this Budget rightly prioritise the NHS , with vital capital investment and increase spending . I know that many of my constituent and those across the country will welcome the announcement of funding for mental health crisis centre , provide service that be so desperately need . that will go some way towards take the pressure off our A & E department . I would like to highlight a couple of the investment make beyond our NHS that be so vital for our health . I be delighted to see investment in give all child the good start in life , with spending on early year and family service rise to £ 8 billion . the £ 30 million expansion of breakfast club will ensure that child start their day with a meal and positive social time . I have see how much value be add when the catering be integrate into a school ' s wide vision for health , wellbee and pastoral care . I be also encourage to see that the debilitate cut to local government funding in recent year have finally stop , and that a plan have be put in place to support essential provider of frontline service in continue their vital work . as well as the 3 . 2 % real - term increase in local authority core spending power , the additional £ 500 million go into the affordable home programme will kick - start an increase in decent , affordable social housing and finally begin to address some of the unacceptable emergency accommodation that our constituent find themselves in while wait far too long on our housing waiting list . as we move forward and build on the healthy economic foundation outline in this Budget , I look forward to consider the reform that will be need for social care . the £ 600 million grant funding for it be a good starting point for the necessary work to come . similarly , the public health grant in local government must be protect and fund properly in order for we to move sustainably from treatment to prevention . we know that our public service and NHS can not be fix overnight , but I congratulate the Chancellor on deliver a Budget that have give we a firm marker of intention and direction . the measure of our collective health and wellbeing be not GDP per capita alone . we can rebuild the service that we need to lead healthy and productive life , and with this Labour Government , we will all thrive . the last few year have be incredibly difficult for our constituent and our national health service . public service be on their knee , a £ 22 billion black hole have be leave in our public finance and there have be real - term fall in income and living standard . the Conservatives , as we have hear today , be still labour under the fantasy that no problem exist , and that they be sit in opposition — well , a few of they be sit over there — through no fault of their own , but through some sort of electoral dysfunction . they be entirely unwilling to say what they would do to fix the broken service and our NHS , and what they would do to close the financial gap that they have leave . I be pleased that we have take the tough and necessary decision on spending and taxation to put our NHS back on a firm footing — tough decision that any Chancellor and any Government would have to make . the Conservatives have continually shirk those tough decision . this Budget ensure that no one will see high taxis on their payslip ; there be no increase to employee national insurance , income tax or vat . those be promise that I make to my constituent when go door to door , and promise that we be keep today . the necessary tax rise in this Budget rightly fall on those with the broad shoulder ; we be ask the wealthy and large business to pay their fair share to help rebuild our nhs and public realm . this Budget be fundamentally pro - growth , and be focus on investment in our country ' s future . we have hear conservative Members today continually make the tired argument that it be the private sector alone that drive growth . as member have rightly say , economic growth rely on a strong public and private sector . without a function public sector , business can not thrive . if train be late , people can not get to work . if staff be off sick , they can not pay tax and can not contribute . if worker do not have the necessary skill , productivity and growth stall . this budget address those issue and those determinant of growth , and that be why I be proud to support it today . over 14 year , the Conservatives have starve our NHS of vital funding , but today we be talk about a vital £ 25 billion investment in our NHS — the big investment in it since the last Labour Government , exclude the covid year . this investment be transformative . I hope that some of this spending will be make available to primary care and to community pharmacy — the desperately underfunded front door of our NHS . I be really pleased that in recent day we have hear a commitment from the Front Bench health team of a furth £ 2 . 5 million to support the development of proposal for Hillingdon hospital . I be sure that I will return to that issue and discuss it with the team in the day ahead . in summary , this Budget deliver on our promise on tax , on growth and on the NHS , and I be delighted to support it . as we all know too well , politic be about choice . the choice in this Budget be clear : five more year of the same fail conservative policy and more austerity , or change with a Labour Government who will invest in Britain ' s future so that we can fix the NHS and rebuild our country . the Chancellor ' s tough but fair choice will benefit so many people across the country , include in my constituency , by deliver on tax commitment to help fund our vital public service . this include end both the non - dom tax loophole and vat tax break for private school so that everyone pay their fair share . I be pleased to see the £ 11 . 2 billion investment in our education system to give every child the good start in life by increase per - pupil funding in real term , provide £ 1 billion in additional support for the SEND system and enable the roll - out of free breakfast club in thousand of primary school . for far too long , work people have pay the price for the previous Government ' s failure . whereas the previous Conservative Government focus on funnel pound into the pocket of their friend through dodgy covid contract , this Labour Government have choose to put pound in the pocket of work people . the increase in the national living wage to £ 12 . 21 be therefore very welcome in my constituency , where over 3 , 000 people in Luton alone will be well off as a result . as well as the boost to people ' s wage , I be delighted that we will deliver the big boost to affordable housing over this Parliament , with a £ 500 million boost to the affordable home programme to build up to 5 , 000 additional affordable home . reduce the discount on the right - to - buy scheme and enable council in England to keep all the receipt generate by sale will also deliver on our commitment to protect exist council house stock . of course , the NHS be the cornerstone of our public service . investment in education , job and home will be fruitless if we do not have a healthy population . our healthcare system be push to the brink under the previous Government , with waiting list for vital scan and operation stretch to month or even year , 24 hour - plus wait in A & E , and the bad staffing crisis in history . the creation of the NHS be the pride and joy of a post - war Labour Government , and it be a Labour Government who will rebuild it once again by invest an extra £ 25 . 6 billion over the next two year . the 40 , 000 extra elective appointment per week will mean reduce waiting time . where previous Budgets feel like read line from the same tired script , I can say with pride that this Labour Government ' s first Budget really be the start of a new chapter in make Britain well off . it support well wage , ensure that the NHS be there for people when they need it , and invest in build home , infrastructure , road and railway to create wealth and opportunity for all . that be the power of a Labour Government . this Budget will make a real difference to the life of my constituent . it be design to fix the foundation of our economy , to turn the page on the fail policy of the previous Government , and to deliver the change that people across the country and in my constituency vote for . as hon . member on both side of the House have make clear , we have all see , experience and hear about the decline of the last 14 year . the economic failure of the previous Government leave our constituent bad off than they be in 2010 . every day , family in Thurrock tell I about the challenge they face . public service performance be at a historic low , and behind every statistic be the real - world experience of one of my constituent , whether it be the tragic loss of life while wait to see a doctor follow heart surgery , the learning - disabled man I meet who have resort to pull out his own tooth because he could not see an NHS dentist , or the parent desperate to receive a diagnosis for their child ' s special educational need so that they can start receive the support they need . nowhere be the Conservatives ' austerity and broken promise more obvious than in our NHS . my constituent face some of the most acute gp shortage in the country , with each of our local surgery care for an average of nearly 3 , 500 patient . People continue to struggle with NHS dentistry , with only 31 % of adult in Thurrock have see an NHS dentist in the last two year . nearly a third of patient at the local trust have wait more than six week for a diagnostic test . I welcome the commitment to provide an extra £ 22 . 6 billion of funding for day - to - day spending for the health service , to cut waiting time and deliver 40 , 000 extra appointment every week . the commitment to more capital funding can not come soon enough . I look forward to work with Ministers to ensure that benefit be feel in Thurrock , particularly in area such as Tilbury , where health inequality be feel more keenly . on a personal note , I welcome the commitment in the Budget to deliver for unpaid carer . from my own experience as an unpaid carer , I know that the increase in the amount that carer can earn without lose their carer ' s allowance , as well as the commitment to review the current cliff edge of carer ' s allowance , will be welcome by those who do the vital work of care for their love one . for so many people , this Budget will tackle the challenge our country face . our party found the national health service and bring it back from the brink after year of Tory neglect . on the campaign trail , I tell my constituent that we do it before and we will do it again . this Budget deliver on that promise , and I be proud to support it . the Budget deliver a game - change announcement for my community : the news that Frimley Park hospital will be rebuild , as it be one of the seven hospital severely affect by RAAC . that be such welcome news and will make a real difference in Aldershot and Farnborough in the year ahead . Frimley be my local hospital . I have spend my fair share of night there and have see at first hand the incredible work NHS staff do in a hospital that , in part , be literally crumble around they . I thank the Chancellor , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , and the wide health team for listen to the argument my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) and I put forward to prioritise Frimley as part of the new hospital programme . this vital project be in jeopardy because of the truly dreadful deficit inherit from the previous Government . my community need a new hospital in the right location — one that work for resident from Aldershot to Blackwater and Yateley . I will continue to campaign for that hospital until the day it be build . this Budget , with its investment in our NHS , will bring down waiting list , lie the foundation for our 10 - year health plan and make a welcome investment in our economic future , because a healthy nation be a wealthy nation . if we can help the 2 . 8 million people currently unable to work because they be on long - term sick leave , many of they stick on waiting list , that will not only help we grow economically , but allow more of our neighbour to live their life to the full . let I share the example of Gloria Cornwall , who come to my surgery shortly after I be elect . she live in agony , in desperate need of a hip replacement , struggle to get an NHS appointment for five long year . in early October , she email I , delight to have finally be give a date in November for the operation , but sadly it be too late . she pass away from natural cause just 12 day ago . from the brief time I spend with Gloria , I could tell she be a very special lady . she be the linchpin of her family and be so proud of her grandchild . Gloria ' s story be a powerful reminder of the life that , at well , be not be fully fulfil and , at worst , be be lose because people can not get the healthcare they need . I know how much hope that appointment letter give Gloria just before she die , so when I hear that my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be bring forward 40 , 000 more elective nhs appointment each week , it be case like Gloria ' s that I will remember . the Chancellor ' s Budget last week finally end the conservative party ' s austerity . it be a Budget that fix the foundation to deliver real change , by fix the NHS , cut hospital waiting list , reform public service and rebuild our country . as the Chancellor say , this Budget be about " investment , investment , investment " . this Labour Government be invest over £ 25 . 5 billion over two year in the NHS . that will cut waiting time , so that patient do not have to wait long than 18 week from referral to consultant - lead treatment ; provide 40 , 000 extra appointment ; put in place new surgical hub and diagnostic scanner , building capacity for more than 30 , 000 additional procedure and over 1 . 25 million diagnostic test ; and provide new radiotherapy machine to improve cancer treatment . we be invest in NHS technology and digital , to run essential service and to drive NHS productivity improvement , free up staff time . we be provide a dedicated capital fund to deliver upgrade to GP surgery , boost productivity and enable the delivery of more appointment . we be invest £ 26 million to open new mental health crisis centre . at last , we have a Government who be committed to tackle the root cause of mental health problem and to support people to remain in work and to return to work . we be support social care through at least £ 600 million of new grant funding to be able to increase local government spending , alongside an £ 86 million increase to the disabled facility grant to support more adaptation to home for those with social care need , thereby reduce hospitalisation and prolong independence . this government be cut down barrier to opportunity for all by increase the core school budget by £ 2 . 3 billion , support the recruitment of 6 , 500 teacher in key subject and tackle retention issue , to prepare our child for life , work and the future . we be provide a £ 1 billion increase to improve SEND provision and to improve outcome and an additional £ 300 million for further education to ensure that young people be learn and develop the skill they need to succeed in the modern labour market , which will help the City of Wolverhampton college in my constituency . we be increase investment in child ' s social care reform , and it be great to see a real - term funding increase for local government spending . we be take all of these decision , while also take tough decision on spending and welfare , eliminate fraud and error in the welfare system — order . I call Baggy Shanker . it be a privilege to contribute to today ' s debate on the first Labour Budget deliver in more than 15 year . let I start by welcome the unwavering focus of the Chancellor and her team on improve the life of work people by invest in our public service . this Government have not duck the difficult decision , as the previous Government do , but confront they . we have commit to rebuild our country and its public service , prioritise the life and livelihood of work people in do so . that be why I take immense pride in rise to speak today to discuss this Labour Budget . have serve since 2008 as a Derby City councillor , and with my wife work in the NHS , we have see at first hand the impact of Tory austerity , which , as Lord Darzi have highlight , cause our NHS to face its most austere decade and have push many local authority to the brink . in my constituency , the Florence Nightingale community hospital deliver critical health and care service to Derby resident , range from in - patient rehabilitation to palliative care . service such as those provide by the Florence Nightingale Community Hospital must be protect . that be why I be delighted to hear the Chancellor announce the large real - term growth in day - to - day nhs spending outside of covid since 2010 . with the record funding announce for our NHS and the investment across our public service , there be much to welcome in the Budget . although it mark the start of a welcome new chapter , deliver long - term stability and much - need change , it be important that work people feel the positive impact of this Labour Government . continue the focus on public service , I turn to the matter of the settlement for local authority in the Budget . as in every constituency , our council play an important role in provide for family and individual who be face specific challenge , whether that be in social care , housing or the availability of SEND provision . give that crucial role , and the cost and demand pressure that be not unique to Derby but face council across the UK , I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement of an additional £ 1 . 3 billion of funding . I close by again welcome the Chancellor ' s Budget , which last week take responsible if difficult decision to redress the Tory budget deficit and begin rebuild Britain . for too long , our economy have not work for West Bromwich — low wage , low growth , broken public service , family unable to make end meet and our huge potential go unfulfilled . that be the legacy of the Conservative Government , and that be why the country vote for change . last week , finally , we see a budget that turn the page . I would like to thank the Chancellor for this historic Budget and talk about three thing : how it look after the finance of family in West Brom , how it get our public service back on their foot , and how it will turbocharge growth in the west midland . last week , Labour ' s Budget look after ordinary family in West Brom . during the election , we promise that we would not put up taxis on work people — a promise that we have keep . carer be be trap in poverty by the weekly earning limit , so we have raise it . young people be do the same work for less pay , so we be change that . perhaps most significantly of all , 12 , 000 worker on the minimum wage in Sandwell will receive a £ 1 , 400 pay rise next year . that be the difference that the Labour Budget make . the Budget be also for public service and , critically , our NHS . in West Brom , our GP satisfaction rate be 15 % below the national average . we have 80 , 000 people wait for a hospital appointment and , absolutely scandalously , life expectancy in my area have be fall over the last 10 year . the Conservatives spend a decade destroy the NHS and now it fall to we to rebuild it . last week , our Labour Chancellor give the NHS a cash injection that will deliver 40 , 000 extra appointment a week , state - of - the - art new equipment , and support for our NHS staff , who have be push to breaking point . all that be futile without reform , and early the Secretary of State set out how we will achieve that . but the people of West Bromwich know that if we want a well functioning and modern NHS , we have to pay for it . we have make difficult decision to do that . I finish by highlight that the Budget be fantastic for the west midland . it will support manufacture job in the automotive industry , which be so important to the region . it secure the future of hs2 to Euston because people do not want to get on at Birmingham and off at Old Oak Common . it fund the extension of the metro to Brierley Hill and give our Mayor , Richard Parker , a funding settlement for good bus service and local project that will make a difference . under a Labour Government , West Bromwich be go to see the change that my constituent vote for . I be proud that my party have deliver a Budget that fix the foundation , protect ordinary people and rebuild our NHS . my constituency have suffer from the previous Government ' s failure to fix our NHS . my constituent be promise a rebuild of the Royal Berkshire hospital . that amount to nothing . the Conservatives fail to fund the programme ; they do not allocate the proper amount of money and they dither and delay . I therefore welcome this Government ' s extra funding in the Budget for the NHS and its infrastructure . however , they need to make clear how they will manage a backlog of maintenance repair amount to £ 102 million for the Royal Berkshire hospital , on top of upward of £ 1 . 3 billion require to build a new hospital . the trust could start construction as early as 2028 , but that require urgent confirmation that the funding will go ahead . do the Minister agree that a hospital soon rather than later will deliver well outcome for patient ? I do not blame the Government for the financial mess that they have inherit from the Conservatives , but when it come to primary care , the Budget have take one step forward but two step back . I simply do not understand why , at a time when Wokingham have an increase gp - to - patient ratio and a grow population , the Chancellor have decide to levy a tax on job through the national insurance employer contribution . that will impact GP care provision and leave our overstretched service struggle even more . I be campaign for the community of Arborfield to have their own dedicated GP practice . my constituent be cry out for change so that they can get the service that they deserve . do the Minister agree that GPs in Wokingham and across England should be protect from the national insurance hike ? if that do not happen , we risk lose their service . will he engage with my local integrate care board to impress upon it the need to fund a gp surgery in the community of Arborfield ? in July , I be proud to be elect the new Member of Parliament for Kensington and bayswater — a fantastic community but one that have , like so much of the country , suffer 14 year of low growth , stagnant wage and crumble public service . we have some of the high health inequality in the country . the major local hospital have the large high - risk repair backlog of any NHS trust in England . much of my casework involve people in substandard temporary accommodation battle damp and mould and slow repair , and victim of no - fault eviction and overcrowding . what compound that dreadful inheritance be false hope . the fantasy new hospital programme tell people in my community that they would have a brand new St Mary ' s hospital , as well as overhaul of Hammersmith and Charing Cross hospital , but it be never budget for . instead of take responsibility , the Conservatives overspent , avoid the tough choice and sign off cheque that they know would never have to be cash . I welcome the Budget , and especially the investment to meet our election commitment to reduce waiting list and expand surgical capacity and diagnostic hub . I also look forward to the 10 - year plan for the NHS , and I hope that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury will set out in the spending review plan to build a new St Mary ' s and invest for the long - term to get people healthy , improve productivity and deliver an nhs that we can all be proud of . of course , our housing crisis be directly link to challenge in our NHS , so I welcome the investment in the affordable home plan and the warm home plan , and the reduction in right - to - buy discount with council keep receipt . the damn National Audit Office this week lay bare the cost of inaction on build safety , so I welcome the Chancellor ' s support for speed up the remedial work . the NAO say that , on current trend , the last building will not be fix until 2037 — 20 year after Grenfell . that be unacceptable , and I look forward to the Government ' s plan to speed up the remedial work . trust in politic have collapse to an all - time low after the covid vip lane , the lobby scandal , and the Liz Truss mini - Budget , for which my constituent have still not receive an apology . I be sorry for interrupt my hon . friend at the very last minute , but he raise the important issue of the rebuilding of St Mary ' s . may I suggest to he that that should come alongside the full refurbishment of Charing Cross hospital and Hammersmith hospital , as they all form part of the Imperial College healthcare NHS trust ? I thank my constituency neighbour for that point . the Imperial College trust have the high major repair backlog of any NHS estate in the country , so we hope that it will , on merit , be a strong candidate in the Secretary of State ' s review of the new hospital programme . as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) would know from our work together on open government and international transparency , I welcome the Chancellor ' s focus on tackle corruption , fraud , tax avoidance and waste ; the ending of the non - dom tax regime ; the additional guardrail to ensure that public investment be well spend ; and the appointment of a covid corruption commissioner to uncover which company use a national emergency to line their own pocket . taxpayer want that money back . four month ago , this Government be elect with a mandate for change . the Budget mark the end of the short - term cycle of chaos and mismanagement , and the start of a serious plan to build a fair and more prosperous Britain . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this Budget reject 14 year of Tory austerity for public service and instead begin a process of investment and reform to NHS and social care . the 4 % increase to day - to - day spending , and a cash injection of over £ 25 billion into the NHS over two year , will make an immediate impact to improve patient experience . this Budget begin to make good on Labour ' s election promise to get the NHS back on its foot and to address the issue lay bare in Lord Darzi ' s damn report , which set out so clearly the mess leave by the conservative party : the high waiting time on record and the low public satisfaction . I also welcome the much - need capital investment to ensure that RAAC - infest Airedale hospital , which serve my constituent , get funding for a new hospital . with Labour , promise make be promise keep . but the money be not enough : we need to change the NHS so that it be more focused on improve health , with more care deliver in the community and close to home . those change will be set out in the 10 - year plan for the NHS in the spring , and I welcome the fact that everyone will have the opportunity to contribute their idea . Change mean spread good practice ; example include Grange Park gp surgery in my constituency . I be pleased to show the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care this great community - centre general practice , which deliver continuity for patient , group therapy session such as singe for lung health and on - site counselling . invest in primary care and community health service be vital to a strong nhs , but as the Secretary of State recognise , we also need to deliver with social care . local authority have seek to provide social care in the context of severe budget cut impose over 14 year by the conservative party . the Chancellor ' s Budget provide a £ 1 . 3 billion uplift to local authority budget , include £ 600 million of new grant funding for social care . that money be hugely welcome and much need , as be the increase in the national living wage , which will lift thousand of care worker out of poverty . however , many non - profit care provider be already on the brink after 14 year of cut to social care , and may be force to hand back contract if their high cost be not reflect in the fee pay by local authority . I urge Ministers to explore those challenge with care provider and local authority commissioner to ensure we have a strong foundation for our national care service . it be right that we ask those with the broad shoulder to pay their fair share in order to address the crisis in public service . I be confident that this Labour Government can and will restore the NHS , make it a service we can once again be proud of . that be why I support this Budget . this Budget represent a huge step towards restore the vibrancy and potential of my constituency . the commitment in this Budget will support our hospital and health service , revitalise trade and hospitality , and knit the community close together . over the past 14 year , our public service have be neglect and the hospitality and retail industry have be unsupported . that be why I be so proud that the Labour Government be work to fix the foundation and reform our public service at their very root . this Budget invest £ 25 . 6 billion in the NHS over two year , which will cut waiting time by create an extra 40 , 000 elective appointment a week so that the NHS will be there when we need it . I know how important this be in Southend East and Rochford , where hospital and health worker be work hard to serve their community . the business , restaurant and bar that be integral to Southend East and Rochford ' s local offer will be please by the measure announce in this Budget — as someone who have run business in that sector for over 24 year , I know how important it be . the Government be choose to protect small business by increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 and expand that allowance to all eligible employer . this Labour Government be make business rate fair to protect our high street and be permanently introduce low rate for retail , hospitality and leisure — as many as 6 , 380 microbusinesse in the Southend city council area stand to benefit from those change . these be step that will deliver the change that our community deserve and regenerate our local economy . finally , this Labour Government be increase the national minimum wage to £ 12 . 21 per hour — — an increase of 6 . 7 % — which will serve to revitalise the hospitality and retail sector . the Low Pay Commission estimate that 54 % of all job pay at or below the minimum wage be in retail , hospitality , cleaning and maintenance occupation . the worker in those industry have be overlook for too long . labour ' s Budget put those worker back on the agenda , with more money in their pocket at the end of the month . I welcome the action of this Labour Government to support essential service and equip our leisure and retail industry with the tool for the future . the Budget turn a page on the last 14 year and begin to create the condition for an area such as Southend East and Rochford to thrive . I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as we approach Remembrance weekend , I would like to draw attention in this health debate to the excellent work that the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine do in Birmingham . in July , the people of Birmingham Northfield vote for change . it be a vote for economic stability and investment in public service after 14 year of chaos , 14 year of austerity , and 14 year of run down our school and hospital . this Budget be deliver that change . I welcome the big increase in NHS funding in 20 year , link to service improvement . we be a young city , but one in 10 people in Birmingham be on an NHS waiting list . some of my constituent have be wait for year for lifesave treatment ; some of they wait for too long . this be the sort of investment that will make a difference that people can feel , and that be a credit to the Ministers on the Front Bench today . the investment in school building and equipment be welcome . it be especially important for the project to rebuild Green Meadow primary school and King Edward VI Balaam Wood academy , which be commit to under the school rebuilding programme , but which face rise construction cost . I also welcome the wide investment in education , particularly in SEND and further education . other hon . member have mention the important commitment that have be make to the West Midlands combine authority . that be excellent news for the region as a whole and money that can be invest in well housing and well transport service , alongside the additional money for social care and road maintenance in local government . I look forward to see Birmingham ' s allocation , ahead of a tough local government budget - set process next year . as a trade union official , I be proud to represent care and NHS worker , but I be ashamed of the condition in which they have to work for too long . I feel that same sense of shame at the state to which the Conservative party reduce our public service . this be a Budget for investment in health and social care . it turn the page on year of failure and it set the long - term certainty that business need . I hope that it will be carry overwhelmingly tomorrow . I start by declare that my brother and his wife be both NHS doctor , and I be incredibly proud of they . the Budget begin the work to undo a decade of recklessness and neglect by the Conservatives , who leave our nhs uncared for , our school crumble and carer unsupported . it will fix the foundation of our economy , build the growth we need to invest in public service and end 14 year of Tory austerity . with this Budget , my right hon . friend the Chancellor have put forward a bold , tough vision to deliver on our manifesto promise of change — £ 25 . 7 billion over two year for the NHS to slash waiting time , with an extra 40 , 000 elective appointment a week , and £ 2 billion commit to technology to begin a serious transformation towards digital healthcare . Labour Members understand the need to fund our NHS properly , but we also understand that after 14 year of neglect , the NHS be badly in need of reform . we can not cure 14 year of sickness in one Budget , but with this investment , we be finally take the medicine we need . I warmly welcome the £ 1 billion investment the Chancellor be make to address the crisis in special educational need — a first step in fix a broken system . during the conservative leadership contest , the new Leader of the Opposition endorse the view that get an autism diagnosis bring " economic advantage and protection " and " well treatment or equipment " . that be a far cry from the experience of parent and child with SEND in my constituency . the Leader of the Opposition would do well to listen to the former Conservative Education Secretary , who describe the SEND system under her party as " lose , lose , lose " . the Government ' s commitment to increase SEND funding by £ 1 billion be a step towards address the crisis . it must be only the beginning of tackle this huge long - term problem . ultimately , the system need root and branch reform , but the money will start to make real , concrete difference and to break down the barrier to opportunity for many young people in Bracknell and across the country . I will briefly mention the fantastic commitment to set up a £ 44 million investment to trial a new kinship carer ' s allowance — again , that be a real contribution to solve a problem that have long be neglect . this be a Budget that invest in our NHS , in education , and in family and work people . if the opposition choose to oppose it , they need to be honest with their constituent and the british people about what that mean . oppose the Budget mean less money for our NHS , less money for our struggle SEND system , and no additional support for the kinship carer who have feel invisible for too long . the Government have choose to fix the foundation — Order . I call Dr Peter Prinsley . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the measure that the Chancellor have announce to support our NHS as we begin the enormous ask of repair the damage cause by 14 year of neglect . I absolutely commend this imaginative and transformative Budget to the House . as the first ever Labour MP for Bury St Edmunds and a consultant ear , nose and throat surgeon , I welcome the specific commitment to replace the RAAC - infest West Suffolk hospital . my ear certainly prick up when I hear that . we will see great investment too in medical research , and I welcome that . this country continue to be very proud of our amazing and historic contribution to discovery and innovation , which be certainly the good way to ensure that we find cure for many mysterious affliction . the Government have rightly emphasize the need for investment in the NHS to be accompany by reform . with reform must come value for money . I would like to bring a serious matter to attention of the House : an example of a reform which , while at first sight appear to be of benefit , be neither value for money nor the right thing to have do . I be sorry that so few of the previous team be here to listen . nhs eye surgery service be in difficulty , and I be inform that we be in danger of create ophthalmic desert , just like the dental desert familiar to we in the east of England . the last Government take their eye off the ball as cataract service be outsource to private provider , take with they the very same nhs surgeon and staff who be provide the service in the hospital . the generous tariff for the provision of cataract surgery mean that private cataract clinic , often own and run by the same surgeon , be spring up everywhere . the number of cataract operation have shoot up , and a relatively minor cataract , which be a cause of correctable visual difficulty , can be operate on within a few week by a choice of private clinic , generate annual profit of well over £ 100 million . meanwhile , NHS eye surgery department which be treat serious cause of irreversible blindness such as glaucoma and macular degeneration be in trouble , with long waiting list . they can not recruit surgeon and be struggle to survive . this be the next dentistry crisis . just as in dentistry , a reform of the contracting system be now urgent , and I urge the Government to do that . it will save million of pound and preserve NHS eye surgery service . as my ophthalmic colleague inform I , we can treat dental problem with false tooth , but false eye do not work very well . my right hon . friend the Chancellor inspire many people last week , include girl and woman . the unfortunate comment from the new Leader of the Opposition about the first Budget by a woman Chancellor be not share by the young woman I have speak to . my right hon . Friend inspire we MPs too , not merely with big - ticket item such as the core school budget go up by £ 2 . 3 billion , but with a more subtle form of inspiration about the long term . it would be more popular in the short term simply to spend money on public service , but our Government have make difficult choice , such as £ 5 . 5 billion - worth of saving and ensure that public money be spend wisely through the new office for value for money . my right hon . friend have make tough decision on tax , spending and welfare to restore our economic stability , which help my constituent . freeze the small business multipli for one year will protect more than 1 , 000 small business in Rugby constituency from inflationary bill increase . thousand of my constituent will benefit from the increase in the national minimum wage and national living wage , boost income by up to £ 1 , 400 , and 1 , 100 carer in Rugby who be in receipt of carer ' s allowance will benefit from the work limit be lift , allow they to earn more and still claim . rugby ' s 19 , 000 pensioner will see the state pension increase by 4 . 1 % with my right hon . friend the Chancellor maintain the triple lock — that be more than twice the uplift give to people receive benefit . some in my constituency have express concern about local hospital health provision . labour found the NHS — we will fix it and we will fund it . it be because of my right hon . friend ' s decision that this Government can provide an extra £ 25 . 7 billion in two year to help cut waiting time , and £ 1 . 5 billion capital funding nationally for new surgical hub and diagnostic scanner . that much - need investment could not have happen have my right hon . friend choose immediate popularity by make unfunded promise that raise perfectly legitimate hope among the public , just as the last Government do when they promise 40 new hospital without have funding stream in place . the toxic legacy of that false hope be feel by the public , and express to every one of we in our inboxe . this Chancellor , this Labour party , this Government will restore faith in the very concept that government can improve life . it would perhaps have be more popular to pretend that there be no difficult decision , only sunlit upland , or that green shoot do not require watering and that public service can improve without proper investment . but we do not seek short - term popularity . this Budget lay the foundation for long - term economic stability , growth , investment and fairness , and enable we to begin deliver much - need change to improve our constituent ' live . as we do that , we will have the opportunity to earn the trust of the public we serve . the Government have a profound duty to tackle poverty with urgency and ambition . after 14 year of Tory austerity hollow out our public service and leave our community struggle , eradicate poverty must be at the heart of the Government ' s agenda . yet the Budget fall short , and without bold action the most vulnerable in our constituency will continue to suffer . end austerity be not just about stop cut ; it be about real action to lift people out of poverty . the critical first step must be to scrap the two - child benefit cap , which unfairly punish family for have more than two child . if it remain , accord to the Resolution Foundation an additional 63 , 000 child will be in poverty by 2025 . we must scrap it immediately . we must also reverse the means - testing of winter fuel payment . no pensioner should have to choose between heating and eat in a cost of living crisis . provide warmth to those at risk should be non - negotiable for a Labour Government . the 50 % rise in bus fare cap be equally unacceptable . affordable public transport be vital for low - income family , student and those without car . increase fare deepen and entrench inequality , and hinder our climate goal . the Labour Government must ditch Tory welfare reform that will slash billion from disability benefit , push people into more severe hardship . those reform must be reject root and branch , not piecemeal . the more than 330 , 000 excess death in the past decade remind we that austerity cost live and that politics be a matter of life and death . in one of the world ' s wealthy nation , no family should be in poverty , no child should be leave hungry and no pensioner should be unable to heat their home . our response must be transformative in rebalance the economy for the many , not the few . we need a fair tax system that place the burden on those who can pay the most . a 2 % tax on asset over £ 10 million could raise £ 24 billion annually , and equalise capital gain with income rate threshold would bring in an additional £ 17 billion . those fund could truly transform our NHS , school and community . finally , we need a bold economic plan to secure our future , with a worker - lead just transition to renewable energy , create thousand of unionised job and ensure that no one be leave behind . my constituent in Coventry South and community across the UK deserve a Budget that mark the end of austerity with action not just word , and with a true commitment to end poverty . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I must apologise to the House for not make a declaration at the beginning of my speech . I be a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital , and I have a family member who have share in a health company . I apologise for not mention it at the beginning of my speech . I thank the hon . member for advance notice of his point of order . it be most definitely relevant to the debate , and his transparency be note . I should place on record that my wife be a hard - work NHS employee , and she will thank I for say that . I have today meet representative of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health , which have raise serious concern about the waiting time that child with condition such as motor neurone disease face in access community service and hospital treatment . I be hopeful that child ' s health will be target for additional resource in the Budget , because if we can tackle child ' s health early , we can help to reduce poor health in later year . I welcome the key point in the Budget , which be the recognition that increase public spending — on health , for example — benefit those on low income the most . likewise , the Budget concentrate increase in tax on the household with the high income , as it should . I have receive representation from hospice in my constituency about the increase in national insurance contribution for employer , and I urge the Chancellor to consider grant hospice an exemption , in recognition of the difficult and much - need work they do . the announcement of £ 1 billion of additional funding for SEND be to be warmly welcome , and I be keen to see how that funding will be distribute to benefit the child and family who have be struggle for so long . the announcement of compensation for victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal and the infected blood scandal be a welcome step in recognise those injustice , but I urge the Chancellor to see what similar support can be give to woman bear in the 1950 who be never properly inform about the change to their state pension age . I also recognise the £ 600 million grant funding for social care for local authority , but the entire sector urgently need reform , especially if we be to realise the Government ' s state aim of move healthcare from hospital to community . finally , I again express my concern about the decision to mean - test the winter fuel allowance . I be look forward to meet the Minister with responsibility for pension , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , tomorrow to discuss that far . I hope we can explore what far support we can give to those who be just above the pension credit threshold . there be much to welcome in this Budget , but those with the broad shoulder need to carry the heavy burden . I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate on the first Labour Budget for nearly 15 year . I must disclose that I work in the NHS for the past 22 year as a mental health nurse . as a result of the Budget , the NHS will receive the large rise in day - to - day spending outside the pandemic since the last Labour Government . the additional £ 22 . 6 billion over two year will play a major role in cut waiting time from their current unacceptably high level . we all know that money on its own will not be enough to create an NHS fit for the future , so I agree with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care that it be important that the increase investment outline in the Budget come with the necessary reform of the NHS . on that point , I be pleased to see that there will be more than £ 2 billion spend on healthcare technology and digital investment to run essential service and drive improvement in NHS productivity . I believe that will have widespread support from my former colleague work in the NHS . if we ensure that all trust have access to electronic patient record , that will not only be much well for the patient , but will increase staff productivity , free up more time to treat patient . when I pay a visit to the William Harvey hospital in the Ashford constituency in August , 19 patient be be treat in corridor . that be deeply concern , as during the summer there be supposedly less demand on the A & E department . this money will be well receive in hospital such as the William Harvey . I be pleased by the recent confirmation from the Health and Social Care Secretary that there will be more detail on the new hospital programme in the new year . I would like to make a strong case for the William Harvey and the other hospital in the East Kent hospital university NHS foundation trust . in 2019 , when Boris Johnson be Prime Minister , he promise that east Kent would get a new hospital . proposal be draw up for either a new hospital in Canterbury or upgrade facility at the William Harvey hospital and the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother hospital in Margate . despite what Boris Johnson say , last year the Conservative Government break that promise . at the time , it be report that at least £ 210 million would have to be spend over the next five year on essential improvement to hospital in east Kent just to maintain safe service . as we look to deliver an NHS fit for the future , I say to my right hon . friend the Minister that money spend patch up age building would be well invest in improve standard for patient in east Kent . I therefore hope that the proposal and promise from the previous Government can be reconsider . the choice make by the Chancellor to invest in the country ' s future and fix the broken public service leave by the Tories be a clear rejection of that party ' s fail policy , so I welcome the Budget . the Budget be a huge victory for mineworker . I be bear in a mining community , in a pit village call Bellsbank . today , sadly , coalfield community like the one I be raise in be still behind the national average on growth and prosperity . unemployment , poor health and lack of opportunity have create a legacy of deprivation in those once lively community . with that in mind , I be immensely proud to stand for election on a manifesto that promise to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , so that the people who power our country would receive a fairer pension . I be delighted that we have a Chancellor who listen to colleague and a government commit to end injustice . now , almost 700 pensioner in my constituency of Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock will receive £ 29 a week more in their pension . that be the pension uplift for 112 , 000 former mineworker across the country . the Budget protect work people in Scotland , and inject more money than ever before into our public service . the Scottish Government will need to ensure that that additional funding for public service reach the frontline , bring down waiting list in the NHS and raise attainment in our school . People in Scotland rightly expect result . the SNP be pretend that its hand be tie , and that somehow its decision do not matter , but this be not just about have more money ; it be about spend money well . the NHS in Scotland be in perpetual crisis because of the SNP Government ' s chaos , mismanagement and incompetence . after 17 year of the SNP in power in Scotland , we be leave with the reality of a two - tier health system . patient in pain be force to scrape money together to go private . over 860 , 000 patient — equivalent to one in six scot — be on an NHS waiting list for test or treatment . my sister have await a hip replacement for over 14 month . decision in the Budget mean that the Scottish Government will receive more per person than the rest of the UK . the Labour Government be commit to grow day - to - day spending on essential service , deliver 40 , 000 extra appointment a week and reduce NHS waiting list . when will we see the same ambition from the Scottish Government and the SNP ? I welcome the Government ' s commitment to fix our national health service and deliver the real change that my constituent in Northampton South vote for in July . Northampton South be home to four hospital : our general hospital ; St Andrew ' s and Berrywood hospital , which both provide fantastic mental health care provision ; and the Three Shires hospital , which be part of the Circle Health network . despite all that choice , time and again , constituent tell I that they struggle to get appointment . each week at my constituency surgery , and in my inbox , I learn of resident across Northampton South who be desperate to see a doctor or secure an appointment for much - need surgery . as their representative in this House , I have a duty to speak up for they , and to welcome the change that this Budget will bring to their life . I be particularly proud that it deliver fund for 40 , 000 additional appointment every single week . that commitment mean that more resident in Northampton will get the care they need , when they need it . that mean few day off work , less time in pain , and , more importantly , well health outcome . have join this House from the construction sector — I should declare that my team be work in the new hospital programme supply chain — I think we must be honest about the state of our NHS building . the previous Government ' s empty promise of 40 new hospital become a national embarrassment — a classic example of a headline - grab announcement that deliver little for our community . instead , this Budget deliver real , tangible investment : £ 3 . 1 billion in capital funding , include £ 1 billion to tackle the critical maintenance backlog . in Northampton , we know all too well the impact of age NHS infrastructure . Northampton general hospital and our sister hospital Kettering general have serve our community well , but be show sign of age . unlike many member here , I will not ask the Treasury for more money for my hospital ; I support my local integrate care board ' s call for major investment in Kettering , just down the road . I hope that the review of the new hospital programme , once complete , will see a positive outcome for our county . I finish by acknowledge the dedication of our NHS staff in Northampton South . the doctor , nurse , specialist , healthcare assistant , porter , cleaner , manager and administrator who keep our NHS running deserve our thank and support . this Budget give they the resource they need to do their job effectively in building that be fit for purpose , with technology that work for they , rather than against they . this Budget deliver our first step in build an NHS fit for the future . even those of we who be new to this place know to expect more communication from our constituent about what be wrong than what be right , so it be notable that I receive email of thank and congratulation from constituent last week , after the Chancellor deliver her historic Budget . stability be highly prize by people after so much chaos , and investment , especially in our NHS , be something that people have be cry out for . however , we must be honest with ourselves about the state of our NHS in east Kent and in coastal community like mine . East Thanet have be overlook for far too long . the service have have to endure the chaos and incompetence of the past 14 year , and have not be as resilient as other place to the onslaught . the director of public health in north - east Lincolnshire , Stephen Pintus , have describe people live in coastal community as " old before their time " . we need to reform the way we deliver NHS service in coastal community . investment on its own will not be enough . we need to redesign our health service to answer the question : what care do people need , where do they need it and how do they need it deliver ? my constituent have be suffer with poor NHS service for far too long . East Kent hospital university NHS foundation trust , which run the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother hospital in Margate , be rank the third bad in England for its 12 - hour wait for emergency service . its maternity service have be deem inadequate . when staff be ask , " if a friend or relative need treatment , would I be happy with their care ? " , only 45 % of staff say yes . I have people email I about their urgent care and essential appointment be delay by waiting list . People in dire need of mental healthcare be be tell to wait for month to get the help they desperately need . there be denial of continuous care due to cost and a lack of staffing — and , shockingly , poor communication and record keeping result in a cancer patient be misdiagnose . in a 2021 report by Chris Whitty entitle " Health in Coastal Communities " , he highlight the problem face by constituency such as mine , and find that they have some of the bad health outcome in England , with low life expectancy and high rate of major disease . one of the major reason for that be simply lack of access to healthcare service — both a lack of NHS service in coastal community and a lack of transport option . whatever the reason for the challenge in coastal community , we need to see reform . the extra funding the Chancellor announce last week be crucial to bring down waiting list and stop the chaos of 14 year of Tory mismanagement . the british people deliver we a mandate to fix the NHS . if do well , this reform will be transformative for the country , especially in coastal community like East Thanet . I be about to call the final Back - Bench Member . no doubt a lot of colleague who have contribute will be make their way back to the Chamber for the Front - Bench speech . I call Matt Turmaine . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . prior to be elect to this place I work in health and social care , so it have be interesting to hear some of the pronouncement from the mouth of Opposition Members , which in many instance be , frankly , farcical . in my constituency , the legacy of 14 year of fail conservative government be plain to see : people unable to get GP appointment ; a lack of nhs dentist for resident to sign up with ; poor mental health support for young people and adult ; and , of course , the undelivered promise of a new hospital in Watford , cancel under the coalition and not deliver by the Conservatives over subsequent year . the previous Government ' s track record be one of decline . in 2010 , average waiting time be 18 week and satisfaction level in the NHS be at their absolute high . what a contrast to 2024 , with the NHS on its knee . the Chancellor of the Exchequer announce in the Budget an additional £ 22 . 6 billion to support the NHS . that will help to deliver more appointment for my constituent in Watford , and it will bring progress towards once again have to wait no more than 18 week from referral to treatment . as have be say , we have do it before and we will do it again . I also welcome the Chancellor ' s £ 1 . 4 billion to help rebuild school . she mention Watford in her Budget speech , note that school in my constituency will benefit from RAAC be deal with . mention RAAC also bring we to the new hospital programme . I know my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury will be listen when I say loud and clear that Watford be desperate for a new hospital . that have be the case for many year . the trust ' s plan be ready to go , go , go , but I recognise that the Chancellor have achieve the seemingly impossible by manage to start the new hospital programme and move forward with address the hospital affect by RAAC . we hope the rest will follow soon . I campaign in good faith in the general election for a new hospital and to honour the commitment make by the previous Government , but as we hear from the Chancellor in the summer , there be no money there . the Chancellor have work wonder with this Budget . she have deal with the financial black hole , she have get the country back on its foot and she have put it on the road to recovery . it be an excellent budget for the people of Watford ; it be an excellent budget for the country . I wholeheartedly support it . we have be able to get in over 80 contribution , so thank you very much to everybody for abide by the time limit . I now call the shadow Minister . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a great pleasure to play a part in bring today ' s interesting debate to a close . I take this opportunity to welcome the Chief Secretary to the Treasury to his post — I know he have be in post for a few month , but we have not have the chance to get to know each other . I must say I have be very impressed he . he be a fluent speaker . he be good on detail . that be not sarcasm — I be once warn by Hansard that sarcasm do not come across well in the write record — but I know what it be to be send out to defend the indefensible . I can see that he be develop a fine skill and that he be some way on his way to master it . I just gently say to your man start out in his Front Bench career in government not to get too good at it , because you will find your party will give you ample opportunity to defend the indefensible in the year ahead . order . Shadow Minister , I do not think you be speak to I when you say " you " . you be obviously speak to the Minister . it have be a long day , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope you will forgive I . but enough of such pleasantry . this be a bad budget . it be as bad as bad can be . at its heart be a decision to tax business hard — very hard — and through they to tax worker until the pip scream . it be a Budget that see the total effective tax rate on low - earn role increase to its high level since 2010 , hit work people hard , as the Chief Secretary to the Treasury admit on Sky television on Friday . we know that tax business be a bad idea . as my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) say early , business and work people be the dynamo of the economy . if we denude and degrade they , there be nothing for public service to feed on . but we discover , as this Budget unravel , that it be not just business that be be tax . it be GPs , it be care home , it be hospice — as the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) point out — and it be dentist , charity , childcare , high education and school support staff . I understand that Labour Members will want to support big tax rise in the Budget , but before they vote on they , I ask they to consider whether they want to vote for tax rise on those service . in response to an intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who be sit behind I , the Health Secretary say that he would listen to GPs , but either the money from the national insurance contribution be in the Budget , or it be not . either it be in the envelope , or it be not . have the thinking be do on this ? at present , it would seem that all those service be in limbo . yesterday , during education question , the Education Secretary be ask by both the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , and the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , whether school support staff would be affect . she could not answer . these be serious question , and the Government must know the answer . his Majesty ' s Treasury must have the datum , and it must publish that datum . so let I first ask the Chief Secretary if he will publish figure show who will be hit by his national insurance contribution tax rise , what the cost will be to the service concern , and whether they will receive compensation . as I say , the Treasury must have the datum , and if the Chief Secretary do not have it at his fingertip , I ask he to put it in the Library of the House of Commons as soon as possible . we all want well public service ; the question be , do we think we can get they if the service that I have mention be be tax ? as the Chief Secretary say on television the other day , without reform more generally , money will just follow money out of the door . we be tell that Labour have a plan for improve the NHS . we know that , because the Prime Minister tell we in a speech on 11 September that in the spring he would have a plan . that plan , he say , would contain a transition to a digital NHS , move more care from hospital to community , and focus effort on prevention over sickness . who could argue with those sensible measure ? it be good to read in the Red Book at a time of the Budget that his Majesty ' s Government intend to : " invest more than £ 2 billion in NHS technology and digital to run essential service and drive NHS productivity improvement " , which " will deliver 2 % productivity next year . " that be very sensible , but it give rise to a strange sense of d é j à vu — and then one remember that in the spring Budget this year the then Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , announce £ 3 . 4 billion in additional funding for the NHS to deliver 2 % annual increase in productivity through new technology and digital across the health service in England . so part 1 of Labour ' s three - point plan be not new at all . it be a conservative initiative , already account for by a Conservative Chancellor . let we proceed to part 2 , move more care to community . on that , the Red Book say absolutely nothing . as for part 3 , prevention , there be a small increase in tobacco duty and a vaping product duty . not content with tax we into growth , the Chancellor intend to tax we into health — but it be all right , because apparently the Prime Minister have a plan to have a plan in the spring . I will tell you a funny story about the spring , Madam Deputy Speaker . when I be first work as a parliamentary researcher , there be some long - forget report that the Department for Children , Schools and Families be produce . we ask when it would be publish , and we be tell , " in the spring . " we ask , " when do spring end ? " the Department tell we , " when summer begin . " in that tale be an insight into the way in which Labour government think . it be tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow , and never do reform come . that be the plan for the NHS . it be relatively well developed , next to the non - existent plan for welfare reform . my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , who be now the shadow Chancellor , start that work , but silence have now descend . More worker be need to grow the economy — the OBR be quite clear on that . the Chancellor have choose tax over employment , which will not deliver growth . the Government ' s plan have be to tax , to spend , to think a bit , to set up a website , to get tell to serve waffle for every meal , and to think a bit more . then they will see whether any money be leave , they will discover that there be not , and they will need to increase taxis again . what be become painfully apparent be that Labour waste its time in opposition . it have 14 year to come up with a plan for the NHS , but it do not , and now it be scrabble to find one . by the time we see the Prime Minister ' s fabled plan , more than 10 % of this Parliament will have pass , and very little will have be do that be not already be do before . the Prime Minister say there would be no extra money without reform , but that be precisely what he have give the country . that be the price of political complacency . it be the price of think that governing be easy . it be the price of believe your own hype , and of fail to be honest with yourself . some people say that the Labour party be try to pull the wool over people ' s eye , and I be one of they . I think that behind the great ambiguity of the labour manifesto there would be a game plan , but game plan have come there none . we have £ 140 billion of extra borrowing , and £ 10 billion more in high debt repayment . mortgage payment be up , and there be austerity for employer and worker . a loveless landslide have become a loveless tax rise for the british people , and they will not wear it . I rather enjoy that ! I hope the hon . Gentleman can take a breather now . may I welcome the new shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster to his place ? from what he have say today — I should confess that I be not a clinician — I think he may have some amnesia about the performance of his party in government , but maybe the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , the former Minister for common sense , can help he find some before he next appear before the House . may I also welcome the new shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , to his place ? Madam Deputy Speaker , some member of this House will know that you , the shadow Chief Secretary and I work very well together for many year on the Business and Trade Committee . clearly , some thing have change and some have not . you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be now very much in control in the Chair ; I be on the other side of the table and answer the question ; and the shadow Chief Secretary will still shout at Ministers , irrespective of whether they be conservative or Labour , for be too socialist . every Government come into office seek to improve the country , but it be now clear that the last Conservative Government do not come into office to improve public service . in a recent report from the Institute for Government , two key conclusion be draw : first , that most public service be perform substantially bad in 2024 than they be in 2010 , and secondly , that public service performance have be damage by a lack of capital investment . after 14 year of failure from the conservative party , this Government will begin the work of implement a bold programme of public service reform . this Budget start that work by choose a different path — by choose investment over decline . in do so , we will make sure that every pound be spend well and that reform be bake into our approach to governing , but we have also sign up to the much great challenge of fundamentally reform our public service . I see no great opportunity than modernise the very nature of the state — not to get stick on the old debate about the size of the state , but to fundamentally rewire and improve the state of the state . this be a generational budget . it be a Budget that meet the scale of the challenge we face as a country . to illustrate that more clearly , it be worth the House reflect on the story so far and on where the country find itself before this new Labour Government come into office . our national debt be almost the same size as our gdp , our investment share be the low of any in the G7 and , perhaps most significantly , our growth lag behind that of other OECD country over the course of the last Parliament , result in lose opportunity and lose growth totalling £ 171 billion . the impact of this be painfully clear in our fiscal picture , because the public finance we be tell we have inherit from the last Government have be prove to be a fiscal fiction . ahead of the election , we all know that the public finance be bad . that be no secret , but nobody expect to discover the negligent , shameful hide secret of the £ 22 billion black hole of in - year spending . that be hide from this House , from the medium , from the Office for Budget Responsibility and from the public — [ interruption . ] I encourage Conservative Members to look at the evidence from the OBR to the Treasury Committee today , which make just this point . these issue be a direct result of 14 year of paper over the crack in our country ' s foundation instead of fix they . my right hon . friend be repeat a statistic that we will all be familiar with — that of the £ 22 billion black hole — but it be important to make the point that that £ 22 billion be not the extra money the Conservatives be spend compare with what they be bring in . the deficit last year be £ 120 billion . this £ 22 billion be extra money — bad than the £ 120 billion deficit we already know we be inherit . my hon . friend be absolutely right . these be promise make by the last government that they know they do not have the money to pay for . this be spend from the general reserve — the money put aside for genuine emergency each year — that they blow three time over within the first three month of the financial year . anyone who run a business , anyone who run family finance and anyone who be in charge of the country ' s finance should know that that be shameful , and the Conservatives should apologise to the country for it . nowhere be that more true than in our public service , which have suffer as a consequence of the Conservatives ' mismanagement . for example , Lord Darzi ' s independent report into the state of our NHS find that the past 14 year have leave the NHS in a critical condition . we very much welcome what the Government be do in relation to the contaminate blood and Post Office Horizon scandal , but let ask the Minister a very gentle question — a question that need to be answer — in relation to the WASPI woman ? when the right hon . Gentleman be in opposition , we all support the WASPI woman , and now he be in government . I understand that the Government be look at this issue . what will happen to the WASPI woman ? can we expect to have that address during this term ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the ombudsman report to this House before the election , make a number of recommendation , but do not conclude the basis on which a compensation scheme might apply . further work be therefore require , which the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be look at , but I would point he to the fact that this be a Government who honour their promise . if we look at the infected blood scandal or the Post Office Horizon scandal — an issue that I work on for many year — we be tell by the Conservatives that they be do the right thing by compensate the victim , but they do not put £ 1 aside to pay for it . from education to our justice system , we have inherit public service that be on life support , but I do not need to tell work people that . sadly , they know it all too well , because the last Government lose control of both our public finance and our public service . this Budget and this Government will get both back under control . I will now outline how we should do that , by focus on one simple word : reform . reform be urgent , because we can not simply spend our way to well public service . this be a Government for work people , and we be determined that they will get the good possible public service for the good possible price , but public service reform be not just about policy or it system or procurement , as important as they be ; it be about people . it be about the people at the end of each of our decision : the patient in the hand of the NHS with worry and hope in their heart ; the pupil in a school , college or university with aspiration that should be meet ; and the pensioner who want to feel safe walk to the shop on their high street . behind each of those people be a doctor , a nurse , a teacher , a police officer or a civil servant . these be public servant who have choose to work in public service to serve the public , as this government do . they be public servant and people who today feel frustrated by not be able to access public service and not be able to deliver they . these be public service that , when perform well , deliver a well - function state and help keep worker educate , well and able to help grow our economy and protect our country . it be for these people that my right hon . friend the Chancellor confirm we will deliver a new approach to public service that be responsible , that look to the future and that balance investment to secure public service for the long term with reform to drive up the quality of those service today , and with reform as a condition for investment . from the Attlee Government found the NHS to the Blair Government reform poorly perform state school , reform be in Labour ' s dna . I now turn to some of the point make by right hon . and hon . member today , and I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Broxtowe ( Juliet Campbell ) , for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) and for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , and the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) , on deliver their maiden speech . there be many speech today , so colleague will have to accept my apology for not be able to address all 80 contribution individually . however , I join my Labour colleague in celebrate this Budget , because build an nhs that be fit for the future be one of this Government ' s five mission . that be why we have invest over £ 22 billion , the high real - term rate of growth since 2010 outside of the covid response . I have also hear the voice of hon . member from Northern Ireland and Scotland , include the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) , who encourage I so dearly to listen to his speech but have not return to the House for my sum up . under this Labour Government , the large real - term funding increase since devolution begin have be deliver for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . this Labour Government be deliver from Westminster for the people of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , and we will work in partnership with the devolved government to deliver the change for which people vote , and which we have now give the devolved government the money to deliver . we thank the Minister for that , but will he reassure the Scottish Government right now that their £ 500 million of national insurance contribution for public sector employee will be give back in full compensation to the Scottish Government , rather than be put into the block grant ? it be the great real - term increase in funding since devolution begin . if the devolved Government wish to take responsibility for devolve matter , they should do so . if they do not wish to do so , Labour will happily take over at the next election to deliver well service for the people of Scotland . many member have ask I to comment on the new hospital programme . as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have confirm , this Government be commit to deliver a realistic and deliverable plan , and we will deliver the outcome of the review to the House in due course . many member have also ask I about the difficult decision to increase employer national insurance contribution , in the context of Labour honour its promise to work people not to increase employee national insurance contribution or income tax in their payslip . it be right that the Government be not legislate to exempt non - public sector organisation from these change but , as the Secretary of State say , we pay for these service and it will be reflect in their settlement . to answer the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , whether now or in the spring at the conclusion of the spending review , those departmental settlement will be publish in the normal way . do the Minister not think that it be important that hon . member see those figure , to see how much the service I mention will be tax , before they vote on this Budget ? would that not be transparent ? the hon . Gentleman perhaps forget that the vote be tomorrow . no doubt he will come to the House to vote to support the allocation of £ 22 billion of extra funding so that the national health service can cover the cost of the doctor and nurse who , under his administration , be strike on the picket line while Ministers refuse to talk to they . under this government , they be back on the ward and in the theatre deliver for the people of this country . the Government recognise the need to reform the social care system , and we thank those who work in the system for the work they do to help those in need . that be why we agree a £ 600 million funding increase for 2025 - 26 , and we will return to this issue in the second phase of the spending review . I politely say to member that I understand the temptation to ask for more spending , as I often do in opposition , but minister have to explain how they will pay for it . if Opposition member want more spending or , indeed , few tax rise , they will have the opportunity tomorrow to set out to the House what they would do differently . would they increase income tax and national insurance on worker once again ? would they increase vat on people who go to the shop ? would they increase corporation tax for business , which we have pledge not to do ? would they reject the investment in school , hospital , the police service and the future of our country ? give their behaviour under the last Administration , do they wish just to borrow money every single month to pay the bill , month after month , increase the national debt and increase the cost of the national debt , but not invest in the fabric of this country , as this Government will do ? may I take the Minister back to the question of social care ? I understand what he be say and that proposal will be bring forward , but there be two thing : immediately , there be a crisis in local government about simply pay for exist social care , and , for family all over the country , there be a crisis about how they will support people who be in care at the present time . be there an aspiration to bring forward a much more comprehensive model that will provide hope for people who be often go deeply into debt , sell property and all kind of thing , just to support a love one who be in desperate need of profound social care ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . this government have aspiration to improve the social care system , and we will set out further detail on those plan in due course . lastly , although not relate directly to the NHS or public service , I welcome the supportive comment from member across the House about the mineworker ' pension scheme and the Post Office Horizon compensation scheme . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I work on those issue for many year when in opposition . we fail to persuade the former Government to do the right thing , but the great thing about be in government be that we can just say it be so , and it have be so . that be the difference that a Labour Government can make . the Labour party have a proud heritage of deliver public service to meet the need of the nation : the national health service , social security , comprehensive school , the Open University , academy school . this new Labour Government will seize the generational need to reimagine public service once again . we have an age society , few work people pay tax , increase demand , failing standard and increase cost . after 14 year of a Conservative Government , that be the legacy they have leave this country . we will not walk by on the other side and ignore those challenge . we will set out how we will reform our public service , build on this Budget of investment , choose it over decline , focus on outcome , prevention , devolution and innovation in order to modernise our public service . as I have set out today , the big opportunity — the opportunity to build the new foundation of the new public sector — be technology . the productivity of our public service be hold back by IT system often date back to the 1950 and the 1970 : fax machine in the NHS , an inability to share information between public service , ten of thousand of public servant do their good to administer casework use paper . that situation have not be affect in any positive way over the past 14 year . this be not about machine - learn algorithm , but about old computer in cupboard with information that be in desperate need of be transfer to the cloud . it be about the un - newsworthy but vital work of integrate software across Departments , an area of spending I protect and encourage in phase 1 of the spending review . it be about what might seem obvious to people at home who be now use to do their banking on an app or their shopping online , who can not get through to a gp surgery , a decision on their universal credit or an answer to their tax question without a lengthy and often unsuccessful attempt to speak to someone on the telephone . our new digital centre of Government will drive digital transformation across Government , because modernise public service be not just a great opportunity ; it be a non - negotiable requirement for any modern party in a modern Government today . if we have follow the Conservatives ' path of further decline , we would have break public service that cost more , while fail the public who rely on they and the public servant who work in they . by choose to invest , this party — this government — will deliver a modern state that meet the need of the nation and deliver a bright future for we all . reform and growth , investment over decline — those be the choice reflect in this Budget and that be the change this Labour Government will deliver . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . NHS Dentistry : Rural Areas Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be grateful to have secure this evening ' s Adjournment debate on access to NHS dentistry in rural area . in my first few month as the Member of Parliament for Chippenham , there have be one issue that have be raise with I almost every day : the decision by Hathaway dental practice in Chippenham to close its door to NHS patient on 1 November . today , I wish to put on the record why dentist like Hathaway be cease to offer NHS dental care , and why that be particularly devastating in rural community such as the one I represent . since be elect , I have correspond with hundred of my constituent about the state of NHS dentistry in Wiltshire . I have meet patient , one of the director of Hathaway dental practice , representative of our integrate care board , Denplan and the British Dental Association — anyone that could help I understand what be happen , why it be happen , and how we might save NHS dental care in Wiltshire from disappear altogether . only a week into this Parliament , I be able to raise the issue with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care during a briefing on preventive healthcare . today , I hope to make the case to Ministers — yet again — that NHS dental care be in crisis . the failure to fix NHS dentistry be prove catastrophic in rural community up and down the UK and be , unfortunately , not a problem unique to the south - west . I think it might be helpful for colleague if I take the time to relay some of the fact . I thank my hon . friend for give way . at a time when tooth decay be the most common reason for hospital admission in child age between six and 10 , and when my constituent in rural area such as Swallowfield and Hurst struggle to access dentist , do she agree that the conservative party have fundamentally fail the country on dentistry ? I agree that dentistry have be fail over the past 14 year . accord to the House of Commons Library , 51 , 000 child have not see a dentist in Wiltshire in the past year . my constituent in Ilton be now in debt because they have to take their son , who be eligible for free NHS dentistry , to a private dentist , as they could not find an NHS dentist in the whole of Somerset . sadly , that come as no surprise , give that four in 10 child in Somerset have not be able to see a dentist this past year . do my hon . friend agree that dentist need to be encourage back into the NHS by reform the broken NHS dental contract ? I do agree with my hon . friend , and I will mention that point later in my speech . it be no surprise to I that child in her constituency be have similar problem to child in my constituency . accord to NHS England , only 33 % of adult under the NHS Bath and North East Somerset , Swindon and Wiltshire integrate care board have see a dentist in the past two year . accord to a freedom of information request by the British Dental Association , my local ICB ' s project dentistry underspend equate to £ 4 . 6 million . when Hathaway close its door to NHS patient last Friday , this be a major blow to my constituent . some of my constituent in Melksham and Devizes , who until recently have have an NHS dentist in Chippenham , now find that the service have be strip away from they . they now have to pay a monthly fee , which total up to more than £ 150 a year at a minimum . do my hon . friend agree that that and the state of child ' s dentistry be become a source of national shame ? urgent funding be need now to revive vital service and to ensure that the oral health of the nation ' s child and adult be protect . I agree with my hon . friend ; that speak to the fact that we be be leave with a dental desert , with no sign of relief . I commend the hon . Lady for secure this important debate . she mention that dental desert can be a problem up and down the country . that be certainly the case in my constituency of North Northumberland . I welcome the Government ' s dental rescue plan and the commitment to an additional 700 , 000 appointment per year . however , my situation be like her : constituent in hundred of square kilometre of my constituency tell I that they simply can not access NHS dentistry . it be a real shame that no Conservative Members be here to hear this . do the hon . Lady agree that rural resident should expect the same provision of NHS dentistry as those in urban area ? I do agree with the hon . member . the real issue for rural area be , again , access to public transport . dental provision might be relatively close in theory , but public transport do not allow people to get to the dentist . the issue of rurality be important and need to be address . analysis conduct by the Rural Services Network show that someone live in a rural area be less likely to be able to access an NHS dentist than those live in an urban area , with 10 % few dental practice take on new adult NHS patient in rural area . the analysis also show that in rural area , there be 16 % few dental practice with an NHS contract per 100 , 000 people . that again point to the fact that rural area be definitely in a bad situation than urban one . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this issue forward ; the number of people in the Chamber indicate the interest in it right across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . do she agree that dentistry be on the brink and that the additional national insurance contribution be go to push even more dentist into refuse NHS contract and take private patient only ? should not the Government immediately instigate an increase in price in rural area , to save the few dentist leave who be brave rural isolation and the increase cost of operation ? I agree with the hon . member . the disparity be clear . as he mention , rural area be be hard hit by our broken NHS dental contract system . unfortunately , there do not seem to be much hope on the horizon . Denplan tell I that 90 % of dentist plan to reduce their NHS commitment in the next two year and that the UK have the low dentist - to - population ratio in the whole of Europe . although all dentist be dedicate to improve the nation ' s health , access to NHS dental service remain a persistent challenge under the current system , particularly in rural area . in lieu of the dental contract be renegotiate , could something not be do by the local integrate care board that commission dentistry to make special provision for local contract when dentist be consider give up contract in the short term ? that could be do now , in lieu of that renegotiation . I agree . hold on . [ interruption . ] sorry . will my hon . friend give way ? yes — thank you , Richard . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . she have mention ICB commission . I write to the Minister to ask whether there be set criterion for know where a patient be on the waiting list , and I understand that that be entirely in the gift of individual practice . do my hon . friend think that it ought to be for icb , or for NHS Devon in my case , to determine where people be on the waiting list for NHS dental care ? rise — let I give the hon . Lady a moment to gather her thought before she resume her speech . it be good not to refer to a Member by their first name . she have a solid 30 minute — although the Minister have to respond within those 30 minute — so she can take her time . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I remind the House that the Conservative Government have the last decade to reform the dental contract but fail to do so . I therefore implore the new Government to act now with two simple action . first , they should introduce a timeline for reform the NHS dental contract system . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say that that be their intention , but I feel that there be an element of urgency about this — especially for rural area — that have not be address . secondly , I would like it to be a mandatory requirement for icb to appoint dentist to their board . there be a strong feeling among dentist that ICB board of director do not understand the issue they face . do the hon . member think it indicative of the state of politic today that , although member from both side of the House be here , not a single one of the culprit — those responsible for the shameful state of dentistry across the UK , not least in my constituency — be here to listen to her very important speech ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . it be disappointing that those who have fail to address this issue over many year still do not seem to see it as important . although the dental contract be introduce under a Labour Government , it be clear that , after a length of time , there be an obvious moment when it should have be reform but be not . that be disappointing and noticeable . to reinforce the point make by the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) and for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) , and by my hon . friend , this be not purely down to money . indeed , there be an underspend in the dentistry contract of many icb , and not just in Cornwall . fundamentally , we know that it be the nature of the contract itself that mean we end up in situation such as that in Cornwall , where child can expect never to see an NHS dentist until adulthood . I agree with my hon . friend . as I have mention , the ICB that represent my constituency have quite a significant underspend in its dental budget . that be quite often because dental practice do not wish to take up the contract as they find that the payment system , and its use of unit of dental activity , fail to support they in a way that allow they to make a living . as we say early , small business be struggle across the country . they find that they be subsidise their NHS dentistry with private dentistry , to the point that it be no long sustainable . another issue that be prevalent in most rural area , and certainly in the south - west , be recruitment . while NHS dentistry do not pay , it be extremely difficult for dental practice to find dentist who will take on NHS contract . many of the dentist who take on NHS contract have leave — some be european citizen — or be simply no long prepared to spend that many hour in a dental surgery and have decide either to retire or to take on easy work elsewhere . this ongoing problem will continue unless the dental contract be reform quickly . do my hon . friend agree that it be wrong that patient who have be force to seek private care in an emergency be then refuse NHS registration , because they be consider to already be register as private patient ? should this not be address in any revise contract ? my hon . friend make an interesting point that I be not aware of . from discuss this matter with dentist , it be my understanding that these day , nobody be actually register with a dentist ; they be merely allow to come regularly , and if they do not , they be take off that dentist ' s list . my understanding be that it be quite difficult to register , so that be an interesting point that I hope the Minister will note . a particular concern to dental practice , and a point that Denplan make very clear to I , be that once a dental practitioner have hand in their NHS provider number , even if the dental contract be improve , they be unlikely to come back to the NHS because of the complication involve in get that provider number reinstate . that be why we need the Government to act now , before more dentist leave the NHS . another issue for dental practice be that when qualified dentist come over from the EU , their qualification be valid , but they have to spend an extra year training before they be allow to register as NHS practitioner . that be slow down any chance of increase our intake from our european partner . I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for secure this debate , and particularly for highlight the add impact that the loss of dentist have in rural area , where , if people lose their dentist , there be often no other dentist nearby . in my constituency , people frequently say that they struggle to find any dentist take new NHS patient . she be right to highlight that the dental contract be the root cause of the issue , and to press for a clear timescale . do she agree that by the end of this calendar year , the Government should have set out a timescale for start crucial negotiation on the contract ? I agree that a timeline for reform the dental contract be vital ; that be what I be ask for . if we lose this opportunity and our NHS dentist leave the system , we will be in an increasingly difficult place . across Wiltshire , for those not already register with an NHS dentist , it be absolutely impossible to get one . there be not a single practice take on NHS patient right across the unitary authority of Wiltshire , despite its size . the number of dentist be obviously extremely important , but that be just part of what go into the equation . in rural constituency such as mine , access to healthcare service be heavily dependent on frequent , reliable service — in particular , bus service . do the hon . Lady agree that if people be to access dental service , we need to ensure that those reliable , frequent public service be back in place ? as I be sure the hon . Member will remember , I have already mention the serious issue of public transport in rural area on several occasion . I could not agree with he more . I thank the House once again for allow I to make the case for improved NHS dental care , and I implore the Minister and his colleague to do the right thing by my constituent and those of the member who have intervene , in order to support dental care , specifically in rural area . I start by thank the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) for secure this important debate . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have say , we will be honest about the problem and challenge face our health and care system , and we will be serious about tackle they . in my constituency , there have be an 11 % decline in the number of adult who have see an NHS dentist in just the last few year — it have be precipitous . there be a specific problem , however , with adult in care home . I speak to a local dentist , and she explain that the standard insurance for dentist no long cover they visit and perform service in care home in the community . can the Minister look into that , and do he agree that it be a huge problem that when vulnerable people can not come to a dental practice , dentist can not go to they ? my hon . friend point to a specific problem set against the backdrop of the general challenge that we face in dentistry , thank to the legacy of 14 year of Tory incompetence and negligence . we will of course look into it , and if she would care to write to I , I would be happy to look into the issue . the hon . member for Chippenham be right to raise the problem of NHS dentistry in rural area — a problem that will , sadly , be familiar to member across the House . the truth be that we be very far from where we need to be . Lord Darzi ' s review lay bare the true extent of the challenge face our health service , include NHS dentistry , and even he , with all his year of experience , be shock by what he discover . his report be vital , because it give we the frank assessment we need to face the problem honestly and properly . it will take last reform and a long - term health plan to save our NHS . rescue NHS dentistry will not happen overnight , but we will not wait to make improvement to the system , increase access and incentivise the workforce to deliver more NHS care . the Government have commit to three seismic shift : from hospital to community , from analogue to digital and from sickness to prevention . our 10 - year plan will set out how we will deliver those shift to give the country an NHS that be fit for the future . I share the astonishment of other member that not a single Conservative Member be here , in a debate on NHS dentistry in rural area . I be a bit old - fashioned and I want a function opposition . it be sad that they be not here to take part in this debate . when I contact surgery in Macclesfield to find out the state of play , 15 say that they do not accept NHS patient at all . that be the legacy that the Conservatives have leave we . can the Minister confirm that the Government will move urgently and quickly on NHS dentistry reform ? order . intervention should be short , and the Minister must respond to the Member whose debate it be . we be work at pace , and I will say more about that shortly . I share my hon . friend ' s reflection on the complete absence of the Conservatives . they make a complete mess of our public service , call an election and run for the hill . on 4 July , we inherit a broken NHS dentistry system . it be a national scandal that tooth decay be the lead cause of hospital admission for five to nine - year - old in our country . it be truly shameful and nothing short of Dickensian . in the area serve by the NHS Bath and North East Somerset , Swindon and Wiltshire integrate care board , which include the constituency of the hon . member for Chippenham , 33 % of adult be see by an NHS dentist in the 24 month up to March 2024 . that compare to a 40 % average across England . in 2023 - 24 , there be 44 dentist per 100 , 000 of the population there , whereas the national average be 50 . when we look at the problem in the round , it be not so much that we do not have enough dentist , but that not enough of they be do NHS work , and they be not in the part of the country that need they most . that challenge be compound by the fact that some area of the country be experience recruitment and retention issue , include many rural area , where the challenge in access NHS dentistry be exacerbate . that of course include Chippenham , where Hathaway dental practice have recently have a request grant to reduce its nhs activity , as the hon . Lady point out . I understand , thank to a freedom of information request by the British Dental Association , that the practice have a £ 4 . 2 million underspend on its NHS contract . that be precisely the problem that hon . member have point out . there be a quantum of funding , but the way in which it be structure make private sector dentistry far more attractive than NHS dentistry . that be the root cause of the problem ; we be alive to that issue . overall , it be clear that we have a mountain to climb . it be a daunting challenge , but we be not daunt , and we be work at pace . the golden hello scheme , for example , will see up to 240 dentist receive payment of £ 20 , 000 to work for three year in one of the area that need they the most . integrated care board have already begin to advertise post , as we have accelerate that process . in the ICB area of the hon . member for Chippenham , there have be seven expression of interest , five of which have be approve . provider can now include incentive payment when they advertise vacant position . alongside that , we will deliver a rescue plan that get NHS dentistry back on its foot . that will start with provide 700 , 000 additional urgent appointment as rapidly as possible , as set out in our manifesto . strengthen the workforce be key to our ambition , but for year the NHS have face chronic workforce shortage , so we have to be honest about the fact that bring in the staff we need will take time . will the Minister give way ? I have very little time leave . we be committed to reform the dentistry contract to make nhs work more attractive , boost retention , and deliver a shift to prevention . this government will always make sure that our health and care system have the staff it need , so that it be there for all of we when we need it . we be already work at pace with the British Dental Association and the dental sector to improve and reform the dental contract . the Secretary of State meet the BDA on his first day in office , and I have meet it a couple of time , include yesterday . we will listen to the sector and learn from the good practice out there . for example , I know that the ICB of the hon . member for Chippenham have apply its delegate power to increase the availability of NHS dentistry across the south - west through other target recruitment and retention activity . that include work on a regional level to attract new applicant through increase access to postgraduate bursary , explore the potential for apprenticeship and support international dental graduate . in addition , a consultation for a tie - in to NHS dentistry for graduate dentist close on 18 July , and we be now consider the response . the Government position on this proposal will be set out in due course . we be also work round the clock to end the appalling tooth decay that be a blight on our child , as I have mention . we be work with local authority and the NHS to introduce supervised tooth brushing for three to five - year - old in the most deprived community across the country , get they into healthy habit for life and protect their tooth from decay . we will set out plan for that in due course , but it be clear that to maximise return on investment , tooth - brush programme must be target at child in the most disadvantaged community . in addition to our supervised tooth - brushing scheme , the measure we be take to reduce sugar consumption will have a positive effect on child ' s oral health . we also know that water fluoridation be a safe and effective measure to reduce tooth decay . it currently cover 6 million people in England , and a decision on expand that will be make in due course . we find ourselves in an extremely challenging fiscal position , but we remain committed to tackle the immediate crisis , and to fix NHS dentistry in the long term with dental contract reform . we be commit to : provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment ; the golden hello scheme to recruit more dentist in area of great need ; continue to work with the sector to help find solution to improve access to NHS dentistry ; tackle the disparity that be commonly see in dentistry ; roll out supervise tooth - brushing for three to five - year - old in our most deprived community ; make sure everyone who need a dentist can get one , irrespective of whether they live in a city or in a rural area ; and do the job on long - term dental contract reform , which will take some time . we will clear up the mess we have inherit , we will get NHS dentistry back on its foot , and we will build an NHS dentistry service that be fit for the future . question put and agree to . House adjourn .