I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) for secure this important debate and for speak with such great passion . he very much share my determination to do well in this area to help and support more disabled people into work and unlock all that potential that we know exist . in 2017 , the Government set the goal of see a million more disabled people in employment between 2017 and 2027 . I be proud to say that , by the first quarter of 2022 , the number of disabled people in employment have increase by 1 . 3 million , which mean that the goal be meet after only five year . by the first quarter of 2023 , disability employment have rise by 1 . 6 million in total since the goal be announce , but we be aware that this progress have not be even . those early success must be a catalyst for further change . we know that most learning - disabled people want to have a job , and evidence show that they bring many positive benefit to their employer . that be something I hear time and again , as I go round the country meet employer and meeting disabled people experience the benefit of work . but we also know that less than three in 10 working - age people with severe and specific learning disability be currently in employment . that mean that more than seven in 10 of this group be still unable to access the independence and sense of fulfilment that employment can bring , and that many employer be not benefit from the enthusiasm , skill and commitment that they can bring to their workplace . we be therefore work hard in Government , as an enabler and with other , to support learning - disabled people to secure , sustain and succeed in employment . we be continue to improve the general support available to learning - disabled claimant when they attend the jobcentre . additional work coach support provide disabled people and those with health condition with increase one - to - one personalised support from their work coach to help they move towards and into work . that support be already available in two third of jobcentre in England , Scotland , and Wales . it will be available nationally in 2024 . we have strengthen our disability employment adviser role , deliver direct support to claimant who require additional work - relate support and support all work coach to deliver tailor , personalise support to claimant with a disability or health condition , include those with a learn disability . as well as this general support , we be provide a range of special programme that can help learn - disabled people to access employment . they will have priority access to the work and health programme in England and Wales . intensive personalise employment support provision have also be available in England and Wales , provide highly personalise package of specialist employment support for disabled people and people with health condition to achieve sustained employment . the local support employment programme help people with learn difficulty and / or autism to find and retain work through intensive one - to - one support and an evidence - base approach to support employment . local support employment aim to develop a sustainable model by give intensive one - to - one support to those face with significant barrier to work . we have fund 23 lead local authority to deliver local support employment in 28 local authority area in England and Wales from November 2022 until March 2025 . over that period , LSE will help about 12 , 000 people to move into and stay in work . an average of 90 participant in each of the 28 local authority area be set to benefit from £ 7 . 4 million in grant funding and support which will include the assignment of job coach who can carry out vocational profiling , engage employer and provide in - work support to enable this group to enter and maintain employment in the open labour market . the spring Budget confirm funding for a new employment programme call universal support , which will use the prove support employment model to help inactive disabled people , people with health condition and those face additional barrier to employment into sustained work — do more of what we know succeed in secure meaningful outcome for people . one of the aspect of the coverage of this issue that frustrate I the most be the failure to recognise that it be as important to focus on retention as it be to focus on job start , and that both must be see in tandem . that be precisely what universal support will help we to do . eligible learning - disabled people will be able to opt into receive up to 12 month of " place and train " support help they to move quickly into suitable work , follow by wraparound support to help they to sustain that employment in the long term . I be pleased to confirm that follow the announcement in the late autumn statement , we be expand the universal support scheme to enable it to provide support for 100 , 000 people a year once it have be fully roll out , an increase on the 50 , 000 place a year announce in the spring Budget . we know that many learning - disabled people will require workplace adjustment to secure and retain employment , and the access to work scheme can undoubtedly help with the extra cost of work , beyond those involve in standard workplace adjustment . access to work contribute to the disability - relate extra cost of work face by disabled people and those with a health condition in the workplace that be beyond the cost of standard reasonable adjustment , and include the provision of support worker , specialist aid and equipment , and help with travel to and from work . as part of the scheme , we be test an " adjustment passport " in a variety of setting to establish whether it can reduce the need for assessment when the requirement remain the same and need to be " passporte " around to help a person enter into a role and then make progress within it , as well as make conversation with employer easy . we recently launch an access to work adjustment planner , which will be roll out to all university and high education college . the planner collect key information about a student ' s adjustment need which can be easily share with prospective employer . trial result show that disabled student use the planner be more confident about enter employment . we be also test Access to work plus , a new employer offer that can offer additional support to employer who be willing to think differently about their vacancy and consider whether they can adapt , shape or flex a job to enable a disabled person to retain , return to or move into employment . that be relevant to my hon . friend ' s point about the key support that need to be available to aid people ' s transition into work , and available at various point in their life when they want to enter the workplace or increase their educational opportunity , and to maximise those life chance . during their transition to employment , learning - disabled young people can benefit from support internship , which be aim at those with a learn disability or autism who have an education , health and care plan . support Internships usually last for 12 month , contribute to the long - term career goal of young people and match their capability . alongside their time with an employer , support intern receive support from a specialist job coach and complete a personalised study programme deliver by the school or college , which include the chance to study for relevant qualification , if appropriate , and to receive English and math tuition at an appropriate level . while the Department for Education lead on this in England , the Department for Work and Pensions provide support for access to work where need and I would be happy to ask colleague in the Department for Education to provide further detail to my hon . friend about the opportunity that support internship can provide . separately , the autism employment review , lead by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , have be receive evidence this year about the barrier prevent autistic people from start , stay and succeed in employment and how those barrier can be overcome . although the review focus specifically on autistic people , many of the adjustment and initiative that will benefit they will also benefit a wide group of people include learning - disabled people and people with other disability . I be hugely grateful to he for all his effort .