it be a great privilege to be call to make my maiden speech in this most important debate , and it be an honour to represent the people of Amber Valley in this House . I be proud to be part of a Government with five mission , but my sixth mission be to put Amber Valley firmly on the map . any member who have have the misfortune to sit with I in the Tea Room will know exactly where Amber Valley be , because it be my practice to suffix its name with " in Derbyshire " . in fact , Amber Valley be know as the heart of Derbyshire , and deservedly so , because not only be it right in the middle of our wonderful county , but its people have the big heart . they be among the most friendly people in the world , but they be also unyielde . it be no surprise that they be descendant of those involve in the last revolution in England , the Pentrich revolution of 1817 , during which a group of constituent plot an armed uprising , angry about the state of the economy and demand parliamentary reform . hon . member will understand my relief at be part of a Government who be committed to make people well off and reform the House of Lords . originally a mining area , the local economy have since develop a diverse industrial base . I be delighted we be drive forward our industrial strategy , so that business such as those headquarter in Amber Valley can thrive . firm such as Thorntons Chocolates , Denby Pottery , Bowmer and Kirkland , Berry Recycling , National Gas and David Nieper provide employment . the last of those company lend its name to a school in Alfreton , which it oversee . that be a fine example of business support the local community . the school ' s ethos be to ensure child can raise their aspiration , break down the barrier to opportunity . that be so important for our young people in Amber Valley . youth service have be cut back , and the gap that have be leave be fill by the hard work and dedication of local people , such as James at Ayup in Alfreton , and Chrissie and Mikey at Old Farm Bus in Ripley Marehay . I be the fourth MP for Amber Valley . the first , Phillip Oppenheim , be credit for have bring the mojito to the UK . I can not promise to do anything so exciting when I leave this place , beyond perhaps sample one or two of those in our new bar in Alfreton . it be aptly name the Moot Bar , by virtue of its overlook the marketplace , where moot hearing , which be believe to have lead to the modern day jury system , be hold to settle dispute and try offender . it be a fitting place for a former Crown prosecutor such as myself to frequent . the second MP be Judy Mallaber , of my party , who still make a huge contribution to our community . Judy work hard for the introduction of the minimum wage . I be delighted this Government be build on that legacy , increase the national living wage and introduce the big improvement of worker ’ right in a generation . most recently , Amber Valley be represent by Nigel Mills . Nigel be a thoroughly decent man , who serve as a dedicated constituency MP for 14 year . he be rightly proud of be the long serving MP for Amber Valley . I wish he well . we have hear mention in many maiden speech of first — the first female MP , the first MP for a new constituency and even the first MP with a beard . in that spirit , I find myself look for mine . could I be the first Crown prosecutor to enter Parliament ? Rumour have it that someone have beat I to that particular accolade . I be relieved that you be in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I also find myself google whether I be the first MP name Linsey . I hope that do not affect my chance of Mr Speaker call I in the future . I be , however , the first Amber Valley MP to have be bear in the constituency — technically . I be bear in Ilkeston , a town now in neighbour Erewash , but at the time Ilkeston be a constituency with my three town , so I be technically bear in the constituency , but perhaps that be a lawyer ' s argument . the Labour party be form to give ordinary people a voice and to improve life . my dad be David Farnsworth and he would say that he be an ordinary man . he also have a catchphrase : " let I tell you a little tale . " to coin his catchphrase , I would like to tell the House a little tale about the Labour party through the life of that so - call ordinary man . there have be much debate about what a work person be , but I know it when I see it : it be my dad . originally a coalminer , like so many other he go into the dark so that his child ' s light would shine . I be pleased the Government be return the pension fund to miner such as my dad and the 772 former mineworker in Amber Valley . right that wrong be a manifesto commitment — and we be keep our promise . our life change when I be 12 and my mum Margaret be diagnose with cancer . she be one of the most caring people , always put other first . her late diagnosis be a result of she not want to be a burden on our already overstretch NHS . she die less than two month later . I do not want any family in Amber Valley to go through that . this government will get our NHS back on its foot — we must . after my mum die and the pit close , my dad be out of work . the Labour Government give he the opportunity to retrain as a bricklayer . he attend what be then South East Derbyshire College in Heanor , in a beautiful victorian building . long since close and leave derelict , it be now be refurbish and will house small business and provide community space . together with the newly renovate marketplace , the Labour - control borough council be ensure that Heanor town centre will be a welcoming place for resident to visit , while boost our local economy . my dad go on to build hundred of house and , have he not retire , I be sure he would be build his fair share of the 1 . 5 million home that we have promise to provide within this Parliament . my dad would say that he be an ordinary man . I say " would say " because he can not any more . Dementia have take his voice . my wonderful stepmum Kate care for he . she be one of the 5 . 2 million unpaid carer in the UK . I be glad that this Government be improve carer ' s allowance , but we must go far and create a national care service . my dad would say that he be an ordinary man . I say that he be extraordinary , for it be his value and guidance that have lead I to this place . my upbringing instill in I a drive — a drive to make society fairer . that lead I to serve as a Crown prosecutor for 21 year , work to secure justice for victim . it be , until my election to this place , the great honour of my life . I intend to continue to fight for justice , to fight for those suffer injustice and to use my voice for the people of Amber Valley . my goal to combat injustice extend particularly to the people of Ukraine . I visit Ukraine in September with fellow Labour mps . we see the human suffering of war : the home destroy , the child ' s cardiology hospital bomb while young child be on the operating table , the cellar of a school where civilian be hold captive by russian troop in the most appalling condition . Ukraine be defend herself , but she be also defend we , our value and our freedom . we must do everything we can to support Ukraine both now and for the rebuild after the conflict be over , and I fully support the Bill . we must deliver on our promise to rebuild trust in politic and show that it can be a force for good . my child have give I the affectionate nickname , " the vicious dictator " . I be not sure whether I be well place to lead on this , but I shall try . I promise , Madam Deputy Speaker , that my home be not a dictatorship , but it can be see through a political lens . my eld son once make a placard at bedtime with the slogan , " we want another story and we want it now " . he be a strong campaigner even at the tender age of 10 — he be now 17 . my young son be an effective lobbyist , as his collection of trainer will attest . my stepdaughter be chief whip , manage to bring together the boy even in the most challenging of debate . my brilliant husband Martin make a wonderful Speaker of our House , keep order and hold it all together . we all know that politics be all - consume and hugely onerous on family . the love , understanding and support that Martin and our child have give I have be integral to my be in this place . no maiden speech for Amber Valley would be complete without mention Butterley Engineering , around which the town of Ripley be found . sadly no long open , it leave behind a blast furnace wall and an underground wharf , both now schedule monument . friend of Butterley Ironworks Trust be hope to turn this heritage into good use with a visitor ' centre . I will happily support they with that . Butterley Ironworks may be go , but there be a reminder for I twice weekly , as I walk under the iron arch in St Pancras train station and pass the sign that read , " manufacture by the Butterley Company , derbyshire , 1867 " . the majesty of those iron arch be a constant link between represent Amber Valley in this place and the people responsible for send I here , who I thank greatly and promise to serve in the spirit of the Amber Valley motto , " per laborem progredimur " — " we progress through hard work " .