I believe it be customary in a maiden speech for the Member to pay tribute to their predecessor , which I be very happy to do . Giles Watling be a very decent , nice , honourable man . he be former actor who wear his Garrick club tie . there be nothing even vaguely conservative about he , but he be a jolly nice chap , and it be a clean - fought campaign . early , the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) make reference to Clacton as be the place for a traditional english seaside holiday , and indeed it be , with its pier , mile of sandy beach and arcade . perhaps it be not a holiday destination that be as popular as it use to be , now that people go to Spain and elsewhere , but it be still there . other part of the constituency be genteel and quite wealthy , but if we go to Jaywick we find the most deprived community in the whole United Kingdom . those community have little faith , trust or belief that Government can make their life well . indeed , what I find , when knock on door , be that people be say , " we want to work — we want to get on and make money — but as soon as we work 16 hour a week or more , our benefit get take away , so we ' re well off stay on benefit . " I feel immensely sorry for those people , because the benefit system , which be design to help they , be actually keep they trap in level of relative poverty . I will do my good as the MP for the area to bring business investment — private money — into the constituency , with job , training and skill . I can not promise that I will do it , but I will do my absolute damnedest to make it happen . it be funny , because I spend nearly 21 year as a Member of the European Parliament , in Brussels and with its monthly journey to Strasbourg . I have to say that this place be very different indeed . it be small . there be not a chauffeur - drive Mercedes available for each Member . there be no large lump sum of money that member do not have to spend on anything or show receipt for . I wonder whether that be why so many in the british political system seem to adore the European Union so much , because it be a rather wonderful place to work . what I do not expect be to come here and find that I , with my reform team , be more outnumber here than we be in the European Parliament , because there be more supporter of Brexit in the European Parliament than I sense there be in this Parliament of 2024 . this be very much a remainer ' Parliament . I suspect , in many case , that it be really a rejoiner ' Parliament . if we look at the King ' s Speech , it be interesting that the word " immigration " be mention only twice and " asylum " just once . perhaps that be not a surprise , as when the now Prime Minister lay out the six big priority for the Labour party before the general election , he do not mention legal or illegal immigration . that be the other area in which the five of we sit on the Reform Bench will find ourselves massively outnumber in the House , because we actually want to talk about these issue . I believe that the population explosion be have a big impact on the quality of life of ordinary folk than any other issue . it all start , of course , when the current Home Secretary become a Member of Parliament back in May 1997 . it be worth remind ourselves that net migration be the same during the late 1940 , the whole of the 1950 , the whole of the 1960 , the whole of the 1970 , the whole of the 1980 and in the 1990 , up until Mr Blair . net migration run at 30 , 000 to 50 , 000 a year for over half a century . then Mr Blair get in and decide that we be go to open the door in a way that have never be do before , to the delight and joy of big company , especially giant multinational , who have always want as much cheap labour as they can get , and to hell with the consequence for working - class family and people . perhaps it be even more of a surprise to see that massive acceleration in our population through immigration then far accelerate , because despite promise in four consecutive manifesto , the conservative party actually accelerate what have happen under the year of Mr Blair , so we have see a population increase of 10 million people since the time that Labour win its last landslide . even the net figure be a migrant a minute . even during the course of this debate , many hundred more people will have come to our country . nobody be make the argument that there be not some exceptionally wonderful people among they — there be , of course — but the sheer level of population mean we have to build a new house every two minute . even if the Labour Government be able to fulfil the 1 . 5 million house that they want to build during the lifetime of this Parliament , that will make no dent at all in the current shortage of housing . rent have rise by 25 % since 2021 . why ? Population increase and pressure . the list go on , from access to health service to congestion and pressure on infrastructure . the population crisis have the big impact on people ' s life , damage their quality of life , and virtually nobody in this place even want to talk about it . it be on illegal immigration that I really want to make a point . four year ago , I go out into the english channel repeatedly , film dinghy come across the channel , with an average of 16 people per boat . I be describe as be a sad , lonely , desperate figure , always seek attention , and I have no doubt there be some who think that be still the case today .