prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] before we start today ' s business I would like to say that , as we be almost at the end of term , I hope all right hon . and hon . member have a productive summer and enjoy the recess . I know how busy you will be in your constituency , take the opportunity to make visit that be difficult to schedule during sit time , and continue to pursue all manner of issue on behalf of your constituent , which be incredibly important work . I know too that all right hon . and hon . member will wish to join I once again in thank all the staff of the House , the security staff , the digital service and the catering outlet staff for everything they do to support we . it be much appreciate by member . oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Outdoor Swimming whether she plan to support the uptake of outdoor swimming . outdoor swimming represent one of the many way to stay active . through the together fund , Sport England have provide over £ 80 , 000 for outdoor swimming project . swimming and water safety form a mandatory part of the primary PE national curriculum . the Beccles lido do great work in promote outdoor swimming in the Waveney area , but it and other lido have be particularly hard hit by high energy cost and long - term fix - price contract , often arrange by rogue energy broker . the swimming pool fund be extremely welcome , but I urge my right hon . friend to work with lido to put in place a long - term plan for their future . my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of swimming pool and lido . we announce the swimming pool fund to help those that have be particularly struggle with high energy cost . Sport England also play a vital role in work with local authority on manage sustainable facility , and we will shortly publish our new sport strategy , which will set continued commitment in this area . let we go to the wild swimmer of Strangford lough , Jim Shannon . [ laughter . ] wild swimming conjure up all sort of thing in my mind — probably more emphasis on the wild . I thank the hon . member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) for the question and the Minister for his response . grow up in Ballywalter in the ' 60 — also the age I be right now — there be no swimming pool , and we always use the sea . it be important that water have the quality and cleanliness to allow people to swim , so have the Minister speak to any of the council or authority in Northern Ireland to ensure that our water , include Strangford lough and the sea off Ballywalter , be of a standard that enable people to swim without any fear ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to highlight the importance of the quality of outdoor water , and a lot of work be do to educate child in water safety . I have not have the chance to speak to anybody in Northern Ireland yet , but I understand that I may well be go there during the recess , so I will take the opportunity to do just that . charity Regulation what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the regulation of charity . the Charity Commission perform an important and effective function as the independent registrar and regulator of charity in England and Wales . the commission ' s annual report and account for 2022 - 23 provide a detailed analysis of the its performance and effectiveness . charity law and regulation be of course devolve in both Scotland and Northern Ireland . my question be about Arts Council England , which be of course a register charity . a senior employee there recently win a tribunal claim for harassment on account of her gender - critical belief . in the course of the hearing , it become evident that there be considerable homophobic bias among some staff at Arts Council England , who do not wish the Arts Council to give grant to project initiate by LGB group unless those group accept gender identity ideology . there be evidence that an LGB charity have be describe by Arts Council employee as a " cancer " and " neo - Nazi " . what be the Minister do to tackle the climate of prejudice and bias that have be expose at Arts Council England , a charity that dispense over £ 950 million of public money per annum ? I hope the hon . and learn Lady know that I take all form of discrimination extremely seriously , and there should be no place for that . she raise an individual case . the Arts Council do not come under my portfolio , but I will happily speak to my ministerial colleague about that and ensure that we write to she with an answer . I call the Father of the House . my question be about the regulation of charity , follow on from the question ask by the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) . do my right hon . friend the Minister read Private Eye ? if he do , he will have see the saga of the Actors ' Benevolent Fund , where it appear that the people who do right have be put out and the people who do wrong , over and over again , have be support by the Charity Commission . could he say to the Charity Commission that people in Parliament be watch this with some surprise ? of course the Charity Commission be an independent body , but I have regular meeting with it . I be not a regular reader of Private Eye , but I will make sure that I seek out that article ahead of my next meeting with the Charity Commission . art and Culture : Brexit what assessment she have make of the potential effect of the UK ' s departure from the EU on the UK art and culture sector . the UK art and culture sector have many strong exist positive relationship in Europe , and we be take a number of step to deepen tie . the Government have develop bilateral agreement with european country , and the British Council offer further sector - specific support , include the recently announce spotlight on culture between the UK and France . the UK Trade and Business Commission find that the scottish art and film industry have lose € 27 million in EU funding as a consequence of Brexit , so will the Minister ' s Government make up for that shortfall and the calamity that Brexit have impose on the sector ? while the UK decide not to participate in Creative Europe , nevertheless the UK share prosperity fund , which be a UK - wide funding initiative , have match fund what be originally available from the EU and also give local authority , and indeed nation , control over how that money be spend . BBC Board : complaint Procedure whether she have have discussion with the BBC board on its complaint procedure . the Secretary of State and I meet with the BBC ' s leadership regularly to discuss a range of issue . the BBC ' s process for handle audience complaint about its editorial content be an area of focus of the mid - term review and , as require by the term of reference , the dcms have be consult the BBC on the review ' s finding . we be seek to conclude the review at pace and to report on its finding by 2024 . I look forward to the conclusion of the review . the Minister will know my view : the complaint process within the BBC be utterly inadequate , and I think he agree with I on that . there be no genuine independence in that process and therefore there be a lack of confidence in how that process be work . I hope he will factor those view into make sure that the outcome of the review take on board the need to have a genuinely independent complaint mechanism , so that the public can have confidence in the broadcast . we be aware that research from Ofcom bear out what the hon . Gentleman have say , in that there be considerable dissatisfaction with the exist complaint procedure . that be something about which the BBC be also aware , and we be keen to address it in the mid - term review . so far , we be make good progress in reach agreement with the BBC on how it can be strengthen in the future . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . over the last 10 day , we have see the BBC embroil in a lengthy bout of self - analysis over accusation make about Huw Edwards . for day , the story lead every bulletin and I refuse all request for comment ; I feel I do not know enough detail . I be glad I take that stance . the BBC have announce an investigation , but the police have now say there be no criminality , as originally claim by the Sun . what do the Secretary of State think the lesson might be ? perhaps politician should exercise more caution before issue condemnation about develop story ; maybe we should remember to treat any story in the Sun with extreme caution . give this further example of intrusive prurience , we could all remind ourselves of why there be once widespread agreement about have an independent press regulator with tooth , something the Conservatives once support , before get frighten off by powerful press baron . I say to the hon . Gentleman that , first , this be a matter for the BBC . although the Secretary of State and I do ask to be keep inform by the BBC , it be a matter for the organisation itself and , as he have suggest , it have establish an internal inquiry to find out whether there be any lesson to be learn . with regard to the Sun , it be of course a member of the Independent Press Standards Organisation , which have a code , and if there have be breach of the code , then that be a matter for IPSO to adjudicate on . BBC Local Radio Services what recent discussion she have have with the BBC board on change to local radio service . we recognise the strength of feeling about the importance of BBC local service and we remain disappointed that the BBC be plan to reduce part of its local radio output . this be a matter for the BBC , but Ministers have raise our concern about the BBC ' s plan previously , and we will discuss this issue with the interim chair and the director general at the next opportunity . I think that we all think that digital technology be mean to expand choice . however , in recent time , we have see post office , bank and rail ticket office closure , and the BBC be use the same argument to justify the manage decline of local radio . I see today that we have be tell by the BBC that it want to reach 50 % of the population with its tv , radio and online service after its digital plan be carry out . but I have see in the annual report that it say that it be already at 50 % , so why be it use that as a justification for the vandalism of local radio ? the BBC obviously need to take account of the fact that more and more people be access content online and digitally , and therefore it have decide to invest more in that area . however , it be one that be already well provide for , particularly in the area of local news . it be important that the BBC do not lose sight of the fact that there be still a significant number of people who rely on traditional broadcasting and value local radio . as I have make clear , the Government be disappoint by the BBC ' s decision to reduce local radio output . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . as you know , Mr Speaker , local radio be such a lifeline to many of the elderly , vulnerable and isolated people in our community . I wonder whether the Minister have a view on what the word " public service " in the BBC ' s public service remit actually mean . should that not include reach everyone with local news and information , not just those who be digitally enable ? as I say early , many people still value local radio and will regret and , indeed , be very concerned about the reduction in local radio output that the BBC have propose , particularly in the evening and at weekend . I have no doubt that my hon . friend will take advantage of the opportunity that she have through chair the extremely important Committee oversee the BBC to raise that matter with the director - general again , as indeed will we . I would say that the BBC be very good at show empty chair , but there will now be empty studio if we be not careful , and we certainly do not want to see the end of Radio Lancashire . Independent Commission for Equity in Cricket Report what assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of the report of the Independent Commission for Equity in Cricket entitle " hold up a Mirror To Cricket " publish in June 2023 . discrimination have no place in sport or wide society . the ICEC report make for difficult reading . clearly , the sport need to reflect carefully on the report ' s concern finding and consider how good to deliver clear and sustain cultural change across cricket . the Government will review the finding of the report , and we welcome the England and Wales Cricket Board ' s commitment to bring forward a plan to tackle these serious issue , which must be address in full . after the expos é s of whistleblower such as Azeem Rafiq , the " hold up a Mirror to Cricket " report lay bare the extent of racism , sexism and classism in cricket . over the past couple of year , we have see scandal in cricket , abuse in gymnastic , a whole plethora of issue unearth by the fan - lead review into football and the sport of rugby union undertake a review into its governance , and I fear that , sadly , there will be further such example . just how confident be the Minister that structure be in place to deal with inappropriate and unacceptable behaviour in sport , and do he now feel that there be a need to look into governance in sport more widely ? I have make that issue a priority in the time that I have be in this role , because it do need address . I hold regular meeting with the national governing body of all the sport and I have lay down challenge to they . we need to work together , though . that be why this will form an important part of the new sport strategy . I know that it have take some time , but I have be really clear that I want that issue to be include in it , and to be a central plank of the work that we do when we publish it . in my constituency we have fantastic grassroot cricket club promote inclusivity in the sport during their cricket week . that include club such as Sidcup and national club champion Bexley cricket club . will my right hon . friend join I in thank the club for the work that they do to promote cricket in our community , especially to woman and girl , and Bexley cricket club for its effort to raise fund to address cardiac risk in the young ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that not everything be bad . let we recognise some of the amazing work , particularly of volunteer , who do so much for grassroots sport . he highlight a club in his constituency . it be not just about encourage more people to take part in sport ; club also do tremendous work in the community , as he have just highlight with the fundraising that that club have do . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I wish you a restful recess , Mr Speaker . I put on the record my hope that the Lionesses do very well in the forthcoming World cup . congratulation to the woman ' s english cricket team on a strong performance , and good luck to the man ' s cricket team in try to pull off a great Ashes comeback . I just hope that the Manchester rain hold off . despite the team ' success on the international stage , the ICEC report show that there be a lot to do to increase diversity and participation in cricket . it find that english cricket suffer from sexism , elitism and racism . do the Government understand that they also have a role to play in address those serious finding ? for example , what discussion have the Minister have with the Department for Education about increase the take - up of cricket in state school and ensure well access to pitch , equipment and coaching ? also , do he agree — I be sure he do — that it be about time that the woman ' s team have as much access to Lord ' s cricket ground as Eton and Harrow ? I join the hon . Lady in wish the man and woman ' s England cricket team all the very good , and thank they for what they have do so far , as well as the Lionesses . I be very fortunate that I will be off to Australia on Monday to wave the flag in support of they . [ interruption . ] it be a very difficult job , but someone have to do it . on the serious point that the hon . Lady raise , she be absolutely right . on the day of the publication of the report , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State meet with the England and Wales Cricket Board . we have say that we will be follow the development of its plan very carefully . the hon . Lady be right that we need to see more access to facility for woman and girl , not just at Lord ' s but right across the country . charity sector : cost of live what assessment she have make of the effect of increase in the cost of live on the charity sector . the Government understand that cost of living pressure be impact many in the charity sector , which be face increase demand , reduce income and high running cost . that be why the Government announce a funding package of just over £ 100 million for community organisation in England . as the SNP spokesperson , I be more than happy to swallow my principle and join the Minister on that flight to Australia on Monday . accord to the Charities Aid Foundation , more than a third of charity have have to make cut to their service due to the harm that the Tory cost of living crisis have work on their finance . three in five scottish charity be worried about struggle to survive . only this Government have the financial power to intervene , yet they refuse to do so . be the Government content to let charity , which all too often ameliorate the failure of the state , fail too ? I simply do not recognise that situation . I have just announce that we have give £ 100 million , and some of it be barnetted . I have not hear anything from the Scottish Government about what they be go to do for scottish charity . maybe they should follow our example . the plight of so many charity would be significantly improve if the Secretary of State be to raise the cap on postcode lottery sale , would it not ? I know that my hon . friend have be campaign hard on this issue , and we have a Westminster Hall debate on it very recently . I have commit to look at some of the structure , but we need to see more evidence that the limit already there be not be reach at the moment . I will certainly keep the matter under review . Creative Industries : skill and training what step she be take to support skill and training in the creative industry . the creative industry sector vision set out how we will support individual to get the skill they need to work in the industry . from school to t - level , and from apprenticeship to returner , our ambition be to support 1 million more job in the creative industry by 2030 . yesterday I co - chair a roundtable with the Education Secretary to improve flexi - job apprenticeship in the sector . last week the cultural education plan ' s expert advisory panel meet for the first time , and procurement for creative skill bootcamp be now live . I commend my right hon . friend on the recent creative industry sector vision , which will help to build a pipeline of talent that will underpin the creative industry . do she agree that it be vital that we invest in build the skill throughout the country , recognise that many of the growth sector within the industry be outside London ? that be right . we know that creative business flourish in geographic cluster , from game in Leamington Spa to fashion in Leeds , and we have already announce that we will invest a furth £ 50 million in at least six new cluster , create new centre of excellence that will act as magnet for inward investment and talent . last night be the summer reception of UK Music , and I be there as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on music , along with the shadow Secretary of State and the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Select Committee . if Ministers have be able to come , they would have hear an appeal for more education in the creative sector in our school and for more support for our grassroots venue , which be the research and development of the creative industry , particularly the music industry , and which be suffer from a crisis at the moment . what more be the Government go to do to support education at that level so that skill and training in our creative industry can enable they to keep flourish into the future ? I hope the hon . Gentleman read the sector vision , which include £ 5 million in additional funding for grassroots music venue — something we discuss at the Select Committee . we , too , think it be important to have those creative subject in school ; that be why art , design and music be already in the national curriculum and remain compulsory in all maintain school up to the age of 14 . but that be not all we be do . he mention music , which be incredibly important . that be why we have our new joint national plan for music education , include £ 25 million of funding for musical instrument and equipment for school , and , as I mention , we have our first meeting of the cultural education panel , which be look at how we can ensure we help young people to get more creativity both in and outside school to ensure we have that creative excellence . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the creative industry be a powerhouse of the UK economy , succeed despite the Government ' s good effort to attack the institution that underpin they . with the growth of the creative industry , there be now a huge number of job vacancy , yet it remain one of the least diverse sector in the economy , dominate by white , middle - class people — even more so than banking , law and medium . under this government , we have see a huge drop in creative subject be take at GCSE . will the Secretary of State support Labour ' s new policy to increase music , drama and the art in school and transform our curriculum to meet the need of the future economy , which desperately need creative skill , rather than one that be stick in the past ? the shadow Secretary of State will know that the Prime Minister have identify the creative industry as one of the five sector of growth that we be support as a Government , because they be really important . she mention gcse , but I do not think we should just have music and art at GCSE . we need they at T - level , we need apprenticeship and we need they in primary school . she will know , because I have talk about it incessantly , that that be exactly what we be do and that be what be in our creative sector vision . I will just point out — because I be remind of it the other day — that a Labour Secretary of State for Education and Employment , David Blunkett , slimme down the statutory curriculum for creative education and tell headteacher to teach few creative subject at school . sport Strategy what progress her Department have make on publish a sport strategy . the Government have commit to deliver a refresh sport strategy that will set the long - term strategic policy direction for sport . the strategy will outline the Government ' s future ambition and how we will support the sector to achieve they , and we intend to publish it as soon as possible . I be grateful for the Minister ' s answer . with many more people get into sport , there be also a temptation to get into image and performance - enhance drug . we have see an explosion in that , with estimate of between half a million and 1 million user — and that be an underestimate — from academic , UK Anti - Doping and organisation such as ukactive , which I have meet with . will the Minister look at put a policy in the sport strategy to gather more datum on image and performance - enhance drug in sport ? I praise my hon . friend for be a doughty campaigner on this important issue and thank he for that . he have rightly raise this with I on a number of occasion . the safety and wellbeing of everyone take part in sport be hugely important . that include look at image and performance - enhance drug . since I last meet he , I have raise this with UKAD . we must bring about well collaboration across the Department to ensure that we tackle this issue . gambling - relate Harms what step she be take to tackle gambling - relate harm . I know that the hon . Member have campaign on this issue for a number of year , and I thank she for her ongoing engagement . our White Paper set out measure to tackle product and practice that can drive gambling - relate harm , and they include financial risk check , stake limit on online slot and the new statutory levy . Loot box in gaming be unquestionably a slippery path to normalise gambling . this week ' s announcement on loot box nowhere near fulfil the commitment make in the 2019 conservative party manifesto . with 55 , 000 young people age 11 to 16 already class as problem gambler , and ten of thousand more consider at risk , why be the Government neglect future generation by fail to tackle and prevent gambling disorder at its root ? we have go a long way in the White Paper to do exactly what the hon . Member say , and we have commit to ensure that video game can be enjoy safely by everyone . we convene a technical working group to improve protection on loot box , and it have publish new guidance this week , which we welcome . if that guidance be implement , it have the potential to meet our objective , but I assure she that we will closely monitor what the industry do , to ensure that it implement the guidance in full . we will provide an update in 12 month and keep the option of legislate open . we would be help in our fight against gambling - relate harm if we have well datum on the number of people take their own life as a result of gambling debt . there be a Bill that have clear all its stage in the Lords that would get coroner to record this information . it would not cost the Government a penny . might my right hon . friend lend his support across Government to those responsible for that Bill , so that we have the datum to know what be happen and bear down on this terrible issue ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the tragic consequence for some people . one of the tough part of this role have be meet the family who have be affect in such a way . I will look at the issue he raise , but the new statutory levy enable we to have the funding to do detailed research , which could contribute to that as well . I call the shadow Minister . affordability check and stake limit for online gambling be of course welcome , but give that the Government have already spend three year review and consult on gambling law , why do we need further consultation on what level they should be set at ? there should be no more unnecessary delay . I ask the Minister , what exactly have the Government be do all this time ? I be sure that the hon . Lady would not want I to endanger the implementation of the policy in the White Paper if we do not follow due process , which be what we be do at the moment . we will be start the consultation very soon , and we be on course to implement everything by the summer of next year , as we promise . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the whole House have be enjoy this amazing summer of sport , with the Ashes , Wimbledon and the Grand Prix in recent week . the Open start today , and I be sure the whole House will want to join I in wish the Lionesses well in their first woman ' s World cup match on Saturday . we believe every community should have access to sport facility , and since our last oral question , we have renovate a third of our target of 3 , 000 tennis court across Great Britain . that be also why we have deliver improvement to over 3 , 300 grass - root football facility up and down the UK , to improve and upgrade space where people can get active and enjoy sport . indeed , the football woman ' s World cup start today , so we wish the very good of luck to the european champion , the fantastic Lionesses . last year there be a staggering 83 % drop in the number of european schoolchildren and student visit the UK , hit our tourism sector and lead to a loss of 14 , 500 job and £ 875 million . I be aware of the Prime Minister ' s vague commitment to increase the number of schoolchildren come over from France at the very least , but what exactly be the Government ' s plan to deal with that shocking decline ? I be pleased that the hon . Member mention the discussion that the Prime Minister have have with France . that bilateral arrangement will improve mobility to the UK . it be really important that those young group come , and I can assure the hon . member that I be look at that issue more broadly . one of my constituent , Wendy Metcalfe , have represent England as part of the England woman ' s shore angling team . however , she have recently express concern that a trans woman have be select to join the squad . beach fishing require significant upper body strength , strength in which a male - bear competitor would have a distinct advantage over a woman . will the Minister please confirm that she will speak to the Angling Trust to request that it properly consider the Sports Council Equality Group ' s guidance on who be eligible for its woman ' s team ? these be clearly sensitive issue , and they need careful consideration and respect for those involve . the Government support the Sports Council ' s guidance on transgender participation . when it come to competitive sport , we believe that safety and fairness have to be the primary consideration . I encourage the Angling Trust to engage with the Sports Council ' s guidance as it develop its thinking in this area . I call the shadow Minister . our creative industry be world lead , but they be rightly concerned about the impact of artificial intelligence on their creative endeavour . the Government ' s botched AI and intellectual property plan show that our creative industry play second fiddle when we need genuine partnership between the tech sector and those industry . what be the Secretary of State do to secure , protect and enhance this british success story in the digital age ? the shadow Minister be right to highlight AI , which present potential opportunity as well as challenge , particularly in the domain of copyright and the creative industry . I be actively engage with this issue and have hold a number of meeting with the sector , include with the Creative Industries Council early this week , and with music , press and publish stakeholder over recent week . this afternoon I will again meet with the Minister for AI and Intellectual Property , together with the Intellectual Property Office , to discuss this very issue . many of my constituent think that the BBC licence fee be an outdated , regressive tax , and question why they should have to fund a broadcaster that they do not support and do not want to watch . if a formal review of the BBC ' s funding model be indeed to take place in the autumn , surely abolish the licence fee altogether have to be one of the option consider . the Government have make it clear that the licence fee will remain in place for the remainder of this charter period , but my hon . friend be right that there be challenge go forward . he may be aware that the number of people pay the licence fee have fall by 1 . 9 million in the past five year , and it be therefore right that we look at possible alternative source of funding for the BBC in the long term . that will be the focus of the funding review . we all wish our woman ' s team all the good down under in the World cup that start today — we be all a bit envious of the Minister — but at the same time , our national team be still do battle with the Football Association over pay . how soon do the Government expect to implement the recommendation of Karen Carney ' s review so that the beautiful game raise up standard for woman , include Chloe Kelly from Acton , my favourite Lioness ? the hon . Lady be right to raise this important area . I be extremely grateful , as we all be in the Department , to Karen Carney for such an in - depth review of woman ' s football . we be obviously look at the recommendation she make in that report , and that will be a continuous agenda item in my regular discussion with the fa . my right hon . friend be aware of the ongoing crisis at Southend United , where staff have go unpaid for month and the 117 - year - old club ' s future be on a knife edge , which be absolutely devastating for the 6 , 000 - plus loyal fan base . please will my right hon . friend agree to meet the Shrimpers Trust , my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) and I , urgently , to see what more can be do to save this vital community asset for the new city of Southend ? order . can I just say that nobody else be now go to get in on topical , because this be the last question . Minister , we do have to think about other people . it be too short a Question Time , but if it be short , we need to help each other to get through it . can I praise my hon . friend for the tremendous amount of work she have be do on behalf of her constituent and the fan at Southend ? I know how hard she be work . of course , I would be more than happy to meet the fan group , as I have with those of other club , but I think this highlight the need for the independent football regulator . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Midlothian , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Voter ID : National Elections what recent discussion the Committee have have with the Electoral Commission on the adequacy of the implementation of voter ID requirement for national election . I thank my hon . friend for the question . the Committee discuss the commission ' s work to support the implementation of voter ID at its public evidence session in March . a transcript of that session be available on the Committee ' s website . the commission have also publish an initial analysis of voter ID in the May local election in England , say that further work be require to ensure voter ID do not become a barrier to voting and that election remain accessible to everyone . the commission be undertake further research and will make recommendation for improvement in its full election report to be publish in September , and it will continue to run public awareness activity and provide guidance to electoral administrator ahead of future election where voter ID be require . I thank my hon . friend for that answer . the commission ' s interim report indicate that 14 , 000 people be turn away due to voter ID restriction in England , and it warn of concern sign that voter with disability , those who be unemployed or those from particular ethnic group be disproportionately affect . give that it say that 4 % of people who do not vote say it be due to lack of voter ID , what step be be take to ensure that hundred of thousand of voter be not turn away at the next general election ? I again thank my hon . friend for that question . it be too soon to draw conclusion about the impact of voter ID on specific group of people , but the commission have say that some of the emerge evidence be concern , with the example that datum suggest that disabled people and those who be unemployed be more likely than other to give ID as a reason for not vote . election should be accessible to everyone , so the commission be work to build a well understanding of specific experience . as I say , the commission be undertake further research and will make recommendation in its full election report to be publish in September , and it will work with the Government and the electoral community to ensure that election remain accessible to all . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — ordinand what recent step the Church of England have take to increase the number of ordinand . I be very pleased to be able to tell my hon . friend that there be 1 , 100 clergy in training in 2022 - 23 , and that £ 10 . 3 million have be give to 25 diocese to fund more curacy post and £ 4 . 3 million have be give to 19 diocese to make sure that clergy leave training have a post of first responsibility to go to . in Old Bexley and Sidcup , we be fortunate to have many fantastic church and faith leader support our community . will my hon . friend join I in thank they all and congratulate St Mary the Virgin church and parish in Bexley village , which celebrate an incredible 900th anniversary this year ? I be delighted that St Mary the Virgin in Bexley will be celebrate its 900th anniversary with the Bishop of Rochester in November . I know that it be a church dedicate to serve its local community , with particularly impressive youth work , and I would like to commend the Rev . renate Tulloh and the Bexley team ministry for all the good work that they do , which be notice and greatly appreciate . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Midlothian , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Election Guidance whether the Electoral Commission have issue recent guidance on election to political party and candidate . the commission regularly publish guidance for political party , candidate and non - party campaigner to help they comply with their legal obligation . it recently submit for ministerial and parliamentary approval draft statutory guidance on digital imprint and a draft code of practice for non - party campaigner . these will support party and campaigner to understand and prepare for challenge introduce by the Elections Act 2022 . be the commission prepare any guidance about this new trend we have of member of this House , who may be candidate at the next election , be give their own tv programme on some of the new news channel and interview member of the Government from their own Benches in the lead - up to a general election ? what be the Electoral Commission do about that ? I thank the hon . member for his excellent question . the Committee have not discuss those matter with the commission as yet . the Electoral Commission do not have a role in the regulation of political or news programme . Ofcom be responsible for regulate broadcaster and provide guidance on impartiality , but if the Member want to take up this issue far with the commission , it would be more than happy to meet he . will the commission look closely at the fact that member of this House have television programme ? I be invite on to a television programme by two member of this House , and I do not accept that invitation . there be surely something wrong with member in this House ask question at the same time as they be run very political campaign on television . what will the hon . Gentleman do about that ? the point be well make . as I have say , the Committee have not discuss this matter with the commission , but I be sure that the comment make by hon . member will be hear . as I offer to the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , I be sure that if the hon . member for Huddersfield want to discuss this matter far with the commission , it would be more than happy to meet he . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners be ask — Community Sponsorship Scheme what recent step the Church of England have take to participate in the community sponsorship scheme . I be able to reassure my right hon . friend that the Church remain closely involve with the Ukraine community sponsorship scheme . many bishop and churchgoer and hundred of clergy have open their home to host ukrainian evacuee . that be reassure , give the wind - up that the bishop raise in the House of Lords over the Illegal Migration Bill . what more can the Church do to encourage people to support and take in Ukrainians ? the Church of England be develop a new strategy for community sponsorship , build on the launch of community sponsorship in 2016 by Amber Rudd , when Home Secretary , and the Archbishop of Canterbury at Lambeth Palace . the Church will continue to use its presence in every community to raise the profile of community sponsorship , as it have be demonstrate to work well for all concerned . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Midlothian , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Political Donations from Overseas whether the Committee have have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the transparency of political donation from overseas . the Committee have not have a recent discussion with the commission on that issue . the commission publish information about donation to ensure transparency , and it have power to sanction political party that accept impermissible foreign donation . it have highlight that the political finance system be vulnerable to unlawful influence from donation overseas and in the UK , and it have recommend that party should be require to know not just who a donor be but where the money for the donation be come from . it have also recommend that party have policy in place to manage the risk of receive money from unlawful source . the commission have say that party should not be permit to accept donation from company that exceed their profit make in the UK . the executive director of Spotlight on Corruption , Susan Hawley , say that the Tory UK Government ' s " abject failure " to take decisive action on overseas donation be concern our ally . she also say that election be at risk of interference from Russia and other hostile state after the Government oppose the move to require political party to verify and disclose the source of political donation . what step be the commission take to prevent overseas donation from hostile state that undermine electoral law ? have the commission ask the security service to undertake a review of political finance ? speak as a representative of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , it would be a matter for the security service to make a full assessment of whether unlawful foreign money have be use to campaign in UK election . however , political party must report when they be give an unlawful donation and return it to the donor . in addition , the commission carry out check on permissibility on a sample of donation and have the power to sanction political party that accept impermissible foreign donation . the commission have say that it take all possible step within the current regulatory framework to prevent unlawful foreign money from enter UK politic , and it publish information about donation to ensure transparency . it have the power to sanction , but it can not take enforcement action against organisation base outside the UK . the commission will continue to recommend change to ensure that voter can have great confidence in political finance in the UK . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners be ask — Uganda : Anti - Homosexuality Act what discussion the Church of England have have with church in Uganda follow the passage of the Anti - Homosexuality Act 2023 in that country . the Archbishop of Canterbury have write directly to Archbishop Kaziimba of Uganda remind he of the commitment make by the anglican communion to treat every person with the care and respect they deserve as child of God and that the communion oppose the criminalisation of LGBT + people . the Archbishop of Canterbury have say that the Act be a fundamental departure from the commitment to uphold the freedom and dignity of all people ; it be not in our resolution , not in our teaching and not in the Gospel of Jesus we share together . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his response and for the concern share by the Archbishop of Canterbury . what more can the Church say to Anglicans across the UK who do not in any way , shape or form believe the death penalty for any crime be compatible with christian teaching , and to those member of the LGBT community who be rightly horrify by event in Uganda ? I very much understand my hon . friend ' s concern on this issue , which be share by many other . as I be sure he know , each province of the anglican communion be autonomous . in 2016 , however , the primate in the anglican communion reaffirm the rejection of criminal sanction against same sex - attract people and commit to respect the dignity and value of every person . it be hard to see how the position take by the Church of Uganda align with the 2016 agreement . ordination of Clergy if the Church of England will make an assessment of the potential merit of refuse to ordain clergy who do not personally recognise the ordination of woman as diocesan bishop . the Church of England be fully commit to all order of ministry be open equally to all without reference to gender . the Church be also commit to ensure that those who can not in good conscience receive the ministry of woman priest or bishop be able to flourish ; the five guide principle of the House of Bishops be the basis for this mutual flourishing and all candidate for ordination have to assent to they . it be now 29 year since we have the first woman priest and nine year since the first female bishop be appoint in our established Church of England . it therefore seem to I that there have be many year to adapt to treat woman as equal in the sight of God . give that , be it really appropriate for the Church of England to continue appoint clergy , as happen recently in Blackburn , who have not accept and who will never personally accept the ordination of woman ? I can tell the right hon . Lady that a new body be establish last year to review how the five guide principle be be understand , implement and receive in the Church and that it have a balanced membership of bishop , clergy and laity who reflect all view on these matter . I call the Father of the House . I speak as a supporter of WATCH , the Women and the Church group . the Church Commissioners should understand that either the Church of England get rid of what ought to have be temporary exemption from the Equality Act 2010 or Parliament will do that for it . do my hon . friend understand that other mp who be interested in full equality for woman would like to meet the Church Commissioners before we consider what other action we might take ? I have very clearly hear what my hon . friend the Father of the House and indeed the very respected Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) have just say . the Church will have hear that as well and we be of course available for meeting at any time . freedom of Religion and Belief what recent step the Church of England have take to help protect freedom of religion and belief in other country . I be pleased to tell my hon . friend , who serve with distinction as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , that the United Nations Security Council have recently adopt a resolution to produce an annual report on freedom of religion and belief . it be sponsor by the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates , and the resolution be base on the Bishop of Truro ' s review and incorporate many of his original recommendation . that be indeed a very positive development . my hon . friend will have see another report , produce by former BBC reporter David Campanale and other forb expert for the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance , which I chair , on the ongoing major violence in Manipur , India . it indicate that since early May alone hundred of church there have be destroy , many burn to the ground ; more than 100 people have be kill and over 50 , 000 displace ; and school and seminary have be target in what look like systematic and premeditated attack with religion a key factor . there have be very little report about this . People there be call out for help ; what can the Church do to draw more attention to their cry ? my hon . friend have do a great service by put this matter on the record in the House . I be sure that she , like I , would like to see much great reporting of these issue by the BBC and other . what she have tell we be truly shocking , and I know that the Archbishop of Canterbury , who visit India in 2019 to see the challenge at first hand , remain extremely concerned that such attack have be worsen and spread to other minority faith community , so I will bring my hon . friend ' s report on Manipur directly to the Archbishop ' s attention . I thank the hon . gentleman for his response to the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , who do such fantastic work as the ambassador for not only the Prime Minister but all of we in the House . in February , I visit Pakistan with the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . far to what the hon . Gentleman say , will he advise the House on what step the Church of England be take to support the anglican ministry in Pakistan and to defend the right of Pakistani Christians to practise their faith and express their belief without fear of repression ? I talk early this week with Dr Sammy Wainaina , the Archbishop ' s new adviser on anglican communion affair , and he specifically mention Pakistan , so I be grateful that the hon . Gentleman have mention it . he be right that the situation there be extremely challenging — priest have be murder — and the Archbishop visit quite recently . I express particular gratitude to the two hon . member who have put these matter on the record this morning ; they be right to do so and I hope they continue to do so . family Relationships , Parenting and marriage to ask the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , what recent step the Church of England have take to help support family relationship , parenting and marriage . the Archbishop ' s recent " Love Matters " commission on family issue make 36 recommendation for the Church of England and 29 for the Government . they include support family hub , develop high - quality marriage preparation , and build relational capability at all life stage and not just for couple who be prepare for marriage . I will place a copy of that report and the previous one in the Library . a strong and stable family unit undoubtedly provide the good environment in which to raise child . what step be the Church of England take to provide relationship support and guidance to those family who need it to help they to stay together ? that be a really important question . the Children ' s Commissioner have point out that almost a quarter of UK family be head by a lone parent ; that compare with an average of an eighth of family in Europe . the Bishop of Durham , who co - chair the commission , want to see every deanery in the Church of England offer the very good marriage preparation to all couple , and for the Church to support their relationship at every life stage . sitting suspend . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 4 September will be : Monday 4 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , follow by Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill . Tuesday 5 September — remain stage of the Energy Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 6 September — if necessary , consideration of Lords message to the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Bill , follow by an Opposition day ( 18th allotted day second part ) debate in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Thursday 7 September — debate on a motion on hormone pregnancy test , follow by a general debate on funding for the prevention of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 8 September — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 11 September include : Monday 11 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the Online Safety Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for the forthcoming business , but I be disappointed that two piece of important House business seem to be miss . first , there be no mention of when MPs will get to debate and vote on the Commission ' s proposal to introduce a new process for deal with mp accuse of violent or sexual offence . the Leader of the House be not able to answer I when I ask about the matter last week , so I would be grateful if she could do so today . she and I have work hard on this together , as well as with you , Mr Speaker , the commissioner , staff and the trade union . we can not lose momentum . I know the Leader of the House agree with I that the propose new mechanism be need to reduce the risk of harm to all those who work on and visit the parliamentary estate , so will she give we some clarity , show all the people listen that we be make progress and tell we when the House will get the chance to vote on it ? I be also concerned that the Leader of the House have still not announce when the House will consider the Standards Committee ' s report on the conduct of the right hon . member for Tamworth ( Christopher Pincher ) , the finding of which be shocking . colleague and staff have be ask when the House will get the opportunity to approve the report and endorse the sanction . he have bring this House into disrepute and frankly should no long be a member of it . will the Leader of the House tell we whether she know if the Member will be resign or if he have appeal the Committee ' s sanction ? either way , she could table the motion as a remain order , even without a date attach . when will she bring forward a motion so that the House can vote and move on ? I wish all member , Members ' staff , House staff and everyone who work on the parliamentary estate a very happy summer recess . as we come to the end of term and head back to work in our own community , it be worth reflect on what the Government have achieve — or not — this year . People I have be speak to up and down the country be simply feed up . nothing work in this country any more , and the Tories have simply give up do anything about it . I see on the Order Paper today that the Leader of the House be due to announce the date of the next king ' s Speech in a write ministerial statement — perhaps I could press she to give we an early sighting of that now — but the Government have nowhere near finish with the last set of new law they say they be go to pass . the Prime Minister have be catch out , overpromise and massively under - deliver , include on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which be initially promise four year ago and so many member across the House say they want . there be no transport Bill , no school Bill and no mental health Bill . why do the Leader of the House think that work people will believe that this Government be go to make people ' s live well this time ? on top of all that , price be still go up at staggering rate , and family be bear the brunt of the Tory cost of living crisis . that be what the people of Selby and Ainsty , Uxbridge and South Ruislip , and Somerton and Frome will be think about when they head to the ballot box today , feed up and want change . labour be the party of change . we have a proper plan to grow our economy , to bring down Bills , to secure the energy this country need and to tackle climate change . People will have welcome the opportunity to vote Labour today in three constituency , and send the Tories a message , but be it not time that we have a general election , so the whole country get the chance to have their say ? first , let I put on the record my good wish to the Lionesses for their first match on Saturday . of course , after hear the tragic news today , our thought be with all those catch up in the Auckland shooting . may I also mention our pride at what our nation have do to speed up new solution to tackle dementia , follow the announcement of a future new drug this week ? with the 2013 G8 dementia push by David Cameron , which lead to the World Dementia Council , the 2015 joint dementia research platform and the Prime Minister ' s challenge on dementia , our 2019 funding commitment and the establishment of the Dame Barbara Windsor Dementia Mission , our nation and this Government have do more than any other to tackle this issue , and I think we should all take great pride in that . turn to the issue raise by the shadow Leader of the House , regard the report on the right hon . member for Tamworth ( Christopher Pincher ) , she will know that he have a right of appeal . that run out at the end of today , so we be not able to do anything until the House return from recess . as she know , I do not control the timetable for that ; it be control by the Standards Committee when it publish its report . that be the process . as a member of the Commission , she know what work we have be do , and I be grateful to she for acknowledge on the record my commitment to the scheme to ensure that everyone who work on the estate be properly protect and we have good safeguard policy in place . as soon as we have a settle scheme , we will bring forward the debate on it . I , too , thank all colleague and the staff of the House for the work they have do . we have achieve a tremendous amount . in the last nine month , we have introduce 16 Bills in addition to reintroduce the Data Protection and Digital Information ( no . 2 ) Bill . ten Government Bills have reach Royal Assent , with more to follow shortly . we have publish two draft Bills , which be undergo pre - legislative scrutiny — the Media Bill and the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill — and 13 private Member ' s Bills have reach Royal Assent , with three more to follow shortly . I thank all colleague for help with the legislative agenda to support delivery , include of the Prime Minister ' s five priority — the thing that matter the most to the people of this country — as we recover from the pandemic and global shock . in stark contrast to the picture paint by the shadow Leader of the House , we be deliver . we be tackle debt , halve inflation and grow our economy . we be take responsible decision to get debt fall , help household with the cost of live and address inflation through measure include energy bill support , fuel duty cut and increase competition . yesterday , we have well than expect fall inflation figure ; today , we have see average mortgage rate fall for the first time in many month . we be control spending and increase public sector productivity . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that measure in the Budget cause it to revise its growth forecast up ; we have receive the large ever upward forecast of the G7 this year , and our long - term growth forecast be strong than those for Germany , France and Italy . we be also work to cut waiting list . we be create 160 new diagnostic centre , 108 of which be already open . we be deliver 4 million additional scan and test , 100 new operating theatre deliver 2 million more operation by the next financial year , and over 12 , 000 more nurse than a year ago and 5 , 000 more doctor — we have smash our manifesto commitment on recruitment . new digital health check be prevent stroke and heart attack . record funding will deliver 9 million more procedure over the next three year , a 30 % increase in elective activity and 5 , 000 more hospital bed . we be release 10 million more doctor ' s appointment through our Pharmacy First service . finally , we be stop the boat . we have take new power to protect our border , even though the Labour party vote to dismantle the Bill more than 70 time . we have 700 more staff work in immigration enforcement and we have increase the number of caseworker deal with the backlog . since the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 be pass , 653 people have be arrest , lead to conviction total over 170 year of jail time . Home Office initial asylum decision be up 30 % on last year , and small boat arrival be down 10 % . some 11 , 000 small boat crossing have be thwart , and illegal work enforcement visit be up 50 % . on top of all that , this week we conclude our accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership and launch Great British Nuclear , and after business question , we will have a statement on £ 4 billion of investment in a new gigafactory . we continue to work on the thing that matter to the people of this country . these be tough time , but we be deliver , and that be what we will be judge on , and in these tough time , I be glad that it be my party at the helm . I can confirm that the state opening of Parliament will take place on 7 November . I wish everyone a happy recess . finally : vote Purbrick , Tuckwell and Holmes ! I call Sir Peter Bottomley , the Father of the House . yesterday , thank to my right hon . friend and Team Lewis , I be able to meet Les Wateridge , who , as many will know , spend decade keep the street of Westminster clear , especially around Victoria Tower Gardens . the day before , Anita Lasker - Wallfisch come to Parliament . she be 98 . she be in the woman ' s orchestra at Auschwitz , and then survive Bergen - Belsen . may I invite the Government , the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and the leader of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation to meet Anita , and hear her view on why the propose memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens be too large for the garden , and too small to be a proper memorial to those who die while she be incarcerate ? I know that my hon . friend care very deeply about this issue and the memorial , as do all member of the House , despite their different view . as we be go into recess , there will not be an opportunity for he to question either the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on this matter , so I shall make sure that they hear of his invitation , and I shall write to they on his behalf . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . this may be the last time I face the Leader of the House at business question ; if the rumour be true , she be about to be move again in yet another " deckchair on the Tory Titanic " reshuffle . it be a shame ; she be just get the hang of business question , by which I mean that , like other Tory Ministers at the Dispatch Box , she consistently avoid answer the question . if anyone doubt that , last week , when I ask she about the Prime Minister ' s inflation and debt pledge , I get a lecture in response about nuclear weapon and afternoon coffee break , and then she describe I as " delusional " . there be no hope that the Government will change course ; 13 year of austerity and incompetence be bake in . we be talk about a Government who force Brexit on Scotland , and who refuse to allow the scot even the right to choose their own future ; a Budget that tank the economy and push the pension sector to the brink of collapse ; an inhuman and degrading immigration regime ; former Prime Ministers who can not even remember their phone password for a covid inquiry ; and a current pm who appear to think that argue with bank on behalf of an individual be the most important thing to focus on in the midst of a cost of living crisis , and just a day before three by - election . doctor , nurse and teacher be all strike in England . accord to the Transport Secretary , it be now expect that political party will pay out for the action of their donor and associate — a surprising tack to take , as his party can now surely expect a veritable torrent of invoice to wing their way to Conservative HQ in the near future . the people of Scotland know , of course , that there be a well way than what we have to put up with here . Scotland have hope of a well way than endless Westminster failure and arrogance ; it have hope of a future that hold real prospect of a well life for our family and community . probably for the last time , in the vain hope of an answer , I ask a question of the Leader of the House : with food inflation still run at an estimate 17 . 3 % , can we have a debate on how the Government get we in such a hopeless mess ? let I start by say how much I enjoy our exchange every week , and how disappointed I should be if it be , indeed , to be our last . however , I feel that it be my duty to point out to the hon . Lady the error of what she assert . she talk about deny the people of Scotland a choice in respect of their future . we be the Government who give the scottish people , as well as other resident of the United Kingdom , a vote on their future , in respect of both scottish independence and Brexit . the difference between the hon . Lady ' s party and mine be that we honour the result of referendum . I know that the hon . Lady and her party have be campaign hard on the two - child policy this week , so let I illustrate the power and the opportunity that sit in her party ' s hand . it may interest she to know that the project black hole in the SNP ' s budget , identify by the Scottish Fiscal Commission as a huge £ 1 . 9 billion in the next four year , be enough money not only to reverse that policy in Scotland , but to reverse it for the whole of the UK . as a Minister at the Department for Work and Pensions , I be amazed at the length to which the SNP would go not to take control over many aspect of welfare policy that we wish to devolve to it , choose instead to criticise the UK Government for the decision that they be make . the hon . Lady ' s party be in power in Scotland . it pain I that it be in power , but it be and have be for many year , so it be time that its member take some responsibility . early this week , in the pakistani province of Sindh , two Hindu temple be ransack and 30 woman and child be take hostage by armed insurgent . they be claim that until a young pakistani woman , Seema Haider , who wish to marry an indian man , return to Pakistan , they will not release the woman and child . the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan have condemn the move . may I ask my right hon . friend to urge the Foreign Secretary to make the strong possible representation to the pakistani authority to ensure that the woman and child be free and return to their home and love one immediately ? I thank my hon . friend for bring the House ' s attention to a very serious situation , as he so often do . he be the second high attender of business question , and he always raise important matter . we be deeply concerned about this situation . I will make sure that the Foreign Secretary be fully aware of it , and we urge the pakistani authority to investigate any allegation fully , prosecute those responsible , and provide justice for the victim and their family . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . perhaps I be the next most prolific attender . I thank the Leader of the House for the business statement and , in particular , for announce the Backbench Business for the week begin Monday 4 September . if we be award the time , we shall have a very interesting topic to debate on Thursday 14 September , namely the relationship between football and early - onset dementia . the application for that debate be well subscribe . I also thank the Leader of the House for write to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport on my behalf follow last week ' s exchange . that be an important topic as well , and it be refer to early this morning during question to the Secretary of State . you may remember , Mr Speaker , that 21 April be my birthday — a birthday that I share with her late Majesty the Queen . on 21 April this year , I write to the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities raise the serious concern of constituent who continue to be affect by ongoing fire safety concern follow the Grenfell Tower tragedy . I have not have the birthday present of a reply since 21 April . I have seek the Secretary of State ' s advice on how leaseholder should proceed when a developer have sign up to the Government ' s much - publicise charter but then refuse to pay for the cost of any initial survey to ascertain what work need to be do . many hundred of leaseholder in Gateshead be stick in limbo , unable to sell or pay for remedial work and unable to pay for survey . will the Leader of the House please ask the Secretary of State to respond to my request on behalf of my constituent ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his top attendance at business question and for the helpful advert for future debate and opportunity to secure they . I be sorry that he have not yet receive a response — that be well out of time . give that we be go into recess and these be issue that all our constituent will be face , I shall contact the Secretary of State , as the hon . gentleman request , and ask he to update colleague , perhaps by a " dear colleague " letter , so that we know the good advice to give our constituent on these important matter . may we have a debate on the importance of local high street , so that I can express my opposition to idea float by BYM Capital to redevelop the Spires shopping centre in Barnet High Street ? the plan involve too many flat and building that be far too high , and unless they be change , they must be reject . I thank my right hon . friend for her focus on matter that I be sure be of great concern to her constituent . she will know that successive Conservative Administrations have feel it important to devolve power down to a local level , to give local resident more control over shape their local plan and the design guide that accompany it . she raise an important point and I know that she will be campaign on behalf of her constituent to ensure that the right decision be take . summer holiday should be a time for child to get out and about and enjoy themselves , but almost half of parent say that the cost of living crisis have have a negative impact on the number of opportunity their child have to be physically active and to take part in sport . may we have a debate , in Government time , on the impact of the cost of live crisis on the ability of child , particularly those from low - income family , to participate in the sport they love ? that be an important matter and a timely one , as we be go into the summer recess . the hon . Lady will know that the Government spend about £ 200 million on holiday activity for family and , through the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , we work with many sporting body that will be offer particular activity , especially over the summer , that enable people to try new activity and take they up , whatever their resource . I will ask the Secretary of State to update all member on what those opportunity might be , but I know that many sporting organisation take their outreach work and support for all community very seriously indeed . I have another sport question . our community sport organisation in Wolverhampton do so much for public health , whether it be Wednesfield Aces cycle speedway , fordhouse cricket club or our two gurdwara . may we have a debate on support and funding for grassroots sport organisation ? will the Leader of the House also join I in congratulate Henry Searle , the first british tennis player to lift the Wimbledon boy championship title , which he do last Sunday ? the whole of Wolverhampton be beam with pride at Henry ' s achievement . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] my hon . friend will be able to tell by the noise from around the Chamber that we all want to congratulate Henry on that fantastic achievement . she will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . I know that many colleague value the support and funding that go into grassroots sport . she will know that that have be a priority for the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero have provide additional fund for sporting venue , such as swimming pool , that have very high energy cost , to ensure that access to those important facility be maintain . this morning , Viaplay , the broadcaster right holder for the Scottish , Welsh and Northern irish man ' s football team , announce that it be try to sell off all of its UK - base right . a meeting be promise by the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport back in December and despite my continual chasing since then , include bring up the matter at business question with the Leader of the House and at Prime Minister ' s question in recent week , I have still not be able to secure a meeting with the Secretary of State . will the Leader of the House give she a nudge so that we can have this urgent meeting ? a few week ago , I have the honour and privilege of meet Miss J , a campaigning survivor who be try to raise awareness of the toxic culture and sexual misconduct in sport . importantly , she be try to get all professional sport team in Scotland to sign up to and implement a sexual misconduct policy as soon as possible . will the Leader of the House join I in support the important work that Miss J be carry out and make time for a statement to tell we what the Government be do on this important issue ? with regard to the first issue , I remember write to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport and her Department to ask she to do that , so I will chase it up . if the hon . Gentleman give I more information about the policy that his constituent be champion — it sound very worthwhile — I will raise that with the Secretary of State as well . I wish his constituent good luck in what they be try to achieve . Virgin Media recently upgrade some landline in Cleethorpes , but it advise its customer via text that there would be a short period of disconnection . unfortunately , not everyone have access to text , such as the 92 - year - old lady in my constituency who bring the matter to my attention . can we have a debate about how these large organisation exclude many people who do not have broadband or mobile connection ? there be audible groan across the Chamber at that , because we all know of company that do not enable all their customer to get access to the information they need . it be quite lazy . one thing the Government can do be ensure that we be increase competition . work that the Prime Minister commission while he be Chancellor be enable that , and further competition be support by many of the Bills we bring forward in this session . I hope that Virgin Media have hear what have be say on the Floor of the House today and will reconsider its approach to communicate with their valuable customer . the report into the North East Ambulance Service be now in the public domain , and the Department for Health and Social Care have respond with what I understand to be an open letter . give the seriousness of the matter inquire into , and the fact that the process be initiate by a whistleblower to a national newspaper , will there be an opportunity for the House to debate the report ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this serious matter , and I shall ensure that the Secretary of State have hear his request . I be sure that the House will want to focus on the matter , particularly those member whose constituent be directly affect . the right hon . Gentleman obviously know how to apply for a debate if he want to , but I will make sure that the Department hear what he have say today . at the weekend I visit Brumby gymnastic club , where I meet Gail and Rick Brady . they have be volunteer at the club for 40 year , make a tremendous contribution to the community in Scunthorpe . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate and thank they for that work ? will she also support a debate in Government time so that we can recognise and support the people who do such fantastic work in our community ? I be sure we all join my hon . friend in thank Rick and Gail for their incredible work for her constituent over many decade . she be right to praise the contribution that volunteer make to our community , and the Government also value that , which be one of the drive force behind the Points of Light award . if my hon . friend apply for a debate , I be sure that it would be well attend , with lot of pat on back for the many thousand of volunteer who do such great work in their community day in , day out . as we go into recess , I have be strike by the number of right hon . and hon . member who have tell I that they intend to take their summer holiday in Orkney and Shetland this year . I be sure that , like the rest of the world , they be attract by our breathtake scenery , our wildlife , our birdlife , our world heritage site and our quality local food and drink offering . I fear that we be also attractive to mps because in so many part of the Northern Isles , they will not be bother by their mobile phone ringing . it be great for holiday mp , but it be a bit of a pain for the rest of we , so when we come back in September , can we have an update from her ministerial colleague on the share rural network scheme ? I congratulate the right hon . member on provide a wonderful advert for any member who be not plan on holidaying in his constituency and reason why they should . he raise a serious matter , and I will certainly ensure that the two Departments that be most relevant to this have hear what he say . Darlington rotary club will be celebrate its centenary this year . the club have contribute significantly to our local community and I praise it for all the work it do . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Darlington rotary club on its centenary and will she find time for we to have a debate on the significant and tangible impact of rotary in our community across the UK ? my hon . friend be right about the incredible contribution that rotary club make , and not just to work in the UK — if we be to draw up a list of organisation that have help to eradicate polio around the world , rotary club would be at the top of it , have enable vaccination programme to take place all over the world . I understand that he be a Rotarian , as be our Prime Minister at the same rotary club as he , so I think the centenary party will be quite something . last week , I have the privilege of see the fantastic graduation show of Newcastle Theatre Royal ' s Project A , which provide intensive , world - class , affordable training for actor in the north - east and Newcastle . I also recently see the wonderful West end symphony orchestra , which provide intensive one - to - one tuition but be about to lose its funding . Project A be hugely over - subscribed . can we have a debate in Government time on what the Government be do to ensure that the art be accessible to working - class and regional talent ? while we be at it , give that Mickey Mouse be probably the most valuable creation to come from an artist ' s pen , can the Leader of the House tell I when an art degree be a Mickey Mouse degree ? I say last week that the nation be not just stem - powered — the hon . Lady be a great champion for that . it be also steam - powered . the art and cultural and creative industry be incredibly important to this economy . she will know that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Department for Culture , Media and Sport and her predecessor have do a huge amount of work to ensure that the whole of the UK get its fair share of funding to support these sector and that the enjoyment of their product be accessible to all . I be sure the hon . Lady have raise those specific project with the Secretary of State . if she have not have an opportunity to do that , I be happy to do so on her behalf . she will soon be able to get a clear map of all the funding that have go into her local area over many year , and have see a draft of the map , I think it be considerable . although it be welcome to see school budget increase again , can we look at the situation whereby school in my constituency and central Bedfordshire get a lot less per pupil than those just over the border in Buckinghamshire and Hertfordshire ? we be amend the police funding formula to make it fair . can we please look at the same issue for school funding ? it really be not fair to differentiate in that way . my hon . friend raise a very important matter and he be absolutely right . we be increase per pupil funding . we have introduce additional support for special educational need , and we have be do a lot of work in the capital programme to restore school building and enable new school to be establish . however , give that we be go into recess , I will write on his behalf to the Secretary of State for Education and the Chancellor to ensure that they consider this matter . I be sure the Leader of the House will agree that , when a Minister give an undertaking in the Chamber to meet with an hon . member , an official in the Box ought to be make a note and follow up . that system seem to have break down , and hon . member ' staff spend an age try to chase down those in ministerial private office . Mr Speaker , I be sure both you and the Leader of the House will be surprised to hear that my office be recently tell that the Home Office switchboard have no record of the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , the Minister for Immigration — [ Laughter . ] it be not really funny . clearly , from what my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) say early , this be a problem affect all hon . member . can we have a debate in Government time on the quality of ministerial response to request make on the Floor of this House ? I hope the hon . and learn Lady know I take this matter very seriously . be able to get hold of people , particularly during recess , be extremely important . if she would like to give I and my office some detail about the specific issue she be try to get an answer on , I would be happy to follow that up , and I will give the Home Office a nudge to ensure that all hon . member be able to get hold of Ministers during recess in particular , if something should happen during the break . as the Government forge ahead with initiative , policy and trade deal that we be unable to do when we be a member of the EU , would my right hon . Friend allow a debate on Brexit benefit , particularly the support the UK Government be give to fishing and seafood processing company and our preparedness as we take back full control of all our fishing quota in 2026 ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; one of the reason we leave the EU be to enable those opportunity across all sector , but particularly fishing and food producer . we negotiate successfully a significant uplift in our quota share follow our exit from the EU , as she well know , value at about £ 101 million in new fishing opportunity for the UK fleet in this year alone . the UK seafood fund be invest £ 100 million into the long - term future of the UK fishery sector , help to drive innovation , support job creation and boost seafood export into new market — [ interruption . ] I hear a yell from a sedentary position ; I be not sure quite who it come from . those opportunity could be maximise if the Scottish Government engage more with their local coastal community on their plan for protect marine area . I hope the Leader of the House will agree that we have a pretty good tradition in this country of open , free , democratic , honest election . do she share my concern that there be evidence in the recent past — not just in the UK , but elsewhere — of malign influence on election from China , from Russia and even , some people have say , from India ? will she ensure that we have an early debate when the House get back , since an election be imminent , to look at way of protect our democracy from foreign influence of all kind ? this be an extremely important issue and I thank the hon . gentleman for raise it . he will know that my right hon . friend the Security Minister be lead a taskforce design to protect and strengthen democracy , primarily in the UK , although it will also have benefit for other nation around the world . our democracy be precious ; we can not take it for grant and , if people start to lose trust in it , the system will fail . maintain that trust be one of the most important job that we have in this House and I be sure that if the hon . Gentleman be to apply for a debate , it would be well attend . can we have a debate about law enforcement across the United Kingdom ? the Leader of the House will be aware that yesterday Scotland ' s Chief Constable Sir Iain Livingstone confirm that the initial probe into SNP finance , look at fraud , have be expand to look at possible embezzlement and misuse of fund . it have already see the arrest of former First Minister of Scotland Nicola Sturgeon , along with other senior SNP member . do the Leader of the House agree that that show how serious the investigation into the SNP ' s murky finance be ? my hon . friend ' s question follow that ask by the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , about trust in democracy and our institution . that be incredibly important . whatever our difference and whichever side of the House we sit on , we should all be able to agree that trust and confidence in those system be vital . that be why standard and have strong , democratic institution matter . we have have over 22 police investigation into the SNP . the original £ 600 , 000 - plus that go missing have now be exceed by the £ 800 , 000 in police time that have be spend on those investigation . it be a very sad and sorry state . whatever shape future investigation take , I hope they be resolve swiftly , because this have be a sorry chapter . for the first time since 1961 , UK Government debt have rise above 100 % of gdp , with the Office for National Statistics reveal that net debt reach £ 2 . 6 trillion as of the end of May . in that context , the cost of replace Trident could rise to between £ 287 million and £ 639 million . give the huge pressure on public finance , will the Leader of the House make a statement , which I know my constituent in North Ayrshire and Arran will be very interested in , set out whether she believe a blank cheque for replace Trident be either acceptable or sustainable ? in reply to the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) , I have already give the SNP a lesson in balance the book . I do not think this Government should take any lesson from the SNP Government , who have nearly £ 2 billion between what they spend and what be in their budget . in addition to understand the cost and price of everything , it be also important for we , in this place , to understand the value of thing . Trident be a nuclear deterrent . there be no blank cheque for that nuclear deterrent , but it be there do a vital job . if hon . member can not see the merit of we have a deterrent at this moment , I do not know that they will ever be able to grasp that . any argument about the defence of this nation relate to our commitment to NATO . the SNP purport to support that commitment , but have a nuclear deterrent be pretty fundamental to be a member of NATO . if all those argument have fail in the past , let I try a new one : I be sure that among the hon . Lady ' s constituent she will have a submariner . she should ask that submariner why they be prepared to spend 10 year of their life underwater , in the service of this country . these be not trivial matter and she need to grasp the reality of the situation face we . many of my constituent be disappoint to see that the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be not take forward . I know that the Government be still commit to enact the various provision within the Bill , but will the Leader of the House provide a timetable for that ? my hon . friend will know that I will say that further business will be announce in the usual way . he be right that we be committed to the measure in that Bill . we think that we will be able to bring forward some of they fast use other mean , such as a statutory instrument , rather than through the passage of the Bill as previously schedule . I will announce business in the usual way , but I can give he the assurance that we be committed to those important measure , which be manifesto commitment . can we please have a debate on the issue of tackle the trafficking of woman for sexual exploitation ? we know that tackle demand have to be at the heart of any strategy . the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe have just produce a country report on the UK , which say : " with regard to prevention , the UK do not appear to be take substantive step to tackle the demand that foster traffic for sexual exploitation , despite the international legal obligation to do so . " at the Home Affairs Committee yesterday , the Safe - guard Minister , the hon . member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) , say : " for sex work , the demand be there ; it be unfortunately part of human nature . I would like it to be outlaw . " the right hon . Lady raise an important matter . I shall certainly make sure that the Home Office have hear her concern about that report . she will know , though , that it be not just the Home Office that focus on this issue , but the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and other Departments . we have do more than any previous Government on introduce new law to protect woman and girl . at the fcdo , we have our international strategy on protect woman and girl , with a particular focus on violence against woman and girl . she will know that we fund many initiative around the world through our aid programme that combat traffic for these purpose . she will also know that the next question to the Department be on 18 September . give that that be some time away , I shall write on her behalf . my constituent David Corroyer sadly contract the life - change disease hepatitis c while donate blood . with Hepatitis Awareness Week start next week , please can we have a debate on what progress the Government be make to meet their target of eliminate hep C in 2025 ? would the Leader of the House join I in praise the Hepatitis C Trust for , hopefully , help we to get there five year before global target ? this be an important matter . I will join my hon . friend in praise the work of the Hepatitis C Trust . those target be ambitious , but we be determined to smash they year early . she will know that we have be do a tremendous amount of work globally to combat hep c . as she will not have the opportunity to raise this with the Secretary of State before the recess , I shall also make sure that he have hear her interest in this area . since mid - 2022 , we have be suffer from excess death in the UK . so far this year , we have be see around 8 % excess mortality . on a weekly basis , that mean that around 950 more of our constituent be pass away each week than the five - year average . I have be request a debate on this matter regularly for the past six month to no avail . I can understand why the Government do not wish to debate this topic , but the silence from the opposition party be perplexing . may I ask the Leader of the House when the public will get an opportunity to witness a debate in this House on this issue of life and death that be affect they , their friend and their family ? I be sorry that the hon . Member have not be able to secure a debate on this matter . he be sit next to the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , who be forever announce opportunity to secure a debate . perhaps if he would write to I in more detail about what he have do to secure a debate , I can advise and assist he far . on 18 May , the Leader of the House tell I that she would again take up the matter of redundancy modification order with the Department and chase up official for I and perhaps suggest that the Minister meet I . I know that the Leader of the House can carry a great big sword . I do not agree with she on nuclear weapon , but will she use that great big sword and poke the Department , because I have have no response ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Lady have not have a response . what I will do be contact the Department again on her behalf . in such case where the Department be just not respond , we will also call in the permanent secretary , and I will do that on this occasion . I will follow up this afternoon , as I know the House be rise today , to urge they to contact the hon . Lady at least to give she an update on the matter . when my constituent lose power , Scottish Power transfer she on to a prepayment meter as an emergency fix . three month later , her meter have not be repair properly , cause major ramification include she falsely be contact by debt collector . my constituent and my team have be in constant communication with ScottishPower , but the situation remain unresolved . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Energy , Security and Net Zero to make a statement on hold large energy company to account for poor customer service ? I be very sorry to hear about that case , and I will of course ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what the hon . Lady have say . hopefully someone from ScottishPower ' s medium or public affair team will be tune in to the Chamber , and will have hear our dismay at those poor standard of customer service . we hope that the situation will be rectify . small business lease retail space in railway station have take a financial hit as a result of industrial action . train operate company accept that refund for rent on strike day should be make available but say that the decision be out of their hand , and that the Department for Transport be block the refund , yet in response to a recent write question the DFT tell I that the train operator should be deal with this matter . could the Leader of the House please confirm whether she expect a write ministerial statement today from the Transport Secretary clarify the situation ? if not , could she please write to he and ask he to intervene so that official either unblock the refund request or empower the train operate company to take this forward themselves , so that small business stop get stick in the middle ? the hon . Lady have do we a service by raise this matter . I will get on to the relevant Department this afternoon and ask that it be clarify , which I be sure would be in the interest of all our constituent . I be incredibly proud that student from around the world choose to come to study in my city of Dundee at one of our two world - class university ; however , the newly publish road map for a scottish green industrial strategy pinpoint the failure of the UK Government to support international student as one of the key impediment to build Scotland ' s green economy , with some within the Tory party want to go far and limit which university would be able to take in international student . it look like the Tory party be more interested in deport rather than develop and retain talent , so can we have a statement from the UK Government ruling that out , with a commitment to do more to offer a welcoming environment for student and graduate ? I would correct the hon . Gentleman . we have a very proud record of accept international student and we do a huge amount of outreach work to attract international student here . we be one of the most popular place for they to study , and we be do a huge amount through the British Council and other organisation to promote british education around the world . if he have specific , I urge he to write to the relevant Departments . he can question the Education Secretary on 23 October and the Home Secretary on 18 September . the UN protocol on trafficking , which have be ratify by the UK , state that a victim of modern slavery do not need to have be physically transport during the course of their exploitation . the UK ' s Modern Slavery Act 2015 , however , require physical transportation for it to be a human trafficking offence . under UK law , perpetrator of this heinous crime would receive a far more lenient sentence than if they be charge with trafficking . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss bring the UK ' s definition of traffic in line with that of the UN ? I will certainly ensure that the Home Secretary and the Ministry of Justice have hear what the hon . Lady have raise . from my experience as a former Secretary of State for the Department for International Development , I can tell she that we do some incredible thing around the world to combat not just crime take place in the UK or facilitate from the UK but crime where the victim be in other part of the world . what our National Crime Agency do , not just for the UK but for many nation around the world , be incredibly impressive , and we should be very proud of it . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I say this ? every week I bring to business question an issue from across the world on behalf of persecute churchgoer with christian belief , those with no belief or those with other belief , and every week the Leader of the House consistently , honestly and sincerely take that matter to the relevant Minister , or secure I a meeting , letter or reply . that do not go unnoticed , and I thank she for it on behalf of people across the world who have no voice . early this week , ISIS boast about the increase attack against Christians in Mozambique , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Nigeria and Kenya . the group claim that militant have plunder christian village and massacre local , and that the rate of attack for the first half of 2023 be a 57 % increase on the precede six month . one of those example be the Lhubiriha secondary school in Uganda , which this House discuss on 20 June ; however , as the Leader of the House and other know , that be only the tip of the iceberg , with most attack receive little to no attention in the medium . will the Leader of the House join I and other in a statement condemn those attack and express solidarity with the survivor ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his very kind word . with the exception of the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , whom I have exclude from my league table , the hon . Gentleman have attend the most business question session of anyone in this House . he do we a great service , because he be always raise matter that should get airtime , and enable we all to send the message that we be focus on the plight of the people he mention . we be deeply concerned about the recent increase in attack against Christians , particularly in Mozambique , the DRC , Nigeria and Kenya — the Foreign Office be follow those situation very closely . these attack be deplorable , and the UK will continue to use its influence in the UN , the Council of Europe and elsewhere to highlight these appalling human right violation and galvanise action to protect freedom of religion and protect people who be be particularly persecute , Christians be prime among they . Tata Group Gigafactory Investment I be pleased to update the House about the significant investment announce by Tata Group just yesterday . the confirmation that Tata will be invest over £ 4 billion to build a new gigafactory — the large in Europe , I believe — in the UK be a historic moment and a major vote of confidence in our automotive sector . across Government , we have work closely with Tata for the past two year to help secure this crucial investment for the UK , and its decision to invest here be a testament to our strong partnership with Tata . tata ' s announcement represent one of the large investment we have ever see in the automotive sector , and be part of a new wave of investment — as significant as those make in the 1980 — that be help to turbocharge our transition to zero - emission vehicle . it will also be the group ' s first gigafactory outside India , directly create up to 4 , 000 highly skilled new job , alongside thousand of further job in the wide supply chain for battery material and critical raw material . Tata say that the battery gigafactory will produce high - quality , high - performance , sustainable battery cell and pack for a variety of application within the mobility and energy sector . as the anchor customer , the new gigafactory will supply Jaguar Land Rover ' s future battery electric model , include in the Range Rover , Defender , Discovery and Jaguar brand . that mean we will soon see car from JLR ' s iconic british brand manufacture in the UK , power by battery produce in the UK and develop use technology from research and development centre in the UK , before be export to market all over the world . battery production at the new facility will commence in 2026 , and we look forward to confirmation of the site ' s location once due diligence have be finalise . when operational , Tata expect it to be one of the large building in the UK and plan to maximise its renewable energy mix , with an ambition for 100 % clean power . the investment be also an important reflection of the UK ' s position as a key location for european and global automotive manufacturing . with an initial output of 40 GW , the new factory confirm yesterday will be one of the large in Europe . as well as be a significant moment for the UK , this investment will play an important part in strengthen economic resilience across Europe in the highly integrate supply chain for the automotive sector and other key sector . use the Faraday Institution ' s estimate , it will provide almost half of the UK ' s require battery production by 2030 , boost the battery manufacturing capacity we need to support the electric vehicle industry in the long term . the Government be commit to support the automotive sector and the electric vehicle supply chain to take full advantage of the move to zero - emission vehicle , and we be put this commitment into action through the automotive transformation fund , the british industry supercharger and our strong programme of support for research and development . we be work alongside industry to unlock further private investment in our ev supply chain , and we have long - stand and comprehensive programme of support for the automotive sector , include the ATF , the Advanced Propulsion Centre and , of course , the Faraday battery challenge . this investment be an important milestone in enable a UK - make transition to net zero . however , it do not stand in isolation . it build on other announcement that have be secure with the support of Government , include Nissan and Envision plan to secure £ 1 billion to create an ev manufacturing hub in Sunderland , Ford commit a total of £ 380 million to make Halewood the first ev component site in Europe and Stellantis invest £ 100 million to transition Ellesmere Port to electric van manufacturing . the transition to zero - emission vehicle give we a once - in - a - generation opportunity to shape the future of manufacturing . over 166 , 000 people be directly employ in the automotive sector , and I be delighted that yesterday ' s announcement mean that thousand of new highly - skilled job will be create in the next few year just for this project alone . this fantastic news from Tata show that the Government be get behind business to unlock the barrier to growth and secure further investment , and it will be a real boost to the entire sector . I look forward to build on the momentum and continue our strong relationship with the sector , so that we can move the UK forward in the race to net zero and support the delivery of the Prime Minister ' s priority to grow the economy . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . anyone who care about and have knowledge of the automotive sector know how important these battery factory be to the future of the UK . without battery be make here , it be unlikely there will be a long - term future for automotive production in this country , and for too long the UK have be far behind where we need to be . therefore , everyone should welcome this news and breathe a huge sigh of relief that we finally have a positive development . in all the urgent question , debate and statement we have have , this be what we have be call for . however , this relief should also come with the humility to appreciate that there be still a great deal to do . if this factory proceed as plan , the UK will have 66 GWh of capacity by 2030 , but at that point Germany would have over 300 GWh , Hungary over 200 GWh and China over 6 , 000 GWh . I therefore hope there be resolve in Government to make sure that this be just one of several major announcement of this kind . of course , to secure this investment a substantial amount of public money have have to be spend . the Minister do not actually reference that . can she provide some clarity on the medium report we have see about how much exactly that will amount to ? this approach of use public investment to leverage in a much great degree of private investment be the approach that we have advocate in Labour ' s green prosperity plan . Government Ministers have at time publicly disagree with this proposal , but we always know they be in talk that involve the same approach . I therefore put it to the Minister that it would be far well to set out that Government approach openly , transparently and honestly in order to attract more potential partner and be able to negotiate from a strong position . some might call this an industrial strategy , because the truth be that the UK be desperate for this announcement . if it have go to another country , such as Spain , thing would have look very bleak indeed . that be why we be all so relieved , but that be not , if we be frank , the optimum negotiating position to find ourselves in . can I also ask the Minister about local content ? crucial to our future success be build up a domestic supply chain for these factory . will the Government be specify a minimum percentage of local content require by this factory in order to receive the generous subsidy that have be agree ? in addition , will the Government be encourage the development of advanced battery chemistry in the UK to aid domestic job creation , but also to limit any risk from geopolitical event that have the potential to disrupt supply chain in future ? we also need to consider this announcement alongside the wide policy environment for automotive in the UK , specifically the rule of origin requirement under the trade and co - operation agreement and the Government ' s phase - out of internal combustion engine from 2030 . even with this welcome announcement , these timescale look incredibly tight . I do not believe anyone can seriously countenance a 10 % tariff on vehicle export to the EU , which would be the outcome of fail to meet the rule of origin requirement . can the Minister update we on progress towards a deal ? can the Minister also update the House on the Government ' s position on the 2030 phase - out timetable ? be she aware of concern that maintain that timescale without sufficient domestic production effectively mean only chinese vehicle stand any chance of meet consumer demand in the short term ? surely we should be think holistically about the whole sector . it be not about a different level of ambition , just a query as to the good way to get there . finally , can I ask the Minister about industrial energy price ? so much of the transition to net zero require more competitive industrial price than the UK currently have . we know that have be and be a material factor in the deal , so can the Minister say whether a precedent have now be set that will have consequence for other sector , such as steel , if deal be strike for their decarbonisation ? in conclusion , I repeat my welcome of this announcement . I welcome the Government ' s conversion to labour ' s way of thinking . I hope it be a sign of many more good thing to come . I warmly welcome the Government ' s decision and the announcement by Tata , which highlight the UK ' s tech potential — order . I beg the right hon . Gentleman ' s forgiveness . I be be distract by another right hon . Gentleman , who ought to know well , and I therefore do not call the Minister to answer . I do apologise . I think maybe we get a bit noisy as we be try to fully digest the slightly delusional response of the Opposition Front Bencher , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , to this statement . our job as representative of the automotive sector be to praise , protect and promote , not to play politic , especially with investment this substantial . tata ' s investment be so substantial . it be 40 % of the gigawatt that we need , and fundamentally we need to have 100 % by 2030 . with Tata and Envision , we be two third of the way there . obviously we want more , but we be not go to be complacent . we should not compare ourselves with the rest of Europe when their need will be substantially different from our , but let we take a moment to reflect on what be happen internationally . this be a global race to achieve net zero . Tata have decide to come here to the UK because it have faith in UK worker , UK technology and UK innovation . it have confidence in the UK supply chain , but fundamentally it have confidence in the UK Government ' s policy when it come to advanced manufacturing and the automotive sector . the hon . Gentleman speak about the automotive transformation fund , which be a £ 1 billion fund to support exactly this sort of initiative , but let we just reflect on the bonanza — I be not sure that be the right term — that the opposition be offer . it be £ 28 billion in their plan , which be a lot of money for the taxpayer to front up for an un - cost plan that , as far as I be aware , be not endorse by anyone in the advanced manufacturing sector and what they want to achieve . as we be get close to our summer holiday , the £ 28 billion of un - cost promise that the opposition be make be a bit like line in the sand . we can look down at they , but the tide of reality will come in . the Opposition ' s proposal mean nothing to industry or to job creation . they be create within the Westminster bubble . [ interruption . ] if the opposition do not believe I , they should listen to the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders , the umbrella organisation for the automotive sector . it have talk about the substance in the UK supply chain , which will be a part of this initiative go forward . unlike anywhere else in Europe , we have a fantastic supply chain with graphene , silicon carbide wafer — I be learn so much — power electronic , battery and powertrain . it be a substantial boost to our supply chain in the UK . as the hon . Gentleman know , I be work not only on our critical mineral strategy but on our supply strategy , to make sure we be use UK innovation and UK good across all our supply chain , and in particular in the automotive sector . I urge he to have some humility and to reverse , and to praise , promote and protect the sector , and definitely not to play politic with it ; that be a very weak thing to do . there be challenge deal with the rule of origin . as the hon . Gentleman know , not only the Prime Minister but the Secretary of State be in intensive talk with the European Union . this be an issue not just for the UK ; it be also about car make in the EU be transport into the UK . it be a two - way system . I urge everybody in the House who have contact with european counterpart to ensure that they make it very clear that this will be damaging for european car manufacturer as well . let I turn to the zero - emission vehicle mandate . I have take many a delegation to the Department for Transport , which be responsible for this bit of policy , and I be keen to back business . the consultation have conclude and result will come through , and we will continue to work with the dft . my position have always be to back the automotive sector . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde do not seem to appreciate how substantial the investment be . we should be focus on the £ 4 billion , the 4 , 000 job and the resilience in the supply chain — the 2 , 500 small firm across most of our constituency that will be get some support because of this fantastic confidence in the UK car and automotive sector , and fundamentally in UK policy when it come to advanced manufacturing . and now I call Dominic Raab . I warmly welcome the Government ' s announcement and Tata ' s decision , which highlight the tech potential of the UK . do the Minister agree that our long - term strategy , as I think she be set out , be that we will not be able to engage in a bidding war on subsidy with the US , China and the EU , and that our comparative advantage will be shore up the supply chain in the context of ev battery , which mean lithium deposit in the south - west and our emerge refinement capacity in Teesside ? I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and agree with every single point he make . he mention the lithium mine in Cornwall , which will eventually produce enough lithium for 500 , 000 electric car and vehicle . there be such success for our supply chain because this Government have a strategy that be embed in the real - world politic of deal with the automotive sector , and our critical mineral refresh be exactly the support require for the lithium mine in Cornwall . it be not just about the financial support ; it be also about the ecosystem . fundamentally , the organisation have faith in initiative such as the Faraday battery challenge , the Advanced Propulsion Centre and the tech in the UK . all the component that be require be here in the UK , and we have be able to link that ecosystem and supply chain together , which give Tata the confidence to come and build the big gigafactory in Europe here in the UK . I thank the Minister for her statement and early sight of it . I agree that battery manufacturing capacity be important as part of our move towards EVs , away from petrol and diesel vehicle , and towards all our target to achieve net zero . it would be remiss of I not to mention that a few year ago , as I be sure the Minister recall , Dundee be give the " most EV visionary city in Europe " award by the World Electric Vehicle Association in Japan . let I turn to the statement itself . a £ 4 billion or so investment by Tata — that ' s good . substantial investment by Envision in battery production in Sunderland , plus the other investment the Minister mention , be of course all welcome . yet that be broadly a comparable sum — around £ 6 billion — to the investment in the ev charge network we have be promise by 2030 . do the Minister think we be on track to have the right balance between investment in the supply chain and battery production capacity , and in the ev charge network . that network be where most driver intersect with the system and it be the large cause of frustration when it do not work or break down . I do not think it get any more positive from the SNP on this point . I be pleased that the right hon . Gentleman welcome the £ 4 billion investment and the more than 4 , 000 job , and the confidence we have in the advanced manufacturing sector in the UK ; that be such a positive response to what this Government have be able to achieve . I be not aware of the Dundee point , but I will go away and look it up . so many people have be responsible for get this project over the line and so many have be campaign for gigafactorie . in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) have be campaign for gigafactorie for long than I have be in Parliament , so huge thank go to he and to everyone else who help to get this project over the line . on charge point , as the Minister of State , Department for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) say in last week ' s debate on the automotive sector , ChargeUK have commit to invest more than £ 6 billion in the development and operation of charge infrastructure before 2030 . we hear in that debate that some colleague feel the investment in their constituency be not substantial enough . we need to make sure that as demand for ev vehicle grow — there have be much more demand and many more sale recently — the charge infrastructure stand up to that . as the Minister responsible for the automotive sector , I know we be do everything we can to fulfil our part of the bargain , as it be , but we need to make sure that charge infrastructure be roll out as fast as it can be . substantial target be be meet and the Transport Minister be keen to take up constituency case to make sure that the roll - out be fast as it can be . I be absolutely delighted by this announcement . a number of my constituent work in the Vauxhall van factory in Luton , which make a fantastic Vivaro van that we want to get electrify . will the Minister say a little more about how we complete the final piece of the picture so that every car plant in the UK be reassure that there will be UK - make battery ? yesterday ' s announcement be fantastic , but one or two of we be concerned about that last piece . I hope to get an invitation to visit that plant and my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I will of course do my good to promote Vauxhall van . what be really exciting about this initiative be that it be about produce battery not just for JLR but for the whole market , which be crucial . with the Tata and Envision gigafactorie , we be two third of the way to get to the 100 GW that the Faraday challenge believe we need . we be not complacent and be still go to do everything we can to secure further investment and seek further growth in this area , but for the moment we need to accept that this gigafactory could have go anywhere in Europe , and there be huge talk about where it be go to be , but Tata have confidence in the UK and decide to come home to we . may I say , Madam Deputy Speaker , what a pleasure it be to see you back in the Chair on a regular basis ? I wish you and everybody else who work in Parliament a very good recess when it come . this be a very welcome announcement . tata be a good company and this be a big day and a big announcement . of course , this investment should have be in Huddersfield — I would say that , wouldn ' t I ? — because we have a wonderful engineering skillset . I do not want to be a downer , but I warn the Minister of this : by the time building work on the canal system be finish , everybody have lose their shirt on their investment because the railway come unexpectedly and all the investment be wipe out . I have recently visit JCB , which have develop hydrogen - power vehicle ; will the Minister make sure that the Government focus equally on hydrogen ? many of we believe that , rather like the railway and the canal , hydrogen will come almost out of the blue and be the major , much more sustainable , future mode of transport . the hon . member be absolutely right that Huddersfield be a great place . we be not complacent : if the right opportunity , investment and partnership be put forward , we will of course consider that . we want to make sure that we continue to grow our gigafactory capacity . I know that the hon . Member be go to touch on hydrogen , which he talk about often . the work we be do with the ATF be not just about electric vehicle but about how we adopt all new function technology to get to the first stage of zero emission , and then to the next stage and so on . there be opportunity for hydrogen project to come forward . just a few week ago I visit a major construction project where not only the vehicle on site building and develop the port and the infrastructure be go to be hydrogen , but the vehicle move on and off the site be to be well . hydrogen be very much in our sight too . I warmly welcome this announcement . do my hon . friend agree that it show this Government ' s commitment to real and tangible green investment in the crucial automotive industry , in its supply chain and in many connected business throughout the UK , include the environmentally exemplary , forward - think transport logistic company in my constituency , Brit European ? Brit european sound like one of the firm I need to meet . no doubt my hon . friend will invite I to visit , and I look forward to meet the firm with she . she be absolutely right : this be a huge vote of confidence in our ability to adopt new technology to achieve net zero . it be not just about find and secure new source of critical mineral ; we be at the leading edge of battery recycling too . the UK Battery Industrialisation Centre will help we to stay at the forefront of recycling . my constituent be desperate to embrace the transition to electric vehicle , whether car , van or bus , but electric car remain far too expensive , and the charge infrastructure barely exist — and where it do exist , it be not reliable . although investment be welcome , we need a consistent strategy . if the Government be serious about reach net zero , I urge the Minister to look again at reintroduce incentive to take up electric vehicle . will she consider give local authority a statutory responsibility to roll out , with pandemic - style urgency , the ev charge infra - structure that we so desperately need ? when the council in my constituency be Conservative - lead , it have a substantial charging point infrastructure roll - out plan , which it have secure itself . when a council be ambitious , it be amazing how much work can be do . we know that sale of electric vehicle be up , as be ev export and manufacturing , and price will come down as more come on the market . I be slightly anxious about the sort of incentive the hon . Lady be ask for , if it mean just another extra cost to the average taxpayer . we have really good charge infrastructure and fantastic supply chain . as this investment increase confidence in our supply chain , manufacturing will continue to increase and the car will become even more attractive . my constituent , like her , want to leave a lean and greener footprint on the Earth . this be fantastic news for the UK economy , with thousand of skilled job and investment in the transition to a low carbon future . do my hon . friend agree that , while Labour continue its rather odd tribute act to new Labour and the like of Lord Prescott , who famously have two jag , it be the Conservatives who be deliver inward investment in our country and the UK car industry that will deliver much more ? I have learn that it be not a good use of one ' s time to focus on what the opposition be offer , because they u - turn so quickly ; by the time one have close the book they have just publish , they have change their mind . let we not fret about that . my hon . friend be absolutely right . investment in the automotive sector be on a fantastic trajectory , with not just this commitment but those from Stellantis , Ford , Envision and Nissan . that be because we have a really stellar agenda on how we create and adopt new technology to ensure that advanced manufacturing in the UK compete internationally , as we do with steel , include by help with high energy cost , which be now come down . we work hand in glove with the industry . we do not sit around in a Westminster bubble , create new budget that be completely uncosted and endorse by no one in the sector . yesterday ' s and today ' s news be fantastic for the automotive sector . I too welcome the announcement — I genuinely do — but we be mile behind european competitor . some of that be Brexit - relate , but mainly it be due to the lack of an industrial strategy , which be even more important in the net zero - relate sector . this Government be mile behind right across the ev sector ; other country be ramp up incentive , but this Government be slash they . as a result , sale be plateaue . the charge network outside London be a postcode lottery , with some place a charge desert . Scotland have a strategy from day one . that be why we have twice as many rapid charger per head than even London . when will the Government treat this issue with appropriate urgency ? I be afraid the hon . Gentleman be just wrong . first , car sale be up , car manufacturing be up , and car export even into Europe be up . I be not sure what his view be . he welcome the £ 4 billion investment to create the large gigafactory in Europe , but just can not bring himself to dwell on the good news it bring to so many of his business that will , no doubt , be involve in the supply chain help we to deliver the car that will now have UK - make battery . like so many , I welcome this statement . it provide an incredible , positive message for the UK and for the way we be attract business of the right sort . however , we must remember that there be an exist motor supply chain and it will be take on many challenge as the industry move across from what we have now into the electric market . one of the supplier in that market space be Gestamp in Newton Aycliffe . it supply motor manufacturer all over the world and be a tremendous company . the Minister have be ask for invitation to visit other business , so I invite she to come and see Gestamp and to have a good conversation about the way the supply chain be be impact by these tremendous investment . my hon . friend be such a champion of the business in his constituency . may I provide he with some confidence ? secure this investment be about provide assurance to everyone in the supply chain that there be now a big game for they to play — there will be far more production , sale and , obviously , work for they to do . my hon . friend have invite I previously ; it be an outstanding engagement and I look forward to visit he shortly . I chair the Automotive Council so I meet a lot of small and medium - sized enterprise , but if I have not already meet the firm he mention , I suggest he give my private office a little nudge and I will make sure I correspond with the firm shortly . by 2025 , Germany be set to have 10 time more battery capacity than the UK , while the US be set to have 30 time more capacity . I welcome yesterday ' s announcement of Tata Group ' s investment in a UK gigafactory , but will the Minister confirm exactly how the Government plan to ensure that this will be just the first , not the last , such announcement ? the hon . Gentleman have do his homework , but the most important point he need to remember be that to meet our demand in the UK we need 100 GW . that be not a decision we have take ; it be a piece of work do by the Faraday Institution . compare we with the USA or Germany do not really work well , because we be try to deal with the manufacturing that we have in the UK . so , we need 100 GW ; this announcement provide 40 GW , and we have 12 GW with Envision and Nissan , which may go up to 38 GW if they wish to expand . potentially we be two third of the way there , but we do not want to be complacent . when draw international comparison , we have to ask how many of the country — whether the USA or Germany — be two third of the way to meet their battery need . this be of course not the first or the second step , because we have Nissan already with Envision , but yesterday ' s announcement be substantial and we will of course continue to go forward . it show huge confidence in the UK supply chain and will no doubt attract further investment . this be absolutely fantastic news for the UK . much of the supply chain in east Lancashire can grow far and fast with Government commercialisation and focused investment and support . will my hon . friend confirm that the Government be commit to make the UK a lead player in the whole of the EV battery space and that they will work with business such as Emerson and Renwick in Hyndburn and Haslingden to support growth in the supply chain ? my hon . friend be a true champion of her constituency and all the firm within it . I be keen catch up with she now we know we have this fantastic deal and to see what more we can do for the many firm in her constituency . we want to make sure that everybody in the supply chain can be involve in this programme of work as it come through . we have a number of initiative , whether it be the automotive transformation fund or the Faraday challenge , to ensure that we be do everything we can to adopt the new set of technology rule and de - risk any new technology that firm have in place . at the moment we think that that will boost 2 , 500 small firm , but of course if we can involve any more we will do that , and I look forward to sit down with my hon . friend and see what more we can do for her constituent . of course this new gigafactory announcement be very welcome , but it have take time . how will it impact the industrial energy price ? the Minister have not answer that question and we know that that price be a barrier to decarbonisation and that address it will ensure the transition to net zero and low energy bill , which need to be prioritise across all sector and industry in our transition . as a result of Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine and high energy price , we introduce substantial programme to give energy - intensive firm the support that they need . the next phase of that be the energy supercharger , which — as the hon . Lady will know — the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have be talk about . we know that energy price will fall in the near future , and that there will be a change in the mix of energy cost . Tata come to the UK not only because it be , obviously , the good place in which to build a gigafactory and have a fantastic skillset , but because we could offer competitive energy price . we have have conversation about that with a number of firm and investor . when energy price be high and we be deal with energy - intensive industry , we make sure that we provide the necessary support to protect those firm and their employee . I thank the Minister for her statement , and welcome Tata ' s investment . the Adam Smith Institute have say that secure sustainable foreign direct investment be fantastic , but that the UK should also be introduce supply - side reform so that we can continue to champion carbon reduction on a global scale . in the light of that , what step be minister take to introduce supply - side reform ? I be work with most industry representative to establish what we can do about the supply side , not just through reform but by give they the assurance , accessibility and resilience that they need to get their product into the country and continue manufacture , whether in the chemical or the aviation sector . we be work closely with industry , and I hope to present a supply - side input strategy by the autumn . I have press the Minister many time for support to enable good , skilled job in the automotive sector and supply chain to be retain in the UK , include those at Vauxhall in my constituency , to which she be obviously welcome to pay a visit at any time . may I now press she to tell we how many public money or subsidy arrangement have be enter into by the Government to support Tata ' s welcome choice of the UK for its gigafactory ? if she be coy about answer that question , may I also ask how much of the £ 1 billion automotive transformation fund be leave to support exist business such as Stellantis , also in Luton South ? I know that a visit to Luton South be outstanding , and I hope that we can secure a date soon . the hon . Lady have ask a very good and clever question . as she have say , the ATF amount to £ 1 billion , and in due course , with due diligence , the commitment from Tata will be make public . however , the number on which we should focus be these . Tata be invest £ 4 . 5 billion to build Europe ' s large gigafactory , which be guarantee to create more than 4 , 000 job and support , potentially , 2 , 500 firm in the supply chain . those be the number that we should be proud of today , have secure such a stellar investment in a sector that all of we in the Chamber — because we be here on a Thursday afternoon — clearly wish to protect and promote . we win this investment , over any other european country . Tata could have go anywhere , but it come here because it have confidence in our worker , our company and our ecosystem . I thank the Minister for make such a positive statement . everyone be enthral by the announcement that Tata be to invest £ 4 billion in an electric car battery manufacturing site in Somerset , which be wonderful news for commerce and job in the UK , not to mention our contribution to the commitment make at COP26 and COP27 , but can the Minister tell we whether site outside England will be consider in the future ? it be say that four battery factory be need . have the Minister consider , or be she consider , Northern Ireland as one of those location , with the aim of boost commerce in all region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I be committed to that aim , and I know that the Minister be . it be good to know that we can all gain advantage from this . it be great that we have a major commitment to one of the big gigafactorie in Europe . that will generate even more investment and more interest in build gigafactorie in the UK . we will , of course , consider all proposal for site that be bring forward by commercial partner who see value in building gigafactorie in the UK . this commitment shore up what we have , take we towards where we need to be in 2030 , and will help we meet our need for battery , but it will also attract new investment . this be a massive vote of confidence in the UK economy and the UK ' s policy on the automotive sector . may I wish everyone a wonderful summer break , and thank all staff , especially the staff in the Tea Room , who enable we to get through our very long day ? indeed . I thank the Minister on behalf of everybody who work in this building . I thank she for take question . Backbench Business Sir David Amess Summer Adjournment we come to the moment we have all be wait for : the last piece of business before the summer recess . it be the Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate . for just a moment , we pause and remember our late and very greatly miss honourable Friend . a great many people want to speak this afternoon . there be plenty of time , but if everyone keep their contribution under 10 minute , we will manage without a formal time limit , which will make for a much more pleasant and easily flow debate . it will also be fair . everybody will get a decent crack of the whip — oh , I do not mean " the Whip " ; let I be more precise : everyone will get the chance to speak for the same amount of time . to move the motion , I call the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , Mr Ian Mearns . I beg to move , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . as Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , I be grateful for the opportunity to open this debate , and to commemorate the memory of our lose friend , Sir David Amess . I have have the privilege of hold my role as Chair since 2015 , with the support of colleague from both side of the House . these debate offer I and other member from across the House a great opportunity that the parliamentary timetable might not otherwise allow to raise issue from the constituency . I express my gratitude to those member who have the fortitude to resist the temptation to attend one of the three by - election , and who be here on the day of a national rail strike — and , of course , the final day before the summer recess . as I say , this be an opportunity to raise a whole range of issue , and with your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will do that . last month mark the sixth anniversary of the Grenfell Tower tragedy . I be certain that colleague will remember that night with great sadness , and I know that many of they share my desire to see lesson learn from that tragic evening , and to ensure that constituent in building with similar cladding and fire safety issue be protect from physical risk and financial burden . in the six year that have pass , a series of Ministers have make bold statement about protect leaseholder from the cost that those leaseholder might incur in protect themselves . even today , hundred of my constituent , and equal number of constituent in nearly every urban constituency , be live in limbo . those affect be predominantly in property that be under 18 metre high , which the Government deem not to require survey , though mortgage company , conveyancer and insurance company most certainly do . constituent in defective building be suffer from a cocktail of potential danger , and they have no funding or recourse to remedy , and no ability to pay for the work require , to move , or to move on with their life . there be complete imbalance between the power of the freeholder and that of the leaseholder and tenant . the Government continue to make positive statement , but I be afraid that they continue to let down many hundred of my constituent . on a more positive note , I have be delighted to learn of the continuation of funding for the next 12 month for the special school eye care service ; small pilot of that service be run across the country . I be delighted to visit the service in action at the excellent Gibside School in my Gateshead constituency . I urge the Government to commit to a national roll - out of the service in the long term . it be a service for visually impair child with special educational need and disability , for whom it be difficult at the good of time to get accurate eye test and spectacle . I be also delighted to report to the House that the state - of - the - art conference facility earmark for a site in the heart of Gateshead — close to the Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art , the Sage Gateshead , which be our regional music centre , and of course the Gateshead Millennium bridge — will begin construction in the autumn . I hope that , over the course of the next 10 year , many member will have the opportunity to see Gateshead in all its glory at this brand - new facility . I want to take a moment to recognise the groundbreaking district heating system develop by Gateshead Council in my constituency . the system supply many household and business in the centre of Gateshead and be continually expand . the system operate use natural gas , but there be plan in the near future to convert the plant to use the heat of mine water , use the north - east ' s proud industrial heritage to generate clean energy for the people of Gateshead . as we continue to deal with the climate crisis , I be sure that all member will commend Gateshead Council ' s cut - edge investment in clean power and energy efficiency . I be afraid that that mark the end of the more upbeat chapter of my speech . I have long campaign against the council tax system , which I believe have be unfit for purpose from the outset . we all breathe a sigh of relief when we get rid of the poll tax , but my constituency have among the high council tax rate in the country despite feature highly on every single measure of poverty and need . the system hand a huge financial advantage to authority whose property be above band d on average . by their very nature such authority be often in the more affluent area of the country . conversely , area such Gateshead have a council tax base make up almost exclusively of band a and band b property . couple with the removal of the majority of the revenue support grant , Gateshead Council have have to hike council tax rate to fill some of the gap I want to draw this House ' s attention to local government finance more broadly . Gateshead Council ' s annual budget have be almost halve in real term since 2010 , hugely reduce the council ' s ability to maintain vital and good - quality public service . that be happen despite a significant hike in demand for adult social care and child ' s social service . this summer , two of the six public leisure centre in Gateshead will close as the council battle with a huge hole in its budget in the face of rise cost and need . the area of high deprivation and poverty be see council tax rate skyrocket while service plummet . we in Gateshead be watch the gap between wealthy and less wealthy area widen rapidly . we be pay far more for service that be a mere shadow of their former self , while people in many area of the south - east pay much less for far more . no Government should be take decision that make the life of ordinary people more arduous , difficult and poverty stricken . this can not be allow to continue . Gateshead have a proud track record of offer safe haven for those seek protection from some of the bad regime and war - tear area around the world . I regularly meet family who have settle in Gateshead and now call it home , but I also meet many family and individual who be the opposite of settle . many of they have be in the United Kingdom for year . many be still wait for decision on their application . many have skill and quality that our community and our economy urgently require . the late figure from the Home Office demonstrate the disgraceful scale of the problem . as of 31 March this year , 172 , 000 asylum application be await their first decision , and 128 , 000 have be ongoing for more than 12 month . it be desperately worry that the number of people wait for a decision have grow exponentially from 16 , 000 in 2016 to 133 , 000 in 2023 . the Government must get a grip on this crisis as a matter of urgency , yet they appear to be use the figure to justify an incredibly troubling policy direction . the majority of those people have flee some of the bad tragedy in our world , and our community be well for have they . finally , let I turn to a couple of more topical issue . just this week , follow a BBC investigation , it have be reveal that more than 100 current or former worker for the McDonald ' s fast food chain , many of they vulnerable young people , have complain of 78 instance of allege sexual harassment , 31 relate to sexual assault , 18 of racism and six of homophobia . that be a very poor employment record for any employer . no one should go to work have to run the gauntlet of sexual assault or harassment , or discrimination on the ground of their race , gender or sexuality . I declare an interest , because these allegation be bring to light follow tireless campaign work by the Bakers , Food and Allied Workers Union , whose parliamentary group I chair . McDonald ' s have allow sexual assault , bullying , harassment and racism to happen on its watch , but while all that have be happen on its premise , it have steadfastly ensure that one kind of activity certainly be not allow — trade union activity . worker be prevent from get together to protect themselves from some of the bad excess of an employer that have clearly be turn a blind eye to all sort of nastiness on its premise . it be necessary , but not enough , to look at whether any law or guidance have be breach here . as the TUC general secretary , Paul Nowak , have say : " all the guideline — and indeed law — in the world count for little if worker don ' t have access to strong , independent union . " this be not just a matter of a toxic culture develop inside one company , McDonald ' s . this kind of abuse result from power differential arise from a situation where vulnerable young worker , often on zero - hour contract , be desperate for shift and therefore dependent on the largesse of their manager . it be critical that the next Labour Government act to ban the use of zero - hour contract and ensure that trade union have a statutory right of access to workplace in order to communicate to worker and free they from the anti - union scare - monger of their employer . finally , note my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as chair of the RMT ' s parliamentary group , I want to say that our public transport network have be dismantle and decimate by the patchwork quilt of private operating company run train and bus for shareholder profit , not for passenger service . if , as a country and a Government , we be remotely serious about tackle climate change and lethally poor air quality in some place , we must urgently address the inadequate and , for too many community , non - existent public transport network . the most recent decision to close almost all ticket office across the country show once again that this Government be intent on run our vital infrastructure simply as a profit - make entity . although it be shroud in the pretence of offer great accessibility to staff , it be clear to I and many of my constituent that it be nothing more than a naked attempt to cut cost , sack hard - work staff , reduce access for the frail , disabled and vulnerable , and bolster profit . not only will it have a negative impact across the network ; it will have an exclusionary impact on those who be not able to use smartphone or to see or properly access automatic ticket machine , or who have significant disability and accessibility issue . good quality , affordable and reliable public transport be the backbone of any modern and high - perform economy , but for too many year we have see that vital public infrastructure chop up and sell off , hand to company with neither any experience nor any interest in operate for the public or economic good of the country , which carve out profit at the expense of their staff , their customer and the local and regional economy , then hand back the rein when they have squeeze out every last drop of profit . that be why Network Rail , London North Eastern Railway , Northern and TransPennine Express be all now in public ownership . we have see cut to service , cut to staff , and cut to maintenance , yet huge increase in price , cancellation and delay , with taxpayer — many of whom have no access to any of these service — foot the bill for the Government ' s largesse . we must put an end to this merry - go - round and return to run our public transport in the public interest . may I apologise to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , and to all member ? I have not miss a Sir David Amess Adjournment debate in 13 year . I be sorry , but I be go to have to miss this one because I have an event to go to back home . it be the 50th anniversary of the woman who serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment ; I be one of their guest , and I wish to be there to support they . I wish the hon . member for Gateshead , you , Madam Deputy Speaker , Mr Speaker , all the Deputy Speakers and every Member here — friend all — a very good recess . may the Lord bless you for the summer that come ahead and all you do . before I hand back to the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , I hardly need point out that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , in his inimitable way , have not miss the debate . he have manage to put in his tuppence - worth , as ever , in a way that be procedurally acceptable , because the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) give way to he , which be perfectly proper . the whole House appreciate his good wish . in his inimitable way , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have secure , through his kind word , his season ticket for the Backbench Business Committee . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I thank you and member across the House for the indulgence of allow I to lead this debate ? I will get a chance to reply at the end , and I will leave my good wish for the summer until then . I call the Father of the House . David Amess and I have a common interest in the all - party parliamentary fire safety and rescue group , which be one of the group of which I be an officer . that be relevant to the debate we have yesterday , when the House sort of come to a conclusion on the Standards Committee ' s rule on all - party group , but that be for another day , when it have have a chance to review what be go on . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) for his work with I on the High Speed Rail ( London – West Midlands ) Bill Committee a long time ago , for nearly two year , and for the exemplary way in which he and his Committee run the Backbench Business Committee . all who come to make application be grateful for the serious consideration give by member of that Committee and the way they manage to schedule so many debate that be of interest to our constituent and important to the nation , and that give mp the chance to say what they want to say . I be afraid that I can not be here for the wind - up speech at 5 o ' clock , because today be the day of St Margaret of Antioch , the patron saint of St Margaret ' s church , Westminster , across the road from here . as parliamentary warden , I will be at that service . I want the Minister to get other together and have a meeting with I and representative of the former sergeant Gurpal Virdi , an excellent police officer . in my previous constituency , I represent the family of Stephen Lawrence after he have be attack . one police officer in that investigation do well ; many other do not . there be a similar attack — not a fatal one — on a foreign student in Ealing . Gurpal Virdi leave his police station , find two of the suspect , find the attack weapon and go to see the family . later on , he ask whether the attack have be record as potentially racist . when he come back from holiday , his home be turn over by a terrorist search squad because he be think to have send a message to himself say , " you ' re not want here . National Front . " he be Sikh , and that message be also receive by other minority ethnic officer . there be no need to take too many note , because most of this be record in a book he have publish call " behind the Blue Line " . I contribute one of the foreword , and the other one be contribute by Dr Richard Stone , the jewish human right doctor who be one of the adviser on Macpherson ' s Stephen Lawrence inquiry . both Richard Stone and I know what we be write about , and we know Gurpal Virdi . Gurpal Virdi manage to get out of the difficulty that some people in the police be put on he . he be later commend by Bernard Hogan - Howe when deputy commissioner . one of his task in the police be work in the Battersea police station when one of the sergeant be Cressida Dick . People who have be at the top of the Metropolitan Police Service have know about he and his case for a long time . in 2014 , I write to the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Home Secretary explain why the propose prosecution of Gurpal Virdi for what be originally describe as indecently assault someone under the age of 16 in a police van in 1986 be an impossible prosecution and should not go ahead . the prosecution do go ahead , and after a week and a half ' s trial in Southwark Crown court , end on 31 July 2015 , the jury take about 50 minute to come back to court with their conclusion . if we allow they 10 minute to get back to the jury room , five minute to go to the rest room , five minute to have a discussion and 10 minute to get back to the court , we can see how long it take they to decide that the case be not a proper one to have be bring and to establish his innocence . I then ask whether the police could review how the prosecution happen . I also ask the Crown Prosecution Service and the Attorney General how it happen . what be now the Independent Office for Police Conduct put to the Metropolitan police the question of whether it have act properly . the Metropolitan police refer that to its directorate of professional standard . Most case of historical sex abuse be investigate by the Sapphire group , but it be not interested in this ; it have pass it to the directorate of professional standard , who be the people who actually do the investigation . when the IOPC or whatever it be call in those day refer it to they , the directorate of professional standard come to the conclusion , " there ' s nothing wrong here . " I be go to spell out briefly some of the thing that be wrong . first , the Metropolitan police and the CPS hold a press briefing announce that Gurpal Virdi have assault somebody under the age of 16 . they have know from the day after they start investigate that the complainant be over 16 . they accuse Gurpal Virdi of use a collapsible police baton up the bottom of this young man , when there be another police officer in the back of the van and another in the front . they have never find the driver and the person they believe be the other person in the van deny there be an assault . secondly , they say the arrest be make in a different place from where the complainant say it happen . thirdly , they say it be a different kind of police van . fourthly , they say there be no serious assault and , most importantly , that there be no collapsible police truncheon or baton . that be not a big surprise , because the allege event be in 1986 and collapsible police baton be issue in 1995 , year later . this case be supervise by a gold group at Scotland Yard — so we be talk about senior officer — with the CPS . how do they manage not to notice that the case be impossible ? I could go on at great length , but I make this point , through the Minister , to those responsible . when we have this meeting , I would like they to explain how the prosecution manage to avoid pay any attention to the only documentary evidence that be leave . Gurpal Virdi ' s notebook have be take by the police and destroy . what be available be a conviction notice in the Lambeth East juvenile court from spring 1987 about the complainant . he have be arrest a month before by an officer with Gurpal Virdi . the complainant never mention that arrest , which definitely do take place . he have make up nonsense about the time he be arrest in the autumn of 1986 , but there be no evidence whatsoever that Gurpal Virdi be involve . other officer be name — the officer in charge be name , but he make no statement . when ask , he say , " I know nothing about it . " if the complainant think that he have be mistreat by Gurpal Virdi in the autumn of 1986 , one would expect that he would have mention that at the time of his arrest , which certainly do happen , in the spring of 1987 . he do not mention it at all . the investigate officer do not even interview the other police officer who be know to have be part of that arrest . that be the level of either incompetence or target of a good police officer that we be see here . I want the police , the IOPC , the CPS and Ministers to get together in a meeting , preferably with I , Gurpal Virdi and his lawyer , Matt Foot of Birnberg Peirce , to go through what need to be establish , so that people can have confidence in the Metropolitan police in the future . if they decline , that confidence be not go to return . we have all hear Sir Mark Rowley speak recently about historical thing that he be go to put right and about the officer he say he do not want to keep in his force . many of those involve in what I have be talk about will have retire . I wish they no ill , but I want to know that no other person like Gurpal Virdi — one of the good people I have know — can be subject to something like the early incident with the racist material he do not produce or be put through a totally bogus charge after they have retire . all the evidence available show that he be not involve , and that the crime do not happen and could not have happen . I be not satisfied and I will not be . therefore , if I have to come back this time next year for another Adjournment debate , I will , but I will name name . I will name the name of every officer involve , everyone involve in the Crime Prosecution Service and the other . I would prefer not to do so ; I would prefer to get this sort out . I believe that , if the commissioner agree with the IOPC and the CPS , they could get two people to look together at what be available and what happen . they could then produce a report . the Metropolitan police could then say that they have learn the lesson and , if they feel like it , apologise to Gurpal Virdi for the third time . it be a pleasure to rise today to speak once again in the aptly name Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate . although we sit on opposite side of the House , the one thing that he and I have in common be our fierce passion for the community that we represent . few fight hard for their constituent than Sir David and the summer Adjournment debate be always the pinnacle of that . I wish to open today by talk about my own little corner of the world and the fabulous thing that be happen in Swansea East . I have speak a lot about the everyone deserve project , which provide lunch club , hamper and cook meal to family across the constituency who might otherwise go without during the school holiday and festive time . thank to a host of generous donation and the support of colleague , both here and in the Senedd , I be delighted last year to be able to extend the provision to community in Neath , Aberavon and Merthyr Tydfil . I be as delighted to be able to do the same during the upcoming summer break . with household across the area feel the pinch , demand be high than ever , but , throughout the holiday , everyone Deserves will be provide lunch for some fantastic free activity to ease the burden for parent who be struggle with the extra cost that school holiday incur . I think that , as we head into the summer recess , it would be a perfect opportunity to thank everybody who have play a part in make everyone deserve the success that it be . there be the company that readily donate fund and resource every time I pick up the phone and ask — I apologise to anyone I forget : Budget Carpets , Hygrove Homes , low cost Vans , Coastal Housing , Greggs , Warburtons , Morrisons , the solicitor Peter Lynn and Partners , Morganstone , JCR Wealth , ADS Ltd , Dawsons and AB Glass ; the wholesaler , Bidfood and Castell Howell , who go out of their way not just to process and deliver our initial order , but to accommodate my ever change last - minute request ; the Swans , the Ospreys , the Evening Post , Rob Stewart and Swansea City Council , which we could not do this without . I thank , too , Huw Cooze from Visions Creative for volunteer his time to design our poster and advertising , and my friend since childhood , the hugely talented Mal Pope , for record his music and donate the proceed from his album sale to the campaign . I also wish to thank my political partner who help to spread the support from everyone deserve to more and more people across our little part of south Wales — Julie James MS for Swansea West , Jeremy Miles MS for Neath , my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) — can someone please tell he that I say something nice about he , so I do not have to do it again ? — and my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) , about whom I be always happy to say nice thing . then there be my team , who spend not just their work hour , but their own time chasing order , organise delivery , pack hamper , and do whatever they can to make sure that no one go without . so I say thank you from my heart to Emma , David , Ellie , Sarah , Tom , and Jo . finally , I thank my long - suffer husband , David , who have no choice but to get involve . there be so many people who make everyone deserve happen , so to all those I have mention , and to all those I may have forget , thank you . we be almost the good team in Wales last year , but might have be pip to the post by the Welsh football team who get to the World Cup for the first time in 64 year . they show great generosity by let the other team win , but I hope that they know how proud we be of they as a nation , and to see they on the world stage be fantastic . I can only echo the word of another supporter of everyone Deserves , Michael Sheen , who in his rouse speech , before the boy leave for the tournament , tell they : " every man , woman and child stand with you . " I take this opportunity to once again congratulate all the boy , particularly our captain and national hero Gareth Bale , who retire from international football at the end of that season . Gareth very generously support everyone Deserves and I be delighted to see he collect his mbe recently , as he be someone who truly deserve to be recognise for everything he have do . I be quite emotional when I see his name on the last queen ' s honours list . I be equally emotional when I see in the first King ' s honours list the name of another person with whom I work closely and who I be honour to call a friend : menopause warrior and all - round superwoman Davina McCall . Davina have lead from the front and use her platform , like so many other , to break down the barrier and shatter the stigma that have surround the menopause for so long . I have no doubt that she would join I in champion those who do not have the platform that we do , but who have campaign tirelessly and passionately to change the narrative and ensure that all woman have fair and equal access to the support that they need , be that medical support and treatment , support in the workplace or holistic lifestyle support . over the last year , we have see some real progress and that be largely thank to all those who be campaign so vehemently at grassroot level . Awareness be be raise . we now have a prepayment certificate available to reduce the cost of hormone replacement therapy , and more and more woman be feel support by their clinician , employer , partner and society more widely . we be certainly not there yet ; we will not be until every woman be able to easily access the treatment she choose and able to stay in work and seek promotion , if she want to . we should celebrate the progress that we have make , and I hope to stand here at next year ' s summer Adjournment debate welcome even more progress . but for now , I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , colleague across the House and everyone who make this place work a very happy and healthy summer break . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) . I would never accuse she of Godwottery , because she be a plain speaker . indeed , one of the thing I enjoy in her speech be her mention of Gareth Bale , who be bear to play for Tottenham Hotspur . I be particularly pleased to participate in the debate because we well remember Sir David Amess , who would be sit not too far away from I here and rattle through 27 or 28 different individual case . I do not intend to try to emulate he in that . I congratulate my friend on Harrow Council — the new Conservative - lead council — who have get to grip with the Labour overspending and disastrous service that have go on for more than 13 year . the administration have have to get to grip with provide decent service and deal with a budget that be not properly construct . in local government , ridiculous bureaucratic situation can arise , and I will mention one case . one of my erstwhile constituent have be transfer from Harrow Council to Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council . under current legislation , Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council do not have to take up the case of this vulnerable individual , so we be leave with the ludicrous position where Harrow Council be try to provide care and fund someone who be literally 100 mile away . that , to I , be something that we need to consider and to fix . let I move on to the key issue of the day : the ridiculous decision by the Mayor of London to expand the ultra - low emission zone to outer London . the judicial review take place on 4 July . the Mayor be currently do everything he can to distract everyone from the disastrous expansion . we be wait for the result of that review and the judge in the case have agree to try to get the review announce by 31 July . the Mayor be now recruit a propaganda specialist to promote the scheme , at a salary of £ 75 , 000 . he might actually just withdraw the scheme and let we get on with our life . even Labour mp in London be now turn on the expansion . the labour candidate in the Uxbridge by - election be apparently in favour of ULEZ , then he be against it , and now he have be kidnap by his Labour minder in case he actually speak to voter about the subject . the Mayor completely ignore resident ’ view , as 66 % of the population of outer London be against ULEZ . I start a petition in my constituency against it , which more than 1 , 000 people have already sign . I be look forward to the judge strike down the position , so that we can get back to a consultation and turn the mayoral election next year into a referendum on ULEZ . the key be that a nurse or clean work a night shift and on a much low income than most of society will have to pay £ 25 to get to and from work . if they start their shift at 8 pm and finish at 4 am , they pay twice in order to get to and from work . there be not even an option to use public transport because there be no service at 4 am and frankly Transport for London be frequently on strike anyway . the Mayor be a true snollygoster . unfortunately , he have dreadful dealing with TfL , especially on the Metropolitan line , which run through part of my constituency . in 2022 - 23 , more than one in seven train be cancel . Bear in mind that many of the station that we be talk about in outer London receive only one train every 30 minute . that mean that many commuter wait up to an hour or more just to get to and from home . I be very disappointed that TfL continue to disrupt the service by strike . it be cause havoc for traveller who need to get to work , hospital , school and so on . I hope that , rather than take strike action next week , and Labour colleague join the picket line , we can engage in a sensible discussion and get everyone back to work as fast as possible . there be a truly ridiculous proposal , which have astonish even I , concern a cluster of high - rise building in Edgware . technically , it be in the neighbouring borough and constituency , but on a small site there be plan for one block of 29 storey and five other block of 24 storey . that will totally change Edgware town centre , morph it into a Canary Wharf twin and overwhelm the infrastructure . it will affect my constituency as well . to make matter bad , the construction will take more than four year , kill the business and small and medium - sized enterprise already on the high street . I be pleased that my constituent be respond to my consultation on that , and so far 96 % be totally opposed . after a long and challenging selection process , I be delighted that the former leader of Harrow Council , Councillor Susan Hall , have be select as the conservative candidate to become the next Mayor of London next year . she have a track record of make Sadiq Khan feel very uncomfortable , have be leader of the City Hall Conservatives since 2019 before stand down to focus on the mayoralty . many of we will have watch the debate that she have have with Sadiq Khan , often knock he off his pre - write script and expose his failure to tackle issue head on . the vision be very clear : London be safe with Susan . as the Mayor of London be also the police and crime commissioner , I be confident that she will bring to the role exactly what she be promise , as the chair of the Greater London Authority Police and Crime Committee . she will reverse ULEZ on day one and invest £ 200 million in the Metropolitan police . carry on the good news , I be pleased that Stefan Voloseniuc , who be a good friend of mine , have be select as the conservative party ' s candidate for Brent and Harrow , which be currently represent by Labour ' s ulez - back Krupesh Hirani . Stefan emanate from Romania , and we have a very large romanian population in north - west London , include 12 , 000 adult of romanian extraction in my constituency alone . clearly , it be great to see people from Romania take an active part , and I be sure that Stefan will be an excellent candidate for we . in my position as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on Israel , I be concerned that there have be a lot of false and misleading propaganda , both in Parliament and online , regard the recent counter - terrorism operation in the Jenin camp . we should be clear that the Jenin camp be be use as a base for terrorist organisation and use to orchestrate attack against innocent civilian . the Israel Defence Forces have act on precise intelligence information and directly target terrorist organisation . indeed , during the operation several hundred improvise explosive device and thousand of grenade be discover , and even holy site such as the al - Nasr mosque have be find with pile of ammunition and explosive device . the IDF neutralise 11 conceal ied in densely populate area , clearly highlight the extraordinary terrorist activity in the area , and I be sure that the israeli security force will continue to combat the threat of terrorism . one of the area I have be particularly active on in this Parliament have be the holocaust memorial and learn centre . I be pleased that the Holocaust Memorial Bill have pass on Second Reading and now go on to the Select Committee stage . I be grateful to the Whips for appoint I to the Committee to examine this — I be not sure that I will be feel grateful by the end of September , but we will wait and see . this will act as a memorial to commemorate the man , woman and child who be lose during the war . it will also be an education and learning centre , with an accurate account of this slice of history , with testimony from british perspective . on the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iran , the position in Iran remain at a critical stage . there have be progress from the Government on tough sanction , but frankly it be not enough . we must proscribe the irgc in its entirety . it be a terrorist organisation and should be highlight as such . the jewish Chronicle have highlight the fact that UK university have fund drone research , which be transfer to iranian university and use directly to produce drone . these be then transfer to the Russians to combat the Ukrainians , whom we support , and we salute their brave war against the illegal invasion by Russia . do my hon . friend agree with I that academic need to recognise that they do not live in a status free of geopolitic and national security ? we need to see prosecution bring against some of those academic because they break sanction legislation , evade sanction and help undermine sanction . if we see that , we may finally see academia recognise that it can not continue to partner with the chinese Communist party ' s military organisation or iranian military organisation . academic must recognise that , unfortunately , in some situation they be aid those who would undermine our national security . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I agree completely . move on briefly , I be delighted that my Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Bill be pass , and have in fact receive Royal Assent . it have be a long journey , and I would like to thank everyone involve , include Crisis , Ministers , stakeholder and council . now we will get on with regulate the rogue and force they out of their unfair treatment of vulnerable people . on the India trade deal , I hope we will see it come out very quickly . a lot of progress have be make , but we still have not get to the final trade deal . on smoking , yesterday it be four year since the then Health Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , announce the Government ' s ambition for a smoke - free 2030 . I be pleased to celebrate that yesterday with the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health , which I chair . at the event , Dr Javed Khan , the Public Health Minister — my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) — and other , include the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) , speak extremely well . however , we be not go to hit the target unless prompt action be take . swiftie everywhere will be delighted that Martyn ' s law have be introduce , make it clear that there must be risk assessment for all large venue . I be pleased to have restart my tour of Parliament for constituent , follow a break during the pandemic . so far , we have bring in more than 6 , 000 resident for a tour and an often intense question - and - answer session . while all of we will be return to our constituency after today , I will be host some 60 student in my constituency for work experience . it be the big group I have ever have , and I give warning to my colleague that there will be an onslaught of photo appear on our WhatsApp group with this huge number of people on the street of Harrow . I be pleased that many of my colleague have be in touch with my office seek to know how to run such work experience programme , and I be sure that as a result young people across the country will be have the opportunity of work with mps over the summer . lest I be consider a flibbertigibbet , I come to the close element of my speech . I thank all colleague in the House , those in the other place , the staff in our team , the security team , the catering team , and everyone else who play a key part in keep everything afloat . I wish they a very restful , jolly and fruitful summer recess , spend valuable time with family and friend and , perhaps , on the street as the general election come ever near , and I wish those celebrate early in the week a very happy Muharram . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for initiate this debate ; I have serve on the Committee for some 12 year , and I enjoy work with its Chairman , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) . finally , I pay tribute to my great friend — who will always be remember in this place , not least for his input to these debate , but also for his bright and lovely service to this House and to this country — Sir David Amess . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this afternoon ' s debate , and all the Chairs for the many time they have call on I this year . I thank all the House staff who keep this place run day to day , whether that be the Library , the Table Office , or the kitchen staff who provide sustenance over the long sitting day — we be all grateful . it be hard to believe that this be the second year that we be hold this debate without its now namesake and star contributor , Sir David Amess . he be certainly a hard act to follow , and even in his absence today , that remain the case . he be an exceptional MP , someone who show I great kindness , as I know he do for many colleague . there be lot of thing I want to speak about . the first be a case that be open by my office in August 2021 follow the withdrawal from Afghanistan . my constituent be desperately try to help his young wife leave Kabul — I speak about this case many time in the Chamber . she be the daughter of a translator who work for the allied troop , and be in immeasurable danger . there be some case that you can not help but form an emotional attachment to , and for my team , this be one of they . as such , when we find out last month that the young woman have finally reach Scotland after almost two year , countless letter to countless Ministers and hundred of call to UK Visas and Immigration , there be enormous relief . I have take many an opportunity in this place to criticise the Home Office and its process , but today I want to give some praise . the change to an account management system for Members have transform the relationship my team have with the Department , with open and honest dialogue about case now be the norm . I be grateful that the majority of case my team take to the Home Office these day be resolve within a reasonable timeframe . the thing about casework be that member never know what be go to land on their desk next . some case be straightforward , some be frustrating to resolve , and some be a little bizarre , but every single one of they relate to a real person face a real problem that be have a detrimental effect on their life . even during the busy period , it be so important that we do not start look at casework as a number game . that , I be proud to say , be something that my team and I be always keenly aware of . there be some case where we do not even know where to start in order to resolve it , such as the one that have my chief of staff call around registry office in Mexico to track down a marriage certificate on behalf of a couple who contact I with a visa issue when they be move overseas . despite have a very short timescale to work on , we manage to pull off a great result for they . some case seem like they should be straightforward but get the right result be hard than it should be . my office and I do not admit defeat easily , though , which be how one of my team manage to secure £ 4 , 173 . 28 in backdate pension credit for a constituent , along with a £ 100 goodwill payment . some case be complex by nature , because we be limit by the provision of Government policy , and only a change in policy and legislation will provide the support a constituent need . there be no well example of that than the green deal mis - sell scandal , which be widespread in Scotland and have have long - last , hugely devastating effect on many household , impact that be worsen tenfold by the soar cost of energy over the past year or two . I still have open casework relate to that scandal , but very little recourse be available to those constituent . I have write to Ministers and meet with a number of they , but unfortunately there be little appetite to reopen the case . the one leave , those that be not resolve by the initial response to the scandal , be the one that will not be easy to fix . instead , some victim have have to take their case to tribunal , and my constituent now have to wait for the outcome of those case . I will continue to advocate on their behalf , though ; I will not accept that there be nothing Ministers can offer . do the hon . member share my disgust that , year after I be tell by Ministers in this place that they be quite willing to accept that all Helms customer have essentially be rip off and should be recompense , we be still wait for compensation for our constituent ? I could not agree more . a lot of we have be fight for those affect by green deal mis - selling . unfortunately , Helms do not get its comeuppance . child Maintenance Service - relate casework have also dominate a lot of time in my office this term . a short while ago , I be delighted to bring two of my constituent to an all - party parliamentary group meeting , where they speak about their experience with the system and the difficulty it have cause they . let someone explain in their own word how the system have fail they can be very powerful . some CMS case have be open with my office for two year or so , and not for lack of effort to get they resolve . I be pleased to say , however , that the long standing case be recently resolve , with a constituent finally be allow to move to collect and pay after year of her ex - partner refuse to keep up with payment . perseverance be key in many of these case — never take no for an answer — because I recognise that ultimately it be the child who lose out . there be another kind of inquiry that every Member get from constituent — often hundred every month , span a broad spectrum of issue . I be of course talk about lobby email . I have always be clear that any constituent who write to I will get a response , so every one of these email relate to any policy be read and get a personal answer — over 1 , 200 since the start of this year alone . no matter the issue , be it the cost of living , the minimum wage , pension , or perhaps the sale of live lobster on Amazon , or new classification and restriction on import reptile , wherever possible I take my constituent ' concern and turn they into action . sometimes I send a letter to the Minister responsible ; sometimes , if the opportunity present itself , I raise it here in the Chamber , as I do the " Boys need Bins " campaign , which aim to improve the provision of sanitary bin in male public toilet and to remove the stigma around male incontinence . when a constituent ask I , follow her father ' s bicycle accident , to raise the importance of wear a helmet on the road , I do so during a recent session of business question . constituent request dictate the majority of my diary even when I be down here in London , attend specific debate at their request or drop in at parliamentary event to hear more about particular issue . they elect I to make their voice hear , and that be what I strive to do every day I be here . one of the most rewarding aspect of this job be see the impact our work have on real people and spend time with our local community . I have a lovely time at two big constituency event recently , start with Landemer day in Rutherglen . a long - stand traditional gala day , it be wonderful to see young Rutherglen High School student Ruby crown the Landemer queen , support by her court and the many attendee on the day . I also enjoy Summerfest in Cambuslang early this month , although , sadly , it look as though that may be the final one , after a quarter of a century . organiser Liz and John and the event committee have do their community proud , and I know that I be not alone in my appreciation of their hard work over the year . there be set to be another community fun day event in Hillhouse this year , but unfortunately , thank to a group of youth , the community council now have a mountain to climb to make it happen . the youth break into the storage unit where donation for the local food bank and equipment for the fun day be be store and set it on fire — a deliberate act of destruction , just for the sake of destroy something . thousand of pound - worth of equipment use for the benefit of the community now need replace . the community council have my full support , and I hope it can reach its fundraising target . unfortunately , antisocial behaviour seem to be an issue in many part of the constituency at the moment . that have be voice to I by many small business in the area . it be not abnormal to see a rise in that behaviour over the summer month as school break up and good weather push more people outside . I find myself speak to local police officer about it often , and I place on record my thank to the local inspector for my area , who have engage openly and regularly with I and my team . I also wish to place on record my thank for the hard work of the Royal Burgh of Rutherglen , Cambuslang , Halfway , Hillhouse , Blantyre , Burnside and Meikle Earnock Community Councils , which do so much work for the resident in the local area . it be very much appreciate by I and many of my constituent . I have five more thank to give today , and I have save the good for last . as member of the House , we all know how important it be that every member of our staff care about our constituency as much as we do . after all , we could not do our job effectively without their support behind we . I can say with absolute confidence that every member of my staff have the same passion for the work and the people we serve as I do , so I take this opportunity to thank Kim Glendenning , Natalie Burgess , Gillian Mair , Hannah Nicol and Rowan Clark for their continue dedication , loyalty and hard work for the constituent of Rutherglen and Hamilton West . I will come to a close now . I be surprised I be call so early , so thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish every colleague across this House , member of staff and House staff a restful summer break . I be increasingly concerned about development in Bosnia , a country for which I have a great affection . watch what happen there have understandably go off the international boil , which be unsurprise consider what be happen in Ukraine , but we should not forget what have happen there in the past and could easily happen there again . in my view , the situation in Bosnia be rather like pick up a lemonade bottle and shake it around . when we put it down , we think it be still clear and there have be no change , but try take the top off . Bosnia could easily be like that . Bosnia have a population of about 3 . 2 million people . on fundamental religious ground , the population split three main way , though everyone be racially south Slav . Muslims make up about 51 % , and they be often call Bosniaks . Eastern Orthodox Christians represent 31 % , and be often call bosnian Serbs . the roman catholic population , often call bosnian Croats , be about 15 % . the House will recall that the bosnian Serbs attack their neighbour in 1992 , seize large tract of ground , which they — horrid word — ethnically cleanse of non - Serbs . as the war go on , the Croats and Muslims also carry out their own version of ethnic cleansing . an estimate 2 million people be drive from their home by the end of the war . in September 1992 , the United Nations authorise a deployment to Bosnia of a military force call the United Nations protection force . the UN troop be dub peacekeeper , but actually they be hardly that . there be no peace to keep in Bosnia and the UNPROFOR do not have the mandate to enforce it either . although several british Army observer , medic and liaison staff be already on the ground in Sarajevo and elsewhere , Britain ' s main contribution to the UNPROFOR be a battlegroup base on the 1st Battalion , the Cheshire Regiment and a reconnaissance squadron of the 9th / 12th Lancers . actually , about 2 , 400 troop deploy under what be call Operation Grapple in November 1992 . some might recall that I be the unfortunate british battlegroup commander . since then , british military personnel have be involve in Bosnia one way or another , and 59 service personnel have lose their life . among those death be my escort driver , Lance Corporal Wayne Edwards , and my interpreter , Dobrila Kalaba . both be shoot in the head by sniper , and their loss still haunt I as I be responsible for they , or responsible for where they be . the war , which start in 1991 , shortly before I be first there , continue until the massacre of Srebrenica in July 1995 and end with the Dayton peace accord in 1996 . that stop the fighting and establish a triumvirate of uneasy power sharing between the three major side : bosnian Serbs , bosnian Croats and Bosniaks . Dayton be suppose to last only a few year until politic could be adjust to make Bosnia a somewhat democratic and viable state , but the Dayton arrangement have become the status quo , and they be crack at the seam . for several year now , the bosnian Serbs in so - call Republika Srpska have be seriously threaten to break away , and periodically the bosnian Croats be make similar growling noise . almost all authority on the region believe that if that happen , we could easily see the renewal of civil war . between 1992 and 1996 , approximately 200 , 000 people be kill in the bosnian civil war and , as I have mention , 2 million people be displace from their home . please , God , that tragedy must not be repeat . a number of we in the House speak regularly on this issue , and I fear that sometimes colleague feel that it be a repeat mantra and we be just fearful for no reason or there be not an escalation . my right hon . friend mention Dodik ' s secessionist policy ; Dodik have now introduce a new law that disapplie to Republika Srpska the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s ruling . do my right hon . friend agree that that be the most acute threat to the Dayton agreement that we have ever see ? when we raise our voice in the House and say we be concern , it be because of meaningful change that put at risk peace on the ground . I thank my hon . friend , who be a very good friend , for intervene on an extremely pertinent point to which I will return in a little while . I believe that we , the British , be in a good position to influence what happen in Bosnia . our reputation be high as a result of the action of our diplomat , soldier and politician over the year . in that respect , I should mention my very good friend , the late Lord Paddy Ashdown , who be the High Representative . he be outstanding , and his reputation for deal with very tricky situation remain untouched by anyone else since . when I visit Bosnia , people always say to I that they wish Paddy be still there . in my experience , the one thing that Bosnians respect be well - motivated and professional people who be not corrupt , who be on the ground , know what they be do and be prepare to act . Paddy Ashdown be certainly that . I do not suppose it will come as a surprise to colleague that our armed force fit the bill quite well too . currently , we have very few military force on the ground in Bosnia and we do not contribute to the so - call EUFOR , the European Union Force in Bosnia , which be utterly and completely useless and do nothing but wander around the country flag - wave , sit in vehicle and send back irrelevant report . I gather we have a few staff officer at the nascent NATO headquarters recently establish there , although for some extraordinary reason I be not allow to visit the place when I be there recently . I have be to Bosnia three time in the past 12 month . for several year I have argue that it would send a significant signal be we to send a british battlegroup to Bosnia , perhaps under NATO command . I suggest this again , and it should happen soon — especially as there be grow evidence of the increase malign influence of Russia among bosnian Serbs . as I care about Bosnia , I find it a particular tragedy that around 100 , 000 people normally leave the country every year , out of a population of 3 . 4 million . they be predominantly young , well - train people . imagine if a similar proportion — about 3 % — of our young in the UK be to leave each year : it would be a disaster for our country and for our future . Bosnia be heavily bleed the very people who should be the future of the country . those people would not be leave if they believe they could have a decent job and raise their family in a society that be fair and not corrupt ; I be afraid that corruption remain endemic in Bosnia . I know that our ambassador and Ministers , especially the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy for the region , my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) — who be here but have disappear ; I do not warn he that I be go to refer to he — be fully aware of the situation , and my hon . friend work really hard on it . on that point , let I pay credit to my very good friend , the chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , who set aside quite a lot of her time for care about what happen in the Balkans , but for that reason she have be pillory and threaten . I point out to the House that we have a brave lady here , who stand up and speak for people and try to help they . obviously , Bosnia remain personal to I . our armed force pay a blood price to help the people there . I remember one of my soldier say , when I tell he that we might have to withdraw because those be the order I be get , " we can ' t leave this place , sir — these people , these woman and child , these man . they would be massacre if we weren ' t here . we ' ve get to help they ; we ' re not leave . " I think , " my God , I ' m go to have a mutiny . " I think the people of Bosnia be superb , in all three so - call ethnic - religious group . the decent people of Bosnia just want to be give the chance to live their life in safety , to have their child educate and their politic work , and for corruption not be endemic . we lose 57 british personnel try to help they do that . they must not have die in vain . we should do all we can to help the people of Bosnia . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . and gallant Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) . I certainly concur with his remark on Bosnia . I would describe myself as a fairly assiduous attendee on a Thursday in this place , but in eight year this be the first recess debate that I have take part in . I do have eight year ' worth of recess issue to discuss , but obviously this be a busy debate compare to some previous one , so I have have to pare down my remark . the fact that the debate be so well subscribe be a testament and fitting tribute to Sir David , and I add my own tribute to those who have discuss he and the great work he do here , with a smile on his face at every turn . I also remember Jo Cox , another colleague of ours who be take . both Members be take carry out the bread and butter of a good constituency MP : take part in constituency advice surgery . I remember they both . I recently meet senior staff member at Recovery Across Mental Health — ramh for short — which be a third sector mental health organisation situate in Paisley that provide essential support throughout Renfrewshire . I hear at first hand the very real challenge that the workforce be experience . we all know that there have never be a great pressure on public finance , in part due to a global pandemic and the war in Ukraine , but mostly as a result of 13 year of Tory austerity . the Scottish Government be try desperately to balance the book while also meet the ever increase demand for Government support and intervention — and balance those book get hard every year . time and again , the UK Government be ask to step up and tackle the broken social care sector and provide the additional funding it so desperately need . the potential ripple effect , if step be not take to address issue in the sector , will be catastrophic . without these organisation , the public health and social care sector will become overwhelmed , which will have a negative impact on the quality and standard of care . the third sector fill a void leave by the NHS and local authority and help to ensure that individual can live independently in the community with adequate support . the third sector workforce continue to be let down , overwork , understaffed , underpaid and , crucially , under - represent . with the pressure and high level of moral accountability put on staff , many be now experience burnout . perhaps we be head for a national social care crisis , so we must do more . as chair of both the all - party parliamentary group for scottish sport and the all - party parliamentary group on White Ribbon UK , I be all too aware of the barrier that woman and girl face in the sporting arena . participation and representation be essential in drive gender equality while improve the health and wellbeing of woman and girl , and that must happen through a grassroots approach . I have the opportunity to meet Kyniska Advocacy , which campaign for progressive policy in woman ' s sport with the ambition of enact change . it be essential that the sporting world ensure that both man and woman have equal opportunity and level of respect and , crucially , that they feel safe in take part in sport , particularly with those in a position of trust . I also recently meet with Miss J , the founder of the campaign group end Sexual Misconduct in Sport , who bravely share her live experience to raise awareness and to end sexual misconduct in sport . as I mention at business question this morning , she have ask that all professional sport team in Scotland , and hopefully beyond , sign up to a sexual misconduct policy . the fact that so many team be fail to do so speak volume about the struggle we face . if we want to encourage current and future generation to take part in sport safely , protection be paramount . as a number of recent scandal have show , a huge amount of work remain to ensure that sport be a place where woman and girl can feel safe and where perpetrator of abuse be deal with appropriately . we all have a responsibility and duty not only to be oppose to misogyny , but to actively call it out . the making of excuse for locker - room chat because " boy will be boy " far empower the misogynist narrative , and that must stop . just this week . Glasgow United FC announce that convict rapist David Goodwillie have be select for an upcoming match . that horrendous decision again send the wrong message not only to the victim of sexual violence , but to young fan who idolise these team and sportsman . as show in the case of Mason Greenwood , industry must do more to tackle gender - base violence , and that start with the development of domestic abuse policy and procedure . I be all for give people second chance , but they must , at the very least , show remorse for their action if they wish to be give that opportunity . sporting institution and our player be influential public figure and can significantly challenge sexual misconduct in sport , and they must do more . like many parent these last few week , I find myself catch between Ticketmaster and the plead angelic face of my Taylor - Swift - love daughter . the step design to deter secondary ticketing result in a chaotic frenzy , with many customer who register for a code to purchase ticket be unsuccessful , and those who be successful attempt to sell these free code online for astronomical price . Ticketmaster have also implement a " lead booker " policy on UK tour date , result in severe implication for ticketholder , as many parent who manage to buy ticket for their child must attend the concert because they be unable to pass on all the ticket to their child or their friend . we often talk , rightly , about the largely unregulated secondary ticketing market . we need to take action on the obscene excess profit of ticket merchant such as Ticketmaster . for example , regular ticket on the AEG site be be sell for £ 600 each or thereabout , and AEG ' s fee for four ticket be £ 250 — just for process a transaction that take mere second . surely that be not right . in fact , it be more than most band would make from a ticket sale for a regular concert . it be crazy that that be allow , and we must do more . we should also ban dynamic pricing for concert , which mean that no price be publish prior to sale , with ticket price on demand , mean they often cost hundred of pound and allow Ticketmaster and AEG and the like to include excessive charge . follow my election eight ago I have work with Women against State Pension Inequality campaigner in seek to secure justice from a UK Government who be keen to wash their hand of the whole episode . the campaign push for fair transitional state pension arrangement for all woman bear in the 1950 who have be affect by change to state pension legislation bring in by the 1995 Tory Government . More than 12 , 000 woman across my constituency be affect by the change that raise the pension age initially from 60 to 65 , and then to 66 and 67 by 2028 . the lack of notification , communication and clear guidance by the Government result in many woman have to make life - change decision , have a detrimental impact both financially and emotionally . in 2021 the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman rule against the Government in the WASPI battle , with the watchdog rule that the Department for Work and Pensions be guilty of maladministration by fail to provide adequate notice to 3 . 8 million woman . however , the WASPI woman continue to be let down , with delay in settle compensation ongoing two year after the ruling . a constituent of mine be one of the six test case the ombudsman be look at . her situation be misrepresent in the stage 2 finding . it have have to be look at again , so I hope it will be resolve . it be essential that in these final stage of settlement , WASPI woman receive the compensation they deserve with no further delay . many woman have wait for year , and many have die , sadly . we need to get this do and get it do soon . finally , August will see the world cycling championship come to Scotland . it be a massive event , with more competitor than the Commonwealth game in 2014 . it will be the first time almost every discipline of the sport come together in one place so we can see all the good competitor on earth push themselves and their bike to the limit . the rider in the Tour de France will be there to try to win the right to wear the rainbow jersey for next year , and the event will , I hope , capture the public imagination . I know that road across the central belt and beyond will be line with people cheer on their favourite . it will be broadcast on the BBC free for everybody to watch . sadly , however , as I mention this morning , and as we be see certainly across the scottish news headline today , our man ' s national football team do not enjoy that level of exposure . its match have be lock behind a paywall during the most successful spell for the Scotland man ' s national team in 25 year . that have be incredibly frustrating for most scottish football fan , particularly during a cost of live crisis when every penny be a prisoner and additional tv subscription be at good not a priority and often simply affordable . early this year I host a summit of the main broadcaster in Scotland and the main right holder , Viaplay . there be a real willingness to discuss what be a complex issue and work constructively to see what can be do , but the bottom line be this be about much more than right , fee and subscriber number . we have see that today , with viaplay try to exit the UK market and sell on its football right , which include the league cup in Scotland and the Scotland man ' s national team — it also hold the right to the Welsh and Northern irish man ' s national team . I have many phone call to make on this issue after this debate be over . both our man ' s and woman ' s national football team play a huge role in our national culture , and more so than most because our opportunity to perform on the international stage have be a little limited in recent year , sadly . the Government have a major role to play in work with the footballe authority , broadcaster and regulator to recognise that importance and the need for people in Scotland to enjoy the same access to their man ' s national team as that enjoy by their counterpart in England and Wales through Channel 4 and S4C respectively . it be time for the Secretary of State to meet I , because I be promise a meeting back in December . my office have chase month after month ; I have raise this twice now at business question and I have even raise it at Prime Minister ' s question , but I can not get a meeting with the Secretary of State . I hope , give the news today , I will finally get that meeting . it be a great pleasure to speak in this Sir David Amess Adjournment debate . there be a number of issue that I would like to raise before the House adjourn . first , on health , I be delighted that we have secure £ 19 . 4 million for a new community diagnostic centre in Scunthorpe . that , alongside our new A & E , which I have have the pleasure of look around — thankfully , not as a patient — be very significant for Scunthorpe and a once - in - a - generation improvement in our local healthcare provision . I be particularly delighted to see how pleased the staff in the A & E be with their new facility and the fact that they have be consult and involve in the decision that be make as the A & E be design . alongside that good news , I want to raise the issue of access to NHS dentistry , which continue to be a concern for my constituent . I would like to press the Government again on the idea of a tie - in , which I know have be discuss , so that those we help to train as dentist then spend a certain percentage of their time deliver NHS dental care to patient . my constituent should be able to access an NHS dentist with ease , and I want to push the Government to ensure that that be the case . again , on health , it have be a privilege to work with the family of local man David Hopkins , who sadly die of a brain tumour . alongside David ' s wife , Nicki , I have be work with the all - party parliamentary group on brain tumour . we have look carefully at how we can get the £ 40 million that the Government have commit to brain tumour research into the hand of the researcher . while we be delighted that the money have be put in place , and it be hugely significant , we have to expedite the research and the testing that be require , so that we can help these patient . it have similarly be a privilege to work alongside our local charity the Beat go on , which be found by Stephen and Gill Ayling follow the tragic death of their son , Nathan . I be a little bit old than Nathan be , but we go to the same school , and I regularly speak to people in the constituency who remember he very fondly . we be incredibly proud of Stephen and Gill in Scunthorpe . their campaign to improve the diagnosis rate of cardiac condition in people age between 14 and 35 have already save life . Stephen and Gill come to London early this year , and we meet the Minister for Primary Care and Public Health , who be extremely helpful . I want to raise again with the Government the need for further research into the effectiveness of screening and to consider what be do in other country and in sport . I would be grateful if the Department of Health and Social Care could provide a further update on that , and specifically on the potential for review . I want to raise the excellent work be do by those at Prostate Cancer Lincs and Humber , a superb local group that support our community and raise awareness . they seem to be everywhere I go — they be incredibly prolific — and I be really grateful for all the work they do . when a family or individual be affect by cancer , whether it be prostate or another form of the illness , it be incredibly difficult . it be an honour to spend some time recently with Joanne Sowerby . Joanne be a really special person , and the work she do in our community through Hope House be exceptional , provide support group , counselling and therapy and help to access a home - cook meal . I know that the work Joanne and her team do make a huge difference , and I want to register my thank to she before the House rise . another area that require continued engagement be transport . while the Government ' s £ 2 bus fare scheme be welcome in Scunthorpe and have go a long way to address the affordability of public transport , the reliability of local service provider have be a problem in recent month on our train . however , I be hopeful that under new management , we will see improvement in rail service , and I hope to raise the specific issue of ticket office in the House later this evening . it would be a strange day be I to stand up in the Chamber and not raise the issue of steelmaking . I welcome the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to our steelwork in May , where I be able to explain again to the government that we make the fine steel in the world in Scunthorpe . I have say this in the House many time : none of we can go a single day without need to use steel , and that will remain the case . we use steel for everything we do , from defence to growth , and we must never , ever lose the ability to make our own . before the House adjourn , I want again to raise my concern about the long - term future of steelmaking . if we ever lose the ability to make our own steel , we will still need to use it and will simply have to ship it from all over the world , from place very far away that will choose how much to charge we , and we will face all the ethical , environmental and strategic concern that that inevitably bring . I know that the Government have be a good supporter of steel in the past , through the safeguard and through pay people ' s wage in Scunthorpe . we remember that well in my constituency . I want to press the Government again before we adjourn to continue to recognise the strategic importance of this industry and its importance to my Scunthorpe constituency . in closing , I want to mention the Redbourne Centre , an outstanding residential home in my constituency that I visit recently . I think I be suppose to go for half an hour , but I end up stay for two hour , because it be so wonderful . I thank all those who work in the care sector in my constituency and throughout the country . the work they be do at the Redbourne Centre be incredible . I particularly enjoy hear from a gentleman who live there about how he have visit Parliament when he be a child and his memory of visit the Chapel of St Mary Undercroft . I put on record my sincere thank to everyone in my constituency who work in that sector . I also want to wish you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and all right hon . and hon . member a safe , healthy and enjoyable recess . I , too , would like to add my voice of thank and gratitude to all the various officer of this House — in the Speaker ' s Office , the Ways and Means office , the Doorkeepers , Hansard , the various Vote Offices , the Table Office and the Admission Order Office , and all those who make our job in this place so much easy . I thank they and wish they all the very good for the summer recess . of course , they will still be here work while we go back to our constituency , but it be important to place on record our thank and gratitude to they . I want to draw a couple of matter to the attention of the House . we recently have a budget debate for Northern Ireland . that be a very painful process ; it be so punish that it have probably set back the prospect of restore the devolution settlement to Northern Ireland . it be very important that we put on record that , even if an Executive be call back , they would not have the resource available that be necessary to run Northern Ireland . we constantly hear in this place about the necessity of Barnett consequential , which send money back to Northern Ireland , but under this budget settlement , any Barnett consequential that Northern Ireland would get would have to be pay back immediately to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Treasury , and could not be use for the thing that they would normally offset , such as teacher ' pay , police service recruitment , nurse ' pay and all the thing that be now slowly but surely be address on the mainland of Great Britain . that be a significant problem for we . if we take teacher ' pay in Northern Ireland , the average first - year teacher in Northern Ireland will get between £ 6 , 000 and £ 8 , 000 less than their counterpart here in Great Britain , depend which part of GB they be in . that disparity in wage be atrocious , and we can take that through all the pay arrangement in the various public sector area , whether it be police , nursing , junior doctor , teacher or civil servant . it really be quite disheartening for those member of staff . we be feed the idea , " get the Executive back , get it up and run , and you can address these problem . " but we can not , because the resource will not be there . it be important that I put that on the record . we do want to see a function Northern Ireland Executive , but they have to function under proper circumstance . I be poise to ask the question of how we can address that . it be important to say that there must be a resource somewhere that will allow we to redress this lack of money . I will address that in the second part of my speech , which be about what I believe to be a national scandal of public waste — even corruption , in some aspect — that must be address by the Government . the much - hype , much - promise HS2 project really need to be examine closely by this House . in my view , it be deprive this kingdom and its people of billion of pound of resource , which could be use in a much well way , but which be currently be siphon off into the single big white elephant this country have pursue . someone in this House have to stand up at some point and say , " the emperor have no clothe . " with regard to HS2 , the emperor have no clothe . it be a waste of public resource . I , for one , be pro infrastructure project . I want to see infrastructure project . I would love to see a proper , high - speed rail network from the very far east , from Leeds , right the way down to the capital . that would be great , but it be never go to happen — certainly not under hs2 . this be a wasteful , mad and utterly out - of - control project that the House must look at . there be a debate in Westminster Hall about it way back in 2021 , in which we call for a full debate in the Chamber . that have never take place . I have ask Front Benchers for that debate , as have other member , but it have not happen , though there have be many promise . neither the Government nor the opposition want it to happen , and I do not know why . I ask the Library to outline for I which build company in Northern Ireland be work on the project . there be many promise give that the project would be a bonanza for company across the whole United Kingdom , but that have not be the case . many company have be leave out . some of the people who have lose out have support and donate to my party . that be not a personal register interest — it do not have to be , because the support be for the party — but I put that on record in the interest of transparency and openness . I be make these comment because of the waste to the rail service . the money spend on the project could have be use to plug many of the gap that colleague across this House want to be plug . on 27 March this year , the National Audit Office , and on 7 July , the Public Accounts Committee , publish report on the subject . they be the most depressing reading , because they confirm our bad fear about Euston ' s redevelopment , and other aspect of the project . that force Lord Berkeley in the other place to say , " Time seem nigh to cancel both project , HS2 Euston and the wide HS2 programme , before any further public money be waste . " despite the various requirement for Euston have be know for the last eight year , nothing have happen on that project . in fact , there have be almost a decade of complete waste . there be no agreement about the number or development of platform , or the station lie - out . no design solution have be put in place . all the problem be know well before Royal Assent be give to the High Speed Rail ( London – West Midlands ) Act way back in 2017 , yet in madness , the Government pursue hs2 . that have result in the big waste of public money . eight year into the planning process , we be call a halt to some of the building . I understand that in recent week , the chief executive officer of HS2 , Mr Thurston , have have to stand down . he have retire after six and a half year . his legacy be one of blow budget . HS2 be initially schedule to start run in 2026 , but there will not be a single train run by then . under the current construction and budgeting guideline , it could be the mid - 2030s or even 2040 before it be up and run . meanwhile , the initial budget of £ 55 billion have be completely blow . in 2019 , I sit in this Chamber when the Minister tell we that the budget for hs2 would be £ 55 . 7 billion . two month later , the chairman of HS2 , Allan Cook , raise the figure to £ 88 . 6 billion . a matter of month later , the Oakervee review say , " I ' m sorry , it will actually be over £ 106 billion . " how can the Government be so wrong in their calculation ? they be not out by a few million , but by ten of billion of pound . that be wholly unacceptable and wholly inadequate . HS2 Ltd ' s late report show that the chief executive receive over £ 617 , 000 per year in salary , yet the management of this project have be an unmitigated disaster , and we be no near an hs2 train run than we be way back in 2017 , when this whole thing start . those in charge of HS2 seem to have be temper expectation recently . the Secretary of State for Transport have have to pause the work on Euston station for two year because , believe it or not , it have already exceed its budget of £ 2 . 6 billion and the cost now stand at £ 4 . 8 billion . meanwhile , the eastern leg of phase 2b , from the west midland to the east midland , have fall in the pecking order and probably will not happen either . there be no money for nurse , there be no money for junior doctor , and there be no money for police officer . there be little money for education , there be little money for other project , and there be little money for some of our defence expenditure . yet , hopelessly , this white elephant keep get fund , and keep get either silence or support from member in this House . that have to be call out . the Government must take a long , hard look at this over the summer , and recognise that this white elephant must cease to be fund . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to take part in the debate , name in honour of our late colleague Sir David Amess . I participate in these debate with he for many year . indeed , I participate in an interview with he to promote his book three week before he be sadly kill . he be a great friend . I also pay tribute to my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) , who be sit in front of I . it be to the huge benefit of the House that he do not suffer the same fate as his driver and his interpreter in that car . his speech demonstrate , loudly and clearly , to the House and the nation how important it be to have colleague here with different skill and different knowledge . may I add , very briefly , to what my hon . friend have say ? we be all aware that my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) do great service to his country in Bosnia , for which he be rightfully award the Distinguished Service Order . he be far too modest to mention that , but I think that it be worth put it on the record none the less . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for add to my tribute . I now want to raise two urgent issue relate to shoot and farming . before do so , I should declare my interest as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on shooting and conservation , vice - president of the British Association for Shooting and Conservation , a shoot partner and a farmer . I very much regret the necessity to raise the unexpected policy change on the part of the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs that will deprive shoot release gamebird on special protection area with a 500 - metre buffer zone of the benefit of general licence 43 , force each of they to apply to Natural England , which will then advise Ministers on the signing off of each individual licence to release gamebird . I ask the House to bear with I as I explain the importance of that decision , which DEFRA take in full knowledge of the shooting calendar and communicate to shoot even though bird have already be order and be about to be release . it have cause chaos around the country and result in an animal welfare crisis , threaten redundancy , shoot closure and the bankruptcy of rural business . in short , this be a disaster for rural affair . something similar happen in the spring of 2019 when , after a legal challenge by anti - shoot pressure group , Natural England revoke the general licence to control pest bird at precisely the point when the protection give by shoot to ground - nest , lay and fledge bird be critical for their survival . there be a similar outcry from shoot at that time , and the then Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , react very differently . he take over Natural England ' s function , and issue new general licence which allow the necessary p control . he be a Minister who know what be right , and he be not overawe by Natural England . what a difference from the way in which the matter be be handle today ! in this case , it be unacceptable for minister to treat stakeholder like mushroom , promise they consultation and engagement , accept the need for early notice , and then keep they in the dark . that be precisely what happen in this case , despite early promise . shoot organisation be give only a few day ' notice of a significant policy change , with the feeble excuse that circumstance do not permit consultation . minister know that supply of game bird be order in November and December before release in the following June and July . that be contain in their evidence to the court in the judicial review in 2019 , so they should have know that their decision would leave shoot in an impossible position , expect imminent delivery of thousand of bird that could not be release and could not be cull , with very limited market for resale . bird over nine week old can not be keep in pen because they would attack each other — hence the animal welfare crisis to which DEFRA have offer no solution yet . shoot have be refuse licence , with estate threaten with bankruptcy . military shoot , which provide social benefit for veteran , have be shut down , and shoot with excellent conservation credential over decade have be refuse a licence even though they protect rare and magnificent bird specie that inhabit their land . who will protect those specie if the gamekeeper have be make redundant ? meanwhile , the application process for a licence be in an almighty mess , with decision delay , application muddle and lose , shoot leave wait for week for a decision , and those that have be give licence in some case subject to unworkable and increasingly bizarre restriction . it be simply not possible to keep bird ready to be release now until September and to get bird in any number at that date , and it be unethical to shoot such young bird when the season start . why have this happen ? DEFRA ' s justification for this disaster be the prevention of avian influenza , AI , but that justification be deeply flawed . no game bird have ever be release when infect by AI . there be no record of any wild bird be infect by the release of game bird . outbreak of AI in the UK do not correlate to the area in which game bird be release and do not occur when game bird be release . the Netherlands have similar level of AI , yet it have no game bird release . this be not a game bird issue . the shadow habitat regulation assessment provide by Natural England to Ministers in January 2023 have not be share with the people whose livelihood and business be now be destroy . will the Minister undertake to publish and share it with all those affect ? if the assessment justify such a drastic change in policy for shooting , presumably DEFRA request similar assessment for other activity that occur in special protection area . for example , do Ministers request assessment on waterbird feeding event , seabird tourism event , and birdwatch event such as the call to come and see two wonderful bee - eater at Trimingham ? that event attract more than 15 , 000 birdwatcher . that be fantastic , but it must have carry a risk of transmit AI . furthermore , public access to the coastal path and bird - ring activity all carry a risk of transmit AI . if Ministers do not request assessment for those activity , will today ' s Minister explain why shooting be single out ? I be tell that the decision to change the policy be make as late as 12 April — it should have happen many month early — but shoot organisation be not inform for over a month . I be also tell that civil servant be under an explicit instruction not to communicate any change to the shooting organisation ahead of time . I wonder whether that be an instruction from official or Ministers . let I give the House some example of the impact on shoot of DEFRA ' s decision . a colleague tell I this week that a syndicate shoot rent by work man in the north that have be the only shoot in the area to protect nest hen harrier for year have be refuse a licence . a community shoot operate around military firing range involve veteran , some of whom have post - traumatic stress disorder and welcome the social engagement that the shoot provide , be also refuse a licence . here be some quote from people who run shoot : " disaster , we have the first day shoot on the 20th October , no chance the bird will be hardy and fit . we will have to refund gun £ 14 , 000 . " " unsustainable loss for we and Court action with supplier and possibly death by gas for a lot of healthy bird . " " believe an October release date would be a workable solution for any shoot just show the lack of knowledge and understand the people process these licence have . shoot will be force to close lead to catastrophic consequence , not only to job and business in these area but also to conservation . " " it will bankrupt the shoot , two gamekeeper will lose their job , just not practical at all . " give that these people have a legitimate expectation that DEFRA would honour its promise to " engage early and consult with the industry " , and a legitimate expectation , when they order the bird , that the licensing regime would not change , will the Minister commit to provide compensation to those shoot that have and will lose out entirely because of defra ' s decision ? the Minister know that I , and many colleague , seek assurance on numerous occasion that this problem would be sort out , and we be give those assurance . I very much regret the necessity to say that those assurance have not be honour . in the light of that , and the catalogue of mistake and injustice , will the Minister not take the obvious decision that address the problem that the Department have create for itself and other , and immediately renew general licence 43 for all shoot locate on specially protect area ? that general licence have subsist for decade and I can not see why we need it to be withdraw at this juncture . secondly , I would like to raise the urgent issue of the high - level stewardship scheme , which a number of people in my farming constituency have contact I about in the last week . the deadline be approach for many to transfer from the high - level stewardship scheme and apply for the new mid - tier countryside stewardship scheme . the main difficulty in complete the application be that the Rural Payments Agency and DEFRA website be not function properly in relation to the new scheme . to exacerbate the delay in move to the new scheme , the RPA be provide little to no communication with those farmer who have query about how to apply for the scheme , mean that desperate constituent , try to apply before the deadline , be contact my office for help and support . the deadline for many be come up in the middle of next month and I urge the Department to provide the communication and support require to help those try to transition to the new scheme , as they have be advise to do . this be cause great consternation for my constituency farmer and , no doubt , many other farmer up and down the country , at their busy harvest time of year . in view of these communication problem with the RPA , will the Minister consider delay the deadline for application to the mid - tier countryside stewardship scheme ? that seem only fair , consider the difficulty people be have with communicate with the RPA . in closing , Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish you , Mr Speaker , colleague , all our very hard - work staff and the hard - work staff in the House , a happy recess and a chance to recharge their battery . it be a privilege to speak in this debate and to remember the late Sir David Amess , who rattle off so many issue when he use to speak in the debate . I be take he as my inspiration for this speech , although I will not do it as fast as he would have do it . it have be another remarkably busy session for I and my team , and three and half year into this job , it continue to be an enormous privilege to serve the people of Putney , Roehampton , Wandsworth town and Southfields . I invite you , Mr Deputy Speaker , to join I at the Roehampton community week celebration and event in August . it would be an honour if you can join we and it will be the highlight of the summer in my constituency . I thank everyone involve in my Putney Gives campaign to support donation to our local foodbank . the synagogue , the mosque , church , school and business all come together , and we donate two third of a tonne of much - need food and other provision to local people who be really struggle at this time during the summer . I have receive more than 18 , 500 email from constituent since the parliamentary Session begin in May last year and my hard - work team and I have send out nearly 27 , 000 in reply . I thank my hard - work and care parliamentary staff team — Matt , Dan , Mercy , Anna , Jack and Anisah — for all of their work . together with constituent across the constituency , we be a campaigning team and I have be campaign hard on the climate emergency ; the housing crisis ; cladding ; discrimination ; young carer ; early year service ; youth service ; special educational need ; tackle crime ; clean up our air ; the NHS ; save bus route ; and deal with sewage in river . we save some allotment in Southfields from be develop on . we be campaign for a lift for East Putney station . we be also seek to reopen Hammersmith bridge — yes , it be still close and I can not believe it either ! we need funding from the Government to reopen it . we be campaign to stop the closure of ticket office and to increase safe cycle lane and cycle parking , so that more people who want to cycle in our wonderful constituency can do so . that be far from an exhaustive list . as we close for the summer and this long session continue , the Government continue to provide more question than answer , so I have several issue I wish to raise today . first , I want to thank all those in NHS Supply Chain for movement on our campaign for NHS uniform to be standardise . in the equivalent debate three year ago , I talk about Putney ' s Scrubbery , which , at that time , with covid hard upon we , have mobilise lot of volunteer to make scrub in hospital . as they do so , they find out that the NHS scrub be not fit for purpose : they be make for man who be much big than most of the staff ; and they be not standardise across hospital , which make it difficult to do laundry service and cost a lot more money . we have be campaign on this issue . as a result , follow hard work by staff at NHS Supply Chain , this have be turn around . some 50 , 000 people get involve in the consultation and now uniform that be more comfortable , fit for purpose and save money be be develop . so I be grateful to all of those who have help with that campaign . my next issue be probably the big question be ask by Putney resident at the moment : where be the Renters ( Reform ) Bill ? every week , with bated breath , I have look at the Order Paper to see what be on in the next week in here , but I have never see that Bill . will the Minister explain at the end of this debate to the 21 , 000 private renter in my constituency , which have an average rent of more than £ 4 , 500 a month , where the Bill be ? why do I have to keep ask about it ? why be it take so long ? it have be 1 , 500 day and four Prime Ministers since the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) first promise to scrap no - fault eviction , back in April 2019 . that be announce with huge fanfare but it be never follow up . the situation be get desperate . since then , more than 50 , 000 household have be threaten with homelessness by section 21 notice . no - fault eviction be a lead cause of household approach their council for homelessness relief . no - fault eviction have go up by 116 % this year and , with mortgage rise be pass on by landlord , many renter be face homelessness . I have speak to many in the past few week . the Deputy Prime Minister reiterate the line at Prime Minister ' s question recently that the Bill would be bring forward when parliamentary time allow . we have have plenty of parliamentary time since then , and we will probably have some more this afternoon , but we will not see the Bill this side of the summer recess , leave renter across the country wait yet again . I thank all the school in my constituency that have welcome I to visit they . I get a lot of question and answer — I get all sort of question . I be give a hard time , rightly , by lot of young people from across the constituency , but every time I talk with school and young people they raise one issue above every other : mental health . we need to talk about child and adolescent mental health service and the long waiting list . a quarter of a million child in the UK with mental health problem have be deny the help they need because the NHS be struggle to keep up with the demand for service . some 95 % of GPs believe that mental health service for child and young people be critically fail and have deteriorate in the past six year . minister have fail to deliver on parity of esteem for mental health service and child , especially , be be badly let down . labour have a plan for this . we will provide a specialist mental health support service in every secondary school . we will put an open - access mental health hub for child and young people in every community , provide that much - need early intervention — prevention . we can not wait until we be in government — we can not wait for that — to do something about this matter . I seek a response from the Government on their solution to this issue . they be very welcome to steal and implement labour ' s plan for improve our mental health service . my next issue be drive test waiting time . this have be concern for many of my constituent who have be wait an extraordinary amount of time to get their test book . many be unable to take up new job because , by the time they have manage to book a test , they have lose their job offer . that be very concerning . recently , I have to book a test with my daughter and find that it be hard to get a test date than to get Taylor Swift or Glastonbury ticket . we wake up at 6 o ' clock on a Monday morning , go online , and then find that there be 8 , 400 people in the queue ahead of we for the test . we have to wait half an hour for the queue to go down , and then we jump on the last remain test in the whole London area , which be many mile away from we in north London . this crisis be go on , and I do not think that it be be raise enough in the House , which be why I be do so now . in England , the average wait time for a test be 13 . 6 week . before 2020 , it be just six week , which be an acceptable amount of time , but wait about six month on average be just not acceptable . in London , it be bad . of the 26 test centre in London , 16 have wait time of 24 week — the average be 17 and a half week . in the many write parliamentary question that I have put to the Department for Transport , I have ask exactly how long people be have to wait , how many londoner be able to get test in London , and what the situation be across the country . the Department could not give I information on that . official say that they have no datum because the moving and the rebooking of test mean that they do not know when people first book their test . that be not good enough . if the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency do not even have the datum on waiting list time , it can not fix the problem . will the Minister look at the system , as it really be not work at the moment , and take this matter up with the Department for Transport and the DVSA ? the next issue , which have cross - party support , be my campaign to ban plastic in wet wipe . it have come a long way and I know that member be wait with bated breath to find out what the next step be . I introduce my private Member ' s Bill in 2021 , and it be support by member from across the House . billion of wet wipe be use every year , and , because they contain plastic , they do not break down , they block sewer , they add cost to our water bill and they cause environmental damage in our river and ocean . there be a consultation , which be great , and it end in February last year . supplier , retailer and all part of the industry be unite in say that a ban could be achieve . Tesco and Boots have lead the way as retailer , ban plastic in all the wet wipe that they sell , which amount to billion of wet wipe a year . producer and retailer agree that a date could be set , and that they could introduce a ban . the Government ' s plan for water be publish in April . there be the opportunity to get the ban . it include an announcement from the government that it would be do — fantastic . so far so good , but there be no actual ban and there be no actual date . instead , we have a promise of another consultation . I ask the Minister today : why be there another consultation ; when will it be launch ; and when will the actual ban come in ? I wish to finish on the climate emergency . one of the first thing I do when I be elect MP for Putney be set up the Putney Environment Commission . it be a wonderful thriving group of activist and local people who want to take ownership of our local environment and tackle the climate emergency globally , nationally , locally , and in our own garden . we hold a recent meeting focus on the need to save nature , and how much of a nature - deplete country we be compare with other country . local people in Putney , Roehampton and Southfields see the datum , they see Europe be scorch as we speak with record - break heat , and they see the inaction of the Government , and they be horrified . they do not want to stand by and do nothing about it . it be not just the people of Putney who be concerned about the failure of the Conservative Government to do enough on the environment . the Climate Change Committee have highlight 18 area in which the Conservative Government be fail on energy and climate . those include failure to reform the planning system to bring more home - grow power online ; failure on renewable ; failure on energy efficiency ; failure on make new home green ; failure in comparison to other country ; failure to take global climate leadership ; failure on heat pump ; failure on hydrogen for home heating ; failure on the delivery of nature target ; failure to deliver on international commitment , instead go backwards ; failure to grasp the opportunity to protect consumer ; failure on worker and skill ; failure to address the UK ' s second highest - emit sector , which be building ; and failure on fossil fuel and stop more coal mine from be build . the Government have fail to ensure that their own Departments , such as the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , meet the Committee ' s priority . they have also fail on green financing , which should be underpin all of those action . the Government should be go far and fast on climate action . I hope there be time for reflection over the summer recess , and that action on the climate can be speed up incredibly . we can not wait for the Labour Government who will take that action : we need it now . today , there be train strike and an NHS doctor ' strike . my son graduate from university next week , but be tell last week when he should have have his mark that it have not be allocate , so he will be graduate without even a mark after three difficult year at university under covid . that be because the Government have fail university staff , and be fail student . food and housing cost be also spiral . I can not look back on the past 13 year without the word " failure " come to mind . this country deserve well — Putney , Roehampton , Wandsworth town and Southfields deserve well . Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish you and all member present a restful and joyful summer . if you get the chance , do come and visit gorgeous Putney . it be a fantastic place to come in the summer , and I be so proud to be its MP . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Employment Relations ( Flexible Working ) Act 2023 Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 Child Support ( Enforcement ) Act 2023 Social Housing ( Regulation ) Act 2023 Illegal Migration Act 2023 Electronic Trade Documents Act 2023 Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 . Sir David Amess Summer Adjournment Debate resume I begin by apologise to the House : as I have discuss with Madam Deputy Speaker and the Minister , I can not remain until 5 o ' clock . as a result of today ' s train strike , it will take I long to get to the airport and then back to Scotland . I appreciate their understanding of that . I will also begin by reflect on our late , great colleague whom this debate be name after . I be with Sir David Amess on a foreign trip less than 48 hour before he be murder , and in many of the discussion that we have throughout the day and in the evening — during which he lead the delegation with great skill , as he always do — he mention how much he enjoy this Adjournment debate , raise issue on behalf of his constituent . we can see from his contribution over the year just how passionate he be about this place , this debate Chamber and the issue he be able to highlight . it be a fitting memory of Sir David that we hold this debate at the end of each term . the first issue I would like to raise be a national issue , and then I want to go on to more local issue in my constituency of Moray . the national issue be the news that have break in Scotland today about viaplay withdraw from the UK , as reference by the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) . that news have be meet with a lot of concern . understandably , people will be worried about their job , and they be in our thought at the moment — I should of course declare an interest as a football referee with the Scottish Football Association , include in the Scottish league cup this weekend , which be sponsor and broadcast by Viaplay . there be also concern about the future of viaplay ' s coverage in Scotland — its coverage of the Scottish league cup and , of course , our national game . member who have already raise this issue have be right to highlight that the performance of Steve Clarke and his team in recent month have be something that all of we scottish football fan have welcome and celebrate . we be look forward to the qualification campaign continue after the incredible result that we have already see . although the news about Viaplay be concern , I also think it be an opportunity because , like other member across the House , I be concerned that we can not watch our national team — the scottish man ' s team — on free - to - view tv . despite the contract have recently be agree between Viaplay , UEFA and the scottish FA , there be an opportunity to review the model of deliver the national man ' s football game on terrestrial tv . I hope that the BBC , STV and Channel 4 look again at the offer they can make in that regard , as get those game on free - to - air tv would be welcome by our fan across the country . let I turn to some local matter . first , I want to discuss some health - relate issue . I understand that health be fully devolve to the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish Government , but I be in a fortunate position in that I sit in both our Parliaments , and give that I have raise both these health issue in the Scottish Parliament , I would like to reiterate they here in the UK Parliament . the first be about access to GP surgery . there have be a significant campaign in the village of Burghead and Hopeman to retain the surgery in those two coastal community , as they be vital facility for the people live there . the Save our Surgeries campaign have do outstanding work to raise the issue — not just locally , but on national news too . there have be a strong outpouring of support for that campaign , with thousand sign the petition to maintain at least one of the surgery , but the response from NHS Grampian and Health & Social Care Moray have be appalling and disgraceful , and disrespectful to the people campaign for the surgery ' continuation . the chief executive of NHS Grampian recently write to I after I raise concern with she . she tell I that part of the consultation do not include the basic question of whether the surgery could remain open . when I highlight that in the press , the board tell I that it have miss out a word in the letter to I , which should have state that the question be not a " main " part of the consultation . this have lead many people to believe that there be never a genuine consultation to keep the surgery in Burghead and Hopeman open and that it have be agree from the very beginning that they would close . however , NHS Grampian do not count on the outstanding support locally for a facility in either — but hopefully both — Burghead or Hopeman . I will continue to support the campaign in any way I can . the other health issue I want to raise be the future of consultant - lead maternity service at Dr Gray ' s . it be come up to five year since our community be tell that there would be a temporary downgrade of that facility for one year . in that five - year period , my wife and I have welcome two beautiful boy into the world , four - year - old Alistair and two - year - old James . Alistair be fortunately able to be bear at Dr Gray ' s , but due to complication when my wife Krystle go into labour , James have to be bear in Aberdeen follow a blue - light journey in the back of an ambulance from Elgin . sadly , our story and experience be share by far too many Moray mum and family . we have be promise time and again that the facility will be bring back , yet we be now five year on from the original decision to downgrade it temporarily for 12 month . I welcome the fact that the new Public Health Minister have agree to meet I , local campaigner keep MUM and other in Moray during the summer recess to discuss this issue and to come up and see the importance of get that full consultant - lead facility open again at Dr Gray ' s . the situation have be go on for far too long , and I will continue to use opportunity such as this debate and other to highlight the importance of the full restoration of the service , so that we can ensure that the outstanding staff at Dr Gray ' s can continue to provide that high level of care as locally as they would like . the other issue I want to raise be that of infrastructure . we have hear from other contributor about infrastructure project , and one that I would like to focus on be the dualling of the a9 , which be a critical route in Scotland that go from the central belt through Perthshire and up to the highland . many of my constituent use the a9 daily or weekly to get to and from the north of Scotland . back in 2007 , the SNP promise to fully dual the a9 , but that promise have not be deliver . indeed , this week the Inverness Courier host a summit on the dualling of the a9 that be attend by the SNP Scottish Transport Minister . it be welcome that she travel to Inverness to hear the concern of local resident and campaigner , but many be leave unhappy with the response they hear . among the comment be those of Laura Hansler , who say she do not believe that the a9 will be dualle in her lifetime . she have be campaign because she see daily how dangerous the road be but , give the delay we have see under the SNP Scottish Government , she do not think the road will be fully dualle in her lifetime , despite the promise that have be make . we also hear from Bill Lobban , the convenor of Highland Council and an independent councillor , who feel that there be no answer from the meeting . crucially , we hear from Fergus Ewing , an SNP MSP and a former Cabinet Secretary , who say that he feel it be to his shame that there have not be enough progress on dualle the route in the time his party have be in government , and that the Minister have fail to answer the three main point and concern that come out of the summit . it be of real concern that although there have at least be more dialogue , there be no further action on dualle the route . we be tell that when the a9 be fully dualle , the A96 between Inverness and Aberdeen , which go through my Moray constituency , would be fully dualle as well . we be no far on and , indeed , the future of the A96 dualling be now in far more doubt because the SNP bring into government the Scottish Greens , who be anti - car and anti - road building . that vital infrastructure upgrade be now under serious threat because of the Greens in government try to stop critical network be bring up to the level expect . not only do my constituent want it , but business in Moray say that it be crucial for their future as well . I want to stick to the time limit that have be impose , because so many member want to raise so many issue , but this have be a great opportunity to raise in Parliament just some of the crucial issue that I have be work on as MP for Moray and will continue to work on in the summer recess . like other , Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish you and all member and staff all the good for the summer recess . I wish to speak about a number of constituency issue . first , I recently have the privilege of opening , on behalf of the company Brit european in Middlewich in my constituency , its new Vita Nova centre . Brit European start life in my constituency just under 100 year ago , with one horse - draw milk tanker take milk from local farm to dairy . today , it be a lead transport logistic company with a fleet of hundred of vehicle , provide transport solution across the UK and into Europe , and have its own driver academy . I be so impressed with the innovative approach by Brit European — lead by CEO Graham Lackey , who be support by group sale director Rob McNinch , both of whom have travel here to listen to this debate from the Gallery — that I want to take this opportunity to commend the company for the development of its new site . it have focus on a carbon - neutral build , work off grid and ensure that the whole site be environmentally efficient . let I give some more detail . the new centre have repurpose an exist steel - frame building from elsewhere for the company ' s modular building , while the driver welfare facility , workshop , it facility and part store be all make from repurposed shipping container . the entire site of 5 . 5 acre be build on a redesign concrete slab that be 33 % thin than normal concrete foundation and have hugely reduce the carbon footprint for the whole build . ground stabilisation technique be use in construction to avoid dig into the ground , thereby avoid the need to remove soil , dump it off site and replace it with quarried material . this alone save thousand of transport truckload of material . focus on off grid , the Vita Nova site have a full solar array and battery power storage system , and innovative wind tower be plan that be quieter and less obtrusive than traditional large windmill turbine . remarkably , they have be 3d - print use recycled plastic on site , so again avoid transport , and with no concrete foundation , they can easily be move . they be the first of their kind in England . Colloquially call " moo poo " , methane capture from dairy farm ’ slurry pit be be use to charge Brit european ' s vehicle . this be 84 time well than release a kilogram of methane into the atmosphere , and be another world first . the rainwater harvesting system provide 85 % of the site ' s total water need and be use for flush toilet and vehicle washing , and none of the water that fall within the site can run off to the surround environment without be clean via filter tank . in a final stage of off - grid development , Brit European be develop software and a switch system to co - ordinate all power generation , so that at any point in time it be use the most environmentally beneficial energy source available . in other word , it link the solar , wind , moo poo and battery system together and utilise the energy they produce before go to grid . the whole build be on a brownfield area , so the company work with environmental expert to come up with a planting scheme to restore the site to its pre - industrial state . it be believe the site be first industrialise in the late 1800 . work include carefully select tree and shrub , bat and bird box , and measure to encourage animal such as hedgehog . even more admirable be Brit european ' s generous offer through the Road Haulage Association to pass on this innovation to other transport or logistic business across the country . this exemplary innovation have not be easy , but when Graham Lackey be ask why he have do this , he reply , " to reach sustainability as a business be simply the right thing to do , for my child and their future . " it give I great pleasure to commend Brit European ' s innovative work today . I be very proud to have such a forward - look company in my constituency . elsewhere in my constituency be the steep incline of Mow Cop . will the Government consider improve the guidance for local authority on winter gritting ? on Mow Cop , there be several rural road that be not grit in the winter and can therefore be impassable for vehicle in the winter month , lead to more traffic on the remain open road , prevent safe access by emergency service , stop social care worker visit elderly member of the rural population and child go to and from school on local authority transport , and cut off those who live in our rural settlement . as Councillor Patrick Redstone , who have long be campaign for well gritting on Mow Cop , say , these road be not mere " rat run " ; they be , as one of my constituent call they , artery of the rural community . will the Government review the current guidance for local authority on winter gritting , with a view to strengthen local council obligation ? another company in my constituency be SpanSet Ltd , which have be manufacture there for over 50 year . this progressive international company want to invest in solar energy generation at its factory site , but its plan have be halve by the local electricity network ' s operator restriction . the issue relate to the capacity of network infrastructure to receive back any excess energy generate . SpanSet be ask why , at a time when renewable energy generation and reduce energy import be so important , the system disincentivise local network operator support company that want to invest in green energy and even force they to reduce or veto scheme . as this be a technical question , I ask the Minister respond to today ' s debate to support my request for a meeting between SpanSet and someone from the Department for Business and Trade to discuss the matter far . next , I join constituent in object to the propose closure of Congleton station ' s ticket office . as one constituent write : " the service provide for all customer , especially the disabled , be essential for the safety of all " . another say : " this be unacceptable as the ticket office be always busy — at time the queue can be outside the door — and the staff be very helpful . " last but by no mean least , I have campaign in this House for many year on family hub , and I be delighted when the Government provide money for they across the country . I commend New Life church in Congleton for the holistic support it offer individual and family , young and old — include a food bank , run parenting course , provide job and benefit support , offer mental health support and much more . in the light of these service , New Life church should be recognise as a family hub , or at the very least as a spoke of a family hub . some time ago , I take representative from Cheshire East Council to New Life , and no one could fail to be impress by the work that be go on with family . since then , discussion have be ongoing for some time between Cheshire East Council officer and other for New Life to be formally recognise as at least a family hub speak . may I use this debate to urge Cheshire East Council to make a decision , award funding to New Life and grant it speak status ? before I close , may I just put on record my deep thank to my parliamentary assistant Chloe Black ? she have work for I for many year and provide exemplary service , and I wish she all the good as she embark on her new career as a geography teacher . as we all do today , I rise with Sir David Amess in my heart and in my thought . he be a great friend — a cheeky friend — and mentor to so many of we . I be very fortunate to represent the amazing community of Rutland and Melton , the Vale and Harborough village , which cover 187 village , three town and 431 square mile . within my constituency , we have the Hallaton hoard of roman gold and the Stilton pork pie . I promise all member that much would be hear of that during my time in Parliament , and I would say that I have live up to that commitment . we also have Burrough on the Hill , where there be a great roman fort . we have the Rutland sea dragon , otherwise know as the ichthyosaur . I put on record that it be not a dinosaur , but a marine animal of some sort . we also have the Belvoir elderflower cordial , the Rutland mosaic , which have change our understanding of roman history , and the beautiful Belvoir castle , where " the Crown " be film . this be an incredible group of community to represent , and I be so pleased to be here and to speak about some of the campaign on which I have be work on their behalf . I be also delighted to see the Minister , the Vice - Chamberlain of his Majesty ' s household , on the Front Bench for this debate , and look forward to hear her voice fill the Chamber once again . early this year — and I know that the world and the medium be very keen to talk about this — we be successful in our bid to secure £ 23 million from the levelling - up fund for the community of Rutland and Melton . many ask , " why do Rutland and Melton deserve those fund ? " the answer be that we have two of the bad place in the country for social mobility . that mean that when people have difficult life , it be far more difficult for they to create the future that they and their family want — that most conservative of value — with a determination to get well education and well opportunity . I be therefore incredibly excited that we be move forward with this levelling - up funding . the priority now be make sure that we can get everything in place to meet the deadline we have set . as a result , we will build the Borough market of the midland in Melton Mowbray , as well as an entire new tourism offer within Rutland . we will build a medical hub , which will design the technology of the future to support our love one to live for long . that include inform people when their elderly love one be dehydrate and need to be give tablet to swallow , or if they have have a heart attack or fall down the stair . that will attract medical talent to Rutland and give we first access to those technology . we will finally build an old people ' s medical technology hub in the UK . in the long term , we need more beyond this immediate cash injection . I be talk about fair funding . I have touch on the need to insert social mobility , a core conservative value , into the way we fund local government . I know it be unlikely that the funding formula will get the overhaul this country need , but I meet the Chancellor yesterday and be work to see if we can get social mobility include alongside deprivation in the funding formula . that would well recognise that sometimes , in the most deprived area in our country , people still have access to a jobcentre or to employment or training opportunity within a 10 - minute walk . when you see rural poverty , Mr Deputy Speaker , it stay with you and you do not forget it , because those individual may not have access to bus or petrol for their car , nor the ability to go to shop or medical care or anything else . that be why I be fight to put social mobility into our funding formula . on the street of Rutland and Melton , the most common issue raise with I be healthcare . I be therefore delighted that the £ 1 . 5 million refurbishment of Rutland Memorial Hospital be complete in March — it be look wonderful — and that the £ 450 million for Leicester hospital be go ahead , but there be more to be do . I have secure agreement for the first MRI scanner ever to be position in Rutland , and I be now work to get the final funding put in place by the Government , so I be grateful to they . as part of that , I be work to get Medbourne gp practice reopen . we need it up and run and in that community speak — it be important . a wide concern that I have about healthcare in our area be that I have recently identify that access to community paediatrician be far below what it should be . in Melton , the maximum wait be 102 week , and in Rutland it be 106 week for a child to see a paediatrician to get support . that be not good enough , and I will be work to see what we can do . on national healthcare , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) for meet my constituent Phil Newby , who go to the High Court for the right to end his own life because of the appalling condition in which he have to live . I be grateful to my hon . friend for ensure that private meeting , so that Phil could give evidence before he potentially lose the ability to speak . I be also delighted that work with the hon . member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) , who have become a good friend across the aisle , we have secure a right to protect the right of love one to have visitor when they be in hospital , follow my campaign during the pandemic to make sure that partner be never lock out again . I be delighted that we have secure that national change . as a rural constituency , travel continue to be a major issue in Rutland and Melton , but after 40 year — some say 50 or 60 year — I have finally deliver the Melton Mowbray distributor road . the bypass be in the ground , the spade be there and it be be build . we be meet deadline after deadline . People say it would never happen , but it be happen and people can see it all around they . it be such good news . I be still work to secure more progress on the A1 . it have one of the bad accident record in the UK . I have secure six substantial safety upgrade to the A1 , all of which be now complete . I , too , suffer the pain of drive up and down as it be close over the past few month , but we get the security and safety upgrade that we need . I have also notice a big uptick in litter and fly - tipping along the A1 , which be deeply disappointing . I be pleased that we have secure the increase in fly - tip fine that many of we have be fight for . I hope those fine start to be use . turn to Bottesford in the north of my constituency , we have make some progress at the A52 junction . I know it be not enough , but we will be get vehicle - activate speed sign early next year , and that be progress . I bring National Highways to Bottesford . it meet my constituent , and I be disappointed that it be still not willing to do the full junction renovation that we need , but we be make progress . on education , it have be a big year for Rutland . we have secure regeneration funding for 11 school across my constituency and , follow the big increase in funding for education announce the other day by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , we will now see £ 75 million put into education across Rutland and Melton , and that be absolutely right . I pay tribute to the staff and , in particular , the headteacher , Carl , at Casterton College . they recently see an appalling incident where , follow storm , much of the building collapse . we have fortunately already secure it a place in the school rebuilding programme , and follow that incident we have a timeline with delivery in 2025 , which be fantastic news . I be pleased to host my first annual parish and town council summit over the past year . they be a chance to hear from local community and local people who know what local people want . as part of that , we have be fight for fund from the community ownership fund . I be delighted that four out of four application be successful in Rutland and Melton : the Black Horse at Grimston , the Barrowden village hall , the Bell at Frisby , which be do amazingly , and the hub at Thurnby , where we break ground a few month ago . it be fantastic to see local community get the investment they need to build community space . while I be on community , I will mention the amazing charity for Rutland . it raise fund every year to fund specialist adviser for our citizen advice bureau . Elizabeth Mills and Trish Ruddle be sweetheart of Rutland and absolute hero . People book ticket over a year in advance for the For Rutland charity clothe sale , travel from as far as Edinburgh and Cornwall to take part , so I thank they for all they do . I will move quickly through my final point . I be delighted that in the Oakham Heights estate , we have finally manage to get resident on the board , and there will be a full handover of the estate to resident . we fight to make sure that local people have a say . I continue my campaign against the Mallard Pass solar plant in my constituency , and the Government know that I will be table two new clause to the Energy Bill : the first be to rip out Uyghur slave labour solar panel , and the second be to ensure that we do not build on the good and most versatile land of grade 3a and above , and that 3b land continue to be see as such . I turn to casework and the silent victory mp have that few people ever hear about . my team and I have support almost 6 , 000 resident since last September , receive a staggering 13 , 000 email , and I be delighted that we continue to have win for people who come to we in their dark day , when every other door have be close in their face . I pay tribute in particular to my extraordinary senior caseworker , Lisa , who will fight and fight until she get people the outcome they deserve and make their voice hear , and to Emma , who support she and run an incredible matching service for ukrainian refugee last year , through which we help over 400 family find a home here in the UK . I reiterate my thank to the entire House for its support in elect I as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . it have be an enormous privilege and joy . it be so important to have the opportunity to bring forward important piece of work , such as our recent report on hostage taking . we will soon publish report on the Wagner network and our Indo - Pacific inquiry . I thank the Clerks of the Committee , Chris , Medha , Johnny , Sasha , Ken , Ashlee , Daniela , Lucy , Hannah , Clare , Toni and those I may have forget , as well as David Clark in the Speaker ' s Office , who have be a steadfast support to I . I also pay tribute to Alison and Ted and all the security team of the House , who be often forget but who have be incredibly helpful to I over the last year in the face of significant challenge . I thank they for all they do to keep the House safe , as well as Mr Speaker and his family . I will wrap up by say an enormous thank you to my team . without they , I would be lose and would not have the joy that we sometimes forget to find in this role . these be people who stand by and truly believe in the community we fight for and community around the world such as those in the Balkans , Ukraine and beyond . I thank Lisa , Emma , Alex , Amelia and Harry , and I wish everyone a wonderful summer recess . I be honour to speak in the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate , which the House kindly agree some time ago to name in memory of our great friend . we still miss he , and I must confess that I do in particular — especially that famous cheeky Amess grin . I reassure the House that I be not go to try to emulate he and raise 20 different topic in half as many minute . nevertheless , there be five particular area that I would like to touch on before the House adjourn for the summer . first , as those who be here at Education question on Monday may recall , I have launch a campaign for a new special need school in south Essex . we already have a number of very good special need school in Essex , but they be now — almost without exception — heavily over - subscribed , and we simply do not have enough special need place , particularly in the south of the county , to deal with ever increase demand . as a result , many parent end up have to go through long appeal process , desperately try to get their child into an appropriate school . for those who be unsuccessful , their child be shoehorn into mainstream education , which sometimes lead to behavioural problem and even to mainstream school themselves get bad Ofsted report as a result . we need to cut through this gordian knot and expand capacity . I be therefore talk to the cabinet member for education and lifelong learning in Essex County Council , Councillor Tony Ball , as well as Ministers at the Department for Education and a couple of local multi - academy trust , to see whether we can find a suitable option to open a new school . I hope to have more to say about that by the time the House return in the autumn , but for the moment I pledge to do my good on this . in that , I hope I will have the support of my constituent , especially parent with special need child . secondly , we have have real problem at King Edmund School in Ashingdon , which suffer a triple whammy . first , it be close like many other school during covid , and secondly , it have to have a large block demolish because of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , or RAAC . the third whammy come when they demolish the building and find that it contain a large quantity of asbestos , which no one realise be there . the school have to be completely close while the area be thoroughly decontaminate . I be glad to report to the House that the new block be now in the early stage of rise phoenix - like from the ashe . I thank the permanent secretary at the Department for Education , who at a recent meeting of the Public Accounts Committee publicly apologise to I and my constituent who be adversely affect by this difficult situation . I be assure by the headteacher , Mr Jonathan Osborn , that the apology have go down very well with staff , parent and pupil alike , so I want to register my thank this afternoon on their behalf . on a related matter , Hockley Primary School have also unfortunately be discover to be suffer from RAAC . have recently check with the Academies Enterprise Trust , which run the school , it be in the midst of a detailed engineering survey , assist by the Department , to assess the extent of the problem . in the meantime , other AET school in the Hockley area , include Plumberow and Greensward , have rally round to provide alternative place for Hockley schoolchildren . we await the result of the engineering survey with great interest , but I be do everything I can in the meantime to facilitate the provision at least of temporary classroom for the autumn term on the Hockley Primary School site itself . if that can not be achieve — I very much hope it can — I will work with AET to ensure that there be some kind of plan b , perhaps continue to use some of the nearby school . thirdly , we have a very unfortunate situation in Wickford , whereby both the town ' s main supermarket be close pende redevelopment , and the old market in Wickford High Street have have to close and be look for an alternative venue . many other member wish to speak today , so to cut a very long story short , my Wickford constituent have be leave face something of a perfect storm regard their ability to shop locally . I be do everything I can to persuade Basildon Council to find a new site , even a temporary one , to allow Wickford market to reopen , and also to persuade Aldi , which be in the process of rebuild and expand its supermarket in Wickford , to keep to its ambitious timetable and make sure that the store be open before Christmas this year . my Wickford constituent be also frustrate by the fact that Abellio Greater Anglia knock down half their train station without have a proper plan to rebuild it . I have raise this issue with Abellio on multiple occasion , and I now understand it be close to submit a planning application for a new station design to Basildon Council this summer , which would hopefully allow construction to begin sometime next year . it be important that Abellio keep to that timetable , and I intend to remain very much on its case until it do so . that lead I on to the related matter of ticket office , not just in Wickford , but at all the other station in my constituency . I fully intend to respond to the consultation about proposal to close ticket office prior to the deadline next week , but suffice it to say at this juncture that I be oppose to the proposal , which be a mistake . the saving that might be generate from do so be more than outweigh by the potential inconvenience for traveller , particularly those who be visually impair or otherwise disabled . the other Monday morning when I be wait on the platform at Rayleigh station , I even see that — lo and behold — the ticket machine be not work . in short , I believe the game be not worth the candle . I very much hope that minister — include the rail Minister , who be a decent chap and to whom I speak personally about this recently — and the train operator might yet be persuade to reconsider . fourthly , I want to raise some issue relate to shelter housing accommodation in my constituency . some in the House with good memory might remember my previously refer to a sheltered housing scheme know as Sangster Court — also know as " Gangster Court " — in Rayleigh , run by Notting Hill Genesis . such have be my frustration with NHG over the year that , in the last Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate , on 21 July last year , I say in the House : " I can only express the hope that notte Hill Genesis will soon be overtake by a large and more professional housing association that will do a much well job for my constituent . " — [ Official Report , 21 July 2022 ; Vol . 718 , c . 1178 . ] I be therefore delighted to receive a letter only yesterday from Mr Matthew Cornwall - Jones , the group director of asset and sustainability for NHG , confirm that it now intend to sell on the sheltered accommodation it currently own in Essex , include in my Rayleigh and Wickford constituency . I be not sure whether that will be meet with joyous rejoicing in Sangster Court , but it be certainly meet with approval in my office yesterday . I very much hope we will be able to find another major social housing provider , such as perhaps Sanctuary , which have have its own issue but be now gradually improve , to take over NHG ' s property in Essex and run they more successfully . in addition , I have have some dreadful experience with a property management company call FirstPort , which manage a number of privately run sheltered housing facility in my constituency . ironically , as part of its branding , it claim to " prioritise customer service " — well , you could have fool I ! for instance , at King Georges Court in Rayleigh it take FirstPort more than seven month to fix a lift . partly as a result , some very ill elderly resident have to be carry down flight of step by ambulance paramedic , who be do their good , because the lift be not work . I be glad to report to the House that the lift be now finally function again , but FirstPort could hardly have make a bad job of it if it have try . the concept of any sense of urgency seem totally alien to it . furthermore , FirstPort run another facility call Oak Lodge in Hockley , which I visit recently at the invitation of the resident , only to see a number of maintenance defect , include a back fence that be effectively fall down and have not be repair despite multiple complaint by the resident . incidentally , they be also upset by increase in their bill , especially their energy bill , which they regard as completely disproportionate . FirstPort be particularly poor at reply to correspondence , include from member of Parliament . I put on record today that I very much hope it will follow Notting Hill Genesis ' s example and hand its home over to someone more competent to run they . I do not know what the non - executive director of FirstPort do all day , but hold the company ' s executive director properly to account do not exactly seem to be their top priority . fifthly , everyone who know Sir David be well aware that he be a great animal lover , so it be partly in his memory that I be support the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation ' s " the Crate Escape " campaign to phase out the use of cruel farrow crate for sow and their piglet — and the soon the well . Sir David be very keen on this issue , and I hope and believe that we will get there in the end . lastly , Mr Deputy Speaker , I take this opportunity to thank you , all our colleague , all the staff of the House , my excellent Westminster team , Adele , Oliver , Felix and Mellissa , and all my supporter in my constituency . I hope they all have a relax summer recess and that we can all reassemble safely in the autumn . I thank the House . this be the second time I have speak in this debate . the first time be two year ago , and I follow David Amess — I can even remember where he be sit in the Chamber at the time . I have refresh my memory on what I say in that debate . I raise for the first time the issue of improved public transport link north from Newbury up to Oxford , and specifically the need for a new bus route that would link Newbury to the town and the science park up what we call the " knowledge highway " of the A34 . I be delighted that two year later , after countless survey , leaflet , email to constituent , meeting with Ministers , and meeting with Oxfordshire County Council , West Berkshire Council and various bus company , the new X34 bus route will open on Monday . I want to say how grateful I be to the Government for the £ 2 . 6 million bus service improvement plan funding that be give to West Berkshire Council in recognition of the fact that rural area be often not well connected , and I also want to put on record my thank to Oxfordshire County Council , West Berkshire Council and Thames Travel for take the rare and unusual step of create a new bus route that cross two county . since it be perfectly obvious that this debate actually work , it seem as good a time as any for I to raise my next infrastructure campaign , which be for a bridge over the level crossing , or at least some part of the adjacent railway line , in Thatcham . that may sound like a small issue , but what be in fact a significant signal problem cause resident of that town extensive delay at peak time every single day . many of my constituent say that they wait between 45 minute and an hour per journey when travel to and from work . I dread to think how many hour be lose to they each day . I have already meet the Transport Secretary to discuss the problem , and I be grateful for his support so far — although I have not ask he for any money yet and I will visit the site and meet the signal team tomorrow . my constituency predecessor , now Lord Benyon , make some initial effort , and have tell I that , if nothing else , he can explain to I where the plan to build a bridge go wrong in the past . however , I think that there be sensible , practical solution to the infrastructure blockage problem , and I know that the magic of this debate mean that the bridge will be build very soon . I want to raise , briefly , two further issue . another campaign that I have be run for about two year involve the waiting time face by family seek a diagnosis of either autism spectrum disorder or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder from the West Berkshire child and adolescent mental health service . when I become the local MP , the waiting time be frequently as long as three year , and I hear heartbreake story about child who be unable to access the curriculum , or be experience serious social difficulty and in some instance be not even at school . I think that every family in my constituency who be affect by that be well aware that I have be campaign to bring wait time down to a 12 - month maximum . we have have a great deal of support from the government : in 2021 , West Berkshire CAMHS receive an additional £ 1 . 6 million to reduce waiting time and , as a result , it be able , over time , to recruit 27 more healthcare professional . it set itself a firm target of see all child seek an autism diagnosis within two year by March this year . it be currently 96 % of the way towards meet that : only a handful of case be take long than that . however , in the most recent phone call I receive from the service , I be tell that the 12 - month target be still a challenge because of an 84 % increase in the number of child be refer for autism diagnosis . at this stage , it be not clear to the service or to I why that be the case , but it will obviously require more attention . the present approach be to triage the child with the high need so that they do not wait any long than a year , but I be determined to drive down overall waiting time to a year for all those family . I will continue my campaign to achieve that and will seek assistance from Ministers as to how it can be do . finally , I want to say something about water quality . my area be cover by Thames Water , which have , I have to say , be work with I constructively since the implementation of the Environment Act 2021 . three chalk stream run through my constituency , and Thames Water pledge that this summer it would produce a waste - water management plan set out how it would achieve an 80 % reduction in the use of storm overflow into the chalk stream by 2030 . that be a firm commitment . while I be keen to work with the water company , I also write to Ofwat on 25 May ask whether it would consider tie bonus payment and shareholder dividend to environmental performance . I do not mean that in a discretionary sense . I suggest that , if any water company be fine for illegal discharge , it should be mandate that it do not pay bonus to senior manager or dividend to shareholder and that , give that banker lose their bonus if they break the law , so should water company executive . I receive an encouraging response from Ofwat , but it be not really a matter of dispute that Thames Water be in a state of flux , with the resignation of its chief executive officer , and we do not know what its future hold . I put it on the record that when Parliament return I hope that we will have much great clarity on the future of Thames Water , and that we can continue to work constructively , both through what I hope will be the publication of its wastewater management plan and through tough sanction implement by Ofwat to ensure that we get there . I join colleague in pay tribute to our late friend Sir David Amess . I be lucky enough to be put by the accommodation Whip on the same corridor as Sir David when I first arrive here as an MP . I will never forget the conversation that we use to have while wait for the lift in 1 Parliament Street , which never work . he be always interested in colleague and what they be do . he take a genuine interest in parliamentarian and this House . we really miss he and remember he in these time . on a happy note , I extend my good wish to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and all the staff in the Houses of Parliament in advance of the summer recess , and wish they a very restful recess . I be tell by Hansard that today will be my 170th mention of Carshalton and Wallington , so no prize for guess the topic of my speech today . I will highlight a few thing that my constituent be face , which I hope that the Minister , who I be delighted be in her place , will take away to the relevant Government Departments to pursue over the summer . I do not think that it will come as any surprise that the no . 1 issue that I get from resident on the doorstep and in my postbag — I be sure it be the same for every Member of Parliament at the moment — be concern about cost of living pressure , such as meet the mortgage , rent payment , energy bill and other bill . I warmly welcome not only all the initiative that the Government have take , include the energy bill relief scheme , the household support fund , and the uprating of benefit and pension in line with inflation , but the way the Government have try to promote those scheme . I know so many people who have benefit from go on the help for Households website . they have find support that they do not know be out there . I have be try to work alongside local stakeholder to ensure that people be adequately signpost to the support available . together with the Department for Work and Pensions and the local jobcentre , we have set up monthly drop - in cost of live advice session in Roundshaw and St Helier , and we be look to expand that to other area of Carshalton and Wallington , particularly area of deprivation where the need for such support be acute . those session have be so well receive . every month , more and more people come to those drop - in event . I hope that the Government can encourage the DWP to continue to do that in other constituency , because it have work particularly well in mine . I move on to some news that I be sad to receive yesterday : the Environment Agency be about to issue an intention to approve the increase in the amount of waste that the incinerator in Beddington can burn . the incinerator be approve — champion , in fact — by the Liberal Democrats . I be not surprised that once again none of they could be bother to turn up today . the Lib Dem - run council have again let down resident of Carshalton and Wallington regard this monstrosity of an incinerator , which be force on resident against their will . we be tell at the time , " this will be it . no need to worry — of course it ' s not go to burn more and more waste . " this extra capacity be not need . it can burn the household waste from the four borough that it receive waste from at the moment absolutely fine without need to increase capacity . I would like the Government to again look at the permit variation process for incinerator . if the permit amount of incineration in this country be build , we would have more than double the Government ' s own estimate need for incineration . it be not conducive to our net zero ambition . we need to look at why we have massive overcapacity in the planning system for incineration . I hope that the Government will continue to look at that in detail . next , I come to what be no doubt the issue of the hour in London , and in the Uxbridge and South Ruislip by - election : ULEZ . we inner and outer London mps bang on about ULEZ , but it be important to continue raise the issue . I can not overstate the damage that ULEZ will do to business , to the poor and to charity in my constituency , and across the whole of Greater London and outside it . I be think particularly of those constituency in which people do not have the right to vote to get rid of the man who be impose ULEZ on we : the Mayor of London . he have the audacity to say that people should get out of their car and on to public transport , yet in my constituency he have scrap the Go Sutton bus and the Tramlink extension . he have announce the new superloop — in my constituency , that be just a reannouncement of a bus route that have be there for over a decade . he have announce no new service whatsoever . there be nothing come to help people make that transition to public transport ; there be absolutely no support in place . in central London , he be cut the historic no . 11 bus route , and the scrappage scheme have prove an absolute flop . I welcome the fact that the Government have a very strong line on ULEZ , but we should continue to make it absolutely clear that it should not go ahead . I look forward to hear the judgment of the judicial review , hopefully by the end of the month . in the time leave to I , I would quickly like to touch on education , an area of particular concern for my constituent . we have some of the good school in the country ; they feature in the top 10 school for grade result every single year , and the teacher in my constituency do an absolutely fabulous job , day in , day out . I be absolutely thrilled that the Government have recognise that , and award a record funding increase of nearly £ 110 million to school in Carshalton and Wallington . that be incredibly welcome . in order to give all our young people the good start in life , could I encourage the Government to continue look into the issue of childcare ? the reform that have be make be absolutely welcome , but there be certainly more to do . we on the Women and Equalities Committee can tell the Government that childcare issue adversely affect woman in particular , as it be almost always woman who bear the brunt of they . we hope that the Government will look to go far in their childcare reform , but I welcome the effort make so far . I be delighted that my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) mention special educational need in her speech . I join she in urge the Government to go far and fast with their ambition to bring down waiting time for an autism spectrum disorder diagnosis , because the wait time be completely out of control . in my constituency , many family who can not afford to are be force to go private to get a diagnosis . of course , under the Children and Families Act 2014 , a diagnosis be supposedly not need to get an education , health and care plan , but almost entirely , child be be refuse ehcp unless they have one . we be up against a brick wall , to be honest , when it come to deal with child and adolescent mental health service in my constituency . I be sure that it be the same across the country . I know that the Government , and in particular the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , be grasp the issue with both hand , and be very keen to get it sort . I welcome that , and I wish the Under - Secretary every success , but I hope that the Government can come back to we in the autumn with a more flesh - out action plan for get wait time down , and allow child to fulfil their potential . I want to touch on police , as I be sure many colleague will . historically , my quiet corner of south London have be know as one of the safe borough of London . the London Boroughs of Sutton and of Richmond upon Thames be often in competition with each other to be the safe London borough to live in . however , post pandemic , there seem to have be a concern increase in what some might view as low - level crime , but it be truly worrying to the people who experience it . I can not begin to say how many time , as I be scroll on Facebook or Nextdoor in particular , I see Ring doorbell footage of people go up and down residential street at night , try car door and front door — not always with success , but their doing be often link to crime elsewhere in the area . I welcome that the Met have now change its approach and agree to attend every single call - out for burglary , for example . that have result in several thousand additional arrest in London for this crime and that be to be welcome . I hope that the Home Secretary will be able to reiterate our ambition to bring down crime . I be very supportive of the Met ' s action plan for London , but we do need a police and crime commissioner for London who get that and want to tackle that . we do not have that with our current Mayor , so I sincerely hope that Londoners will see fit to get rid of this fail Mayor in a year ' s time . let I finish up on the NHS . as someone who have work in the NHS , who be bear at St Helier Hospital in south London , and whose life be save not once but twice by the staff at St Helier , I thank the government — truly — and say how grateful I be that they have listen to NHS staff and agree that St Helier Hospital not only have to stay , but need that additional investment to improve the hospital , because it be in a dire state of disrepair at the moment . that have now be deliver . on top of that , there be an agreement to deliver a second hospital in Sutton , to protect a & E and maternity in the London Borough of Sutton and also to increase the amount of service that our local NHS provide , include , importantly , introduce cancer surgery . this be as a result of a brand - new partnership with the Royal Marsden Hospital , which we be so lucky to have in Sutton . this mean that cancer patient live in Sutton will no long have to go to Chelsea to get their cancer surgery . this be fantastic news for local patient and I commend the Government for do that . we look forward to see some enable work take place this year , and to get spade in the ground very shortly . finally , I echo the call to thank our staff who put up with so much . they be often on the frontline , deal with all of the abuse and all of the casework that come in . they truly be to be commend for what they do . I thank Andy , Harry , Dan , Erik , Jo , Lynne , Max and Archie , who be my amazing team and who do so much to support I . they be just as dedicate to Carshalton and Wallington , and I really want to wish they all the good for the summer recess as well . thank you very much for your time , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the staff of the House for everything they do for we . I wish everyone a happy summer . I rise to pay tribute to Sir David , who be a good friend and a guide hand to many of we elect in 2019 . as this debate be dedicate to Sir David Amess , who share with I a deep love of animal , I want to put on the record my thank to those thousand of people who vote for my Jack Russell , Clemmie , who secure second place in last year ' s Westminster Dog of the Year competition . now , Clemmie be go all out this year to secure the top dog title in the Sir David Amess public vote award , just as his beloved Vivienne do in 2021 . let I turn now to serious matter . Darlington be at the forefront of our ambitious levelling up agenda and the past year have be hugely exciting for Darlington as we continue to go from strength to strength . through covid and the current cost of live crisis , together with other funding , Darlington have receive around £ 670 million in investment and support from the Government since I be elect in 2019 . we be already see what that investment be deliver , such as the £ 23 . 3 million from the town fund , which be improve our historic yard , Victoria Road and Northgate . work have begin on the £ 139 million redevelopment of Bank Top Station . in that vein , I urge London North Eastern Railway not to close our ticket office in Darlington , which would hugely undermine this investment and make life more difficult for my disabled and elderly constituent . as we approach the bicentenary of the passenger railway in 2025 , Darlington ' s rail heritage quarter be start to take shape , with £ 35 million of investment from Ben Houchen and Darlington Borough Council . I be determined that our celebration of this significant milestone should be commensurate with its importance . the eye of the world will be on Darlington and it be a perfect opportunity to showcase our nation ' s rich rail heritage . I have already meet Ministers and Network Rail to discuss the celebration and I be look forward to meet Sir Peter Hendy to discuss how we can make they a real success . I be delighted that a permanent location at Brunswick Street have be choose for the Darlington economic campus , where more than 80 % of the new job that have come to Darlington be go to local people from the region , allow people to stay local but go far . connectivity in Darlington be not just about the railway , and I continue to press on several important transport issue for my constituent . push for a northern link road between junction 59 on the A1 and Great Burdon on the A66 to alleviate the congestion face by constituent in the north of Darlington be high on my agenda . I be delighted to see the Chamber so full for this debate , because immediately after it I will be present a petition on car parking charge in Darlington . I encourage member to stay for that . we have also face serious issue with bus , and I continue to press Arriva to maintain its current service in Darlington , on which some of the most vulnerable people in my community depend . everyone deserve to feel safe in their community , and I have do much work in this place to ensure that be the case in Darlington . we have secure more than £ 1 million from the safe street fund , which be have a huge impact on make our town centre safe . as a town with a thriving night time economy , that be of great importance . part of that funding be use to open Number Forty , on Skinnergate , which provide a safe space for people on a night out . off - road bike have long be a cause for concern in Darlington , and I have raise the issue many time in the House . I praise Durham constabulary ' s Operation Endurance , which be focus on tackle the scourge of off - road bike . I be pleased to say that it be start to have an appreciable impact , but I will continue to campaign for further step to tackle the problem in Darlington . as part of that we must improve 101 response time — something I be pleased that Rob Potts , the conservative candidate for Durham police and crime commissioner , have commit to . I look forward to campaign with he to help deliver vital improvement . education be our silver bullet to ensure that every child have the good start in life and be able to achieve their full potential . I welcome the Government ' s decision to offer teacher a 6 . 5 % pay rise . the announcement of a new special school for Darlington will be hugely beneficial . the additional provision of 48 place for child with special educational need in Darlington be much need . my reading lobster , Seb , have have a busy year meet many parliamentarian , include the Prime Minister and Mr Speaker himself . the Skerne Park Academy read lobster scheme be hugely admirable , help to inspire a lifelong love of reading in child . Darlington College be now deliver t - level , and I be delighted to be at the opening of the brand - new engineering block , the Ingenium centre , along with the Secretary of State for Education . the centre have be deliver with £ 2 . 96 million of funding that we secure from the town fund . such new opportunity for local people in Darlington will enable they to fully reach their potential and find good , well - pay and secure employment into the future . I have almost complete at least one visit to every school in Darlington — I have visit some of they many time — and I look forward to visit the last two remain on the list in September . in a similar vein , I continue to make progress on my visit to all faith establishment across the town . I have a long connection to the hospice sector — I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — have serve as a trustee for a hospice in Northallerton for more than a decade . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on hospice and end of life care , I have have the platform to raise the concern of this vital sector over the past few month . I have be pleased to bring together all the Tees valley mps on a cross - party basis to stand up for our Tees valley hospice and call on our local integrate care board to properly fund they . I will always continue to push for further support and recognition of these important organisation , such as St Teresa ' s in Darlington , which do so much good work . Monday mark 10 year since we legalise same - sex marriage . we should be incredibly proud of the progress we have make and how far we have come on LGBT equality . I welcome the progress that we have be make towards our ambition to end new HIV transmission by 2030 . roll out opt - out testing to area of high prevalence would be a huge boon in our fight against the virus , and I again call on the Government to make that happen . it would be a win - win — for public health and the public purse . I very much welcome this week ' s publication of the Etherton review and my right hon . friend the Prime Minister ' s apology from the Dispatch Box yesterday . I also call on the Government to bring forward swiftly a trans - inclusive conversion therapy ban , for which we have be wait far too long . we must stamp out this form of abuse . as my hon . friend know , I raise this issue at Prime Minister ' s question only yesterday . I have to admit that , to my great frustration , I be not particularly delighted by the Prime Minister ' s answer . on 19 January on the Floor of this House , at the Dispatch Box , and again in a write ministerial statement , the Secretary of State confirm that pre - legislative scrutiny would be complete by the end of this parliamentary session ; essentially , that mean October or November this year . there be no way that that can now be meet , so I be deeply disappointed that after the Government have miss their own deadline , we have not receive any form of update . do my hon . friend agree that pre - legislative scrutiny would enable this House to come together , and that it be wrong that that scrutiny have not yet take place ? very sadly , what my hon . friend say be correct . I pay tribute to she for her significant leadership on the issue . I have work with she , alongside colleague such as my hon . friend the Members for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) and for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) . many of we have campaign and press for a trans - inclusive ban on conversion therapy , and it be deeply sadden that we have not yet see it . move on , my constituent be still face impossibly long wait for mental health treatment , particularly for child . I have speak in this place many time on the need to bring down waiting time for child and adolescent mental health service . I know that minister be aware of the issue and work hard on it , but I again press they to do all they can to ensure that we leave no child behind . minister be also aware of the ongoing situation with the provision of mental health service in Tees , Esk and wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust , and the recent rapid review . in recent week and month , we have see continue coverage of yet more alarming news about TEWV , particularly the work of the crisis team . I press minister to continue to work with I and other , and to do all they can to improve TEWV service so that my constituent can get the care they need and deserve . every week my team , lead by the amazing Rachael Hughes Booth , handle hundred of piece of casework — in fact , some 31 , 537 since I be elect — and every day there be success , from secure a passport so that a family can take a long - plan holiday , to get people treatment for rare condition or reimbursement of unpaid benefit . that , for I , be the most important part of this job . Darlington have have a lot to celebrate over the last few year , although our community have , like everyone ' s , face significant challenge . our town be truly on the cusp of something great . it be the honour of a lifetime to represent the people of Darlington in this place , and I will continue to work hard every day to repay the trust they have put in I . finally , I thank staff across the House and all my team for all that they do . I wish everyone a happy recess . may I start by say what a pleasure it be to see the Vice - Chamberlain of his Majesty ' s household on the Front Bench ? she be my Whip , and a very good Whip she be too . I would say that in this House even if she be not a good Whip , because we must keep the Whips onside , but it happen to be true . I will start with a number of thank yous . first , I thank my staff team : Maoliosa Smith , Jamie Carter , James Williams and Louise Brown . all of our staff make we look well than we be ; mine be no different and I be very grateful to they . I also want to thank a number of organisation and individual in the constituency and this place for help with various thing I have do in the past year . I have run quite a number of event and campaign locally and could not have do so without the help of lot of different people . I begin a work experience campaign last year because I find — and I think most member would find this if they check — that work experience have dramatically decline in the post - covid period . with so many people work from home , it have be one of the thing drop , yet it be crucial for people in their school year and later teen to get experience of the workplace , understand how it work , make connection and observe how they should behave . I start the campaign because young people at local school — I visit one almost every week — be tell I that it be very difficult to get work experience . I be really pleased with the response from company such as Rebellion , Hachette and Newton Europe , which essentially say , " you know what , you ' re right , we have drop this and we be go to start do it again . " they have provide really good opportunity for young people locally . Most of those company , along with other organisation such as the NHS , the Army , Elite Youth Sports , and so on , then support an apprenticeship fair that I run this year to try to widen knowledge of , and access to , the apprenticeship that we have locally . we have lot of great apprenticeship opportunity locally and lot of great organisation offer they , so I be very grateful to they . I be also very grateful to Thames Valley Police which have run a couple of crime summit with I locally . they be organise after people have report an increase number of crime incident , particularly antisocial behaviour and also business burglary . the summit be very much for constituent to be able to raise their concern directly with the police and find out what be go on , but I think it be fair to say that the police find from hear from people locally that they could be do well , particularly in the handling of antisocial behaviour , from the focus they give it locally when out and about to how people report it . People be say , " when I want to report an incident it take I 40 minute online to do your form , " and the police be unaware it take that long and have go away to address that . I also want to thank a few colleague on the government Benches : the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation for take part in my science and tech forum which he do with company in Harwell and Milton Park so that they could talk about the challenge they be face ; the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero for take part in my third annual climate summit a couple of week ago ; and the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries for meet farmer just last week . we have lot of great farmer across my constituency , farming dairy , beef and arable and so on , and my right hon . friend come to the constituency and sit there and speak to they . as we know , farmer be a challenging bunch , but our farming Minister give as good as he get and I be very grateful to he for take part in that forum . I want to touch on three thing and then give a special mention to someone . " too many house , not enough infrastructure " : I hear that every single day — since I be first elect , every week when I knock on door and in every email I receive . I know my constituency be not the only one face this challenge , but there be particularly an issue when it come to health service . we all want Grove station reopen , well road and so on , but we have not see an increase in the number of GPs that we need for the people we have in the constituency . a health survey I run early in the year find that 97 % of people feel we do not have enough gps for the number of people we have locally . the great Western Park estate have be wait eight year for its promise surgery , and we have another estate be build right by it , Western Valley . these two estate alone will add 18 , 000 people to the area and there be not a single new doctor . much as the Lib Dem - run council and local health leader all say they be commit to try to solve this problem , we be just not see any progress . I be go to keep bang on about this , because when people feel that an increase population affect their quality of life , it be no wonder that they do not want to see more people be add to their area . they become resistant to house when they might not have be before , and we just have to bang people ' s head together and try to make some progress in this area . my second issue be a more local one , which be the AEA Technology pension campaign . part of AEA be privatised — transfer to a new company — in the 1990 , and the advice that employee receive about their pension at that time prove to be inaccurate and misleading . lot of people transfer their pension without know the increase risk that they would face , and that company go bust . those people end up in the Pension Protection Fund , and have push for 10 year to try to get someone to look at their case . finally , this year , we get the National Audit Office to look at it , and the Public Accounts Committee have also look at it . we now await the Government ' s response , but I be very pleased that people be support our campaign . my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) be one of the people who have be support it , because those people have be try for so long to get their case hear , and now it be finally be hear . my third issue be the Local Electricity ( no . 2 ) Bill . I be the lead sponsor of that Bill , and just under half of member in this place now support it . it would remove the barrier for people who want to be able to generate energy locally through renewable source . at the moment , the start - up cost be too high : it cost in the region of £ 1 million to get go , which be far too much for a village or a local organisation that want to generate energy . we have be work on that Bill collectively — work closely with the Minister in charge , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) — and be just on the cusp of make progress . I can not talk about that progress at the moment , but although the amendment be not accept in the Lords , we have have a very constructive relationship with the Minister in the Commons . we be go to have some good news to announce on that front , which I think will make the Bill ' s supporter very pleased . my last thing , as I say , be just a special mention . I be a patron of a number of local charity that I have talk about in this place before , such as Play2Give and Secret Santa 365 , but I be also patron of a charity call Team Mikayla — it be incredible how many of the charity in my local area be set up by child . this young lady , Mikayla Beames , have a brain tumour at the age of four , and as soon as she be able to , she decide that she want to help all the child who be suffer from cancer . she set up her own charity at a very young age ; she be still a teenager , but for year now she have be support child in the local community who be face cancer diagnosis . she be an incredibly inspirational young lady , and this year be choose as one of the King ' s coronation champion for the whole country . it be an incredibly proud moment for she — a deserved recognition . I just want to take this opportunity to congratulate she . Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish you and everybody who work in Parliament a very restful recess . as always , it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) . as many member have already say , we all aspire to represent and promote our community in the way Sir David Amess be famous for . unlike he , I do not have a town that be big enough for I to campaign to make it into a city ; however , I do have Newton Aycliffe , which have its 75th birthday this year . it be also the 75th birthday of its community newspaper , Newton News , and for Newton Press , it be 60 year — I get that wrong two week ago , so I need to correct that detail . at the start , I would like to commend the hon . member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) for her work on the menopause and give a call - out to a constituent of mine , Kathrine Winter , who work very hard in that space as well . I also offer my support to Rob Potts in his campaign to be the police and crime commissioner for Durham and Darlington in the upcoming election , and I encourage the current pcc to make sure that the community retain its complement of police officer , which be currently under threat because the facility be be challenge by have to share with the fire station . that need to be sort , in the short term and also , critically , in the long term . I do not want to have to wait for Rob to get elect before we get this sort out — it need to be do much early than that . the main theme I want to talk about be opportunity through education . education be a lifelong opportunity . I be elect on a manifesto that recognise and promise to address the need to equalise educational opportunity across our nation . break for summer recess give we an opportunity to look back on what we have do so far , and I will talk about the progress we be make in Sedgefield . it have always be accept that the good way to improve your situation or to get out of poverty be through work , and the well your education , the well the chance to take work opportunity when they arise . it be important that the Government help to deliver the platform and that student be able to make informed choice . in 2019 , 77 % of the school in my constituency be rate good or outstanding ; now , 91 % be . as the APPG for " leave behind " neighbourhood that I chair find , education be critical , even more so in leave - behind neighbourhood , so I thank local trust for their support . I look to the dormant asset scheme to deliver a community wealth fund to help these community . since 2019 , the Government have commit to invest in a number of our local school , include Woodham Academy , Ferryhill Station Primary School , Forest Park School and Greenfield Community College . I be thrill at the work go on at Woodham Academy in Newton Aycliffe . the complete rebuild of this secondary school be expect to be finish in September next year , so we be one academic year away from its reopening . the development be fund through the Department for Education ' s school rebuilding programme , and facility include a swimming pool , a sport hall and a fitness studio . as well as benefit student , it will be open to the community outside school hour . Woodham Academy be do everything it can to ensure that the building be green from the ground up , with heat pump and photovoltaic panel to reduce the carbon impact . it will have electric vehicle charge facility , but also cycle parking , and I think the Government need to continue their effort to encourage our child to walk or cycle to school wherever possible . Ferryhill Station be another local school benefit from the rebuilding programme . build in the 19th century , the school have be enjoy by generation of student , but it be definitely show its age . although Ferryhill Station ' s plan be at an early stage than Woodham ' s , as a former chair of the governor at the primary school , I be confident that they will be just as ambitious and I look forward to see the outcome . from next year , we will also have Forest Park School , a small special educational need school for student age 11 to 16 that be focus on enable they to grow academically and socially . it plan to offer adapt extracurricular activity , so that student who find standard offering difficult to access can still enjoy they . I have be to the school ; the way it be develop be outstanding , and I really look forward to its delivery . development at Greenfield Community College in Aycliffe will also help to deliver improved provision , and I look forward to those concluding . as we all know , though , school be nothing without excellent teacher . I have visit many of the school in Sedgefield and I applaud all the teacher , teaching assistant , kitchen staff and estate staff who deliver for our young people . all of they make fantastic effort throughout the pandemic year , and many have make a huge difference , but our young people have still have the most disrupted education of any generation for many a year . I congratulate all those who persevere and have continue their education . I call out in particular the Ferryhill ambassador for their community engagement , Hardwick Primary in Sedgefield for be nominate as one of the top 10 school worldwide for innovation , and Deaf Hill Primary for its success in the Kellogg ' s Breakfast Club award . when I call out some school but miss out other , I know it be a risk , but from Welbeck in the north to Hurworth in the south , Bishopton in the east and Heighington in the west , and everywhere in the 250 square mile in between , there be example of excellence . as student progress , their opportunity come from have choice and apply themselves . it be crucial that their choice be inform and that they see option like University Technical College South Durham , rate third out of 4 , 518 school in England for student enter an apprenticeship . question have be ask about some UTCs and t - level , but the partnership UTC South Durham have with Hitachi and Gestamp mean we have an outstanding facility in Newton Aycliffe . as the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Education have say , university choice need to be clear ; student need to be very aware of the life option that will arise from their choice , and the university have to provide course that deliver full value . Sedgefield be not bless with a university , but we be surround by they . we have Durham , Newcastle , Northumbria , Teesside and Sunderland , all of which give complementary opportunity for student to choose from . I be an alumnus of Durham , I study night class at Teesside , and I have be to the Newcastle and Northumbria campus . while space must be leave for those who want non - vocational study , it be imperative that university engage with business to deliver the workforce of the future . I have talk with many business about their need and I have see some fantastic engagement recently , particularly in Durham and Northumbria , in support of our grow space and semiconductor industry . Northumbria University recently receive a £ 5 million award from the UK Space Agency to develop a new laser - base communication system . a good public transport service be essential for our student to get to school or college , but such a service be not available for people in the Trimdons , Ferryhill , Cornforth , Fishburn and Sedgefield in particular . just like my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , I believe it be imperative that Arriva and our local council get together to solve the bus problem that exist in our area . I have listen carefully to what the hon . Gentleman have say . I be a member of the Education Committee . in order for our student to get to college or apprenticeship , they need not only good public transport , but good quality , independent and impartial career information , educational advice and guidance to direct they there in the first place and to show they what opportunity exist . I be afraid to say , however , that independent and impartial advice be not always available in many institution that provide education to those below the age of 18 . I can only agree about the need for that information . I drive around an industrial estate in Aycliffe that have 10 , 000 job and lot of box in it . behind each one of those box , there be so many different career and opportunity . get visibility of that be absolutely crucial . I be pleased to say that a north - east mayoralty have be create , cover the area from Newton Aycliffe , in my Sedgefield constituency , all the way through Northumberland to the scottish border . the area have be allocate one of the investment zone , and I hope it will position itself as an arc from Sedgefield to Blyth , recognise innovation and science throughout the north - east . attract the right prime to support that should be a critical part of the role of the new metro Mayor , when they be appoint . that prime could then be a key platform for build career path and educational pathway for the north - east ' s student . student need to know about how such pathway can lead to great career . when it come to communicate opportunity , role model be a great tool . one of the good role model I have come across be our new chancellor of Durham University , Dr Fiona Hill . with her story , from the back street of Bishop Auckland to Washington DC , or , as she call it , " from the coal house to the White House , " Fiona be commit to support social mobility and I could not be more supportive of what she be try to achieve . while highlight extraordinary story like Fiona ' s , we need the breadth of opportunity to be visible too . we need to shine a light on and support the extraordinary business and research in our area , because that will inspire people to apply . it be through personal application that opportunity arise . in my youth , there be a golfer call Gary Player , who say : " the hard I work , the lucky I get . " we need to inspire our young people to work hard and get lucky . I conclude , as most member have do , by thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and the member of Mr Speaker ' s team for their service , and I thank the people around this great place for everything they have do to make our life easy . I thank my team — David , Maggie , Doug , Hannah and Jonathan — and , as always , my family and friend . my wife be in the Gallery ; the big thank go up there . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I wish everybody a happy recess . thank you , Mrs Howell . I intend to do the wind - up no later than 4 . 30 pm , and they will be eight minute , 10 minute and 10 minute , follow by two minute for Mr Mearns to wash up completely . member can do the math themselves as to how much time they will leave for the person who be last . tempt as it be to add to the thank from colleague who have speak already or to respond to the many interesting point that have be raise , I will not do that , nor will I make lengthy reference to my constituency . instead , I would like to offer some hope . I would like to counter the declinist narrative that say the UK be in a bad way , that our prospect be poor , that this Government be do the wrong thing to the wrong people , make ill - advise decision about the company we keep , all for the wrong motive , and that thing will continue to go downhill . I disagree . I think that that be selective at good , and misrepresentation and falsehood at worst . the fact be that the UK have a great past and prospect of a great future — incidentally , point with which I know Sir David would have agree wholeheartedly . the evidence be that we be do many of the right thing . we be build important link for the good of reason from strong foundation . the world be increasingly unstable — a point the Defence Secretary himself make recently — and yet our system have outlast other and adapt to bad . this speech be about the importance of our Union — the most successful political union in history — and why it have work , why it matter now and why it be the foundation for our future . let we consider these foundation . we benefit from a helpful geography , temperate climate and strategic location . the sea have act as both barrier and connector to the rest of the globe . internally , connection and infrastructure of canal , road and rail have make we strong as we have trade among one another . our system of common law offer an unparalleled environment for the flourishing , testing and implementation of idea . contrast that with restrictive regulatory approach that seek to predict and control . we still have in our society a culture of police by consent , albeit a much test one . we enjoy safety in our street and , of course , the security and fiscal firepower that come with be the fifth or sixth — depend on who we believe — large economy in the world . we stand here today as inheritor of these great asset of a system that be stable and provide for smooth transition of power , despite considerable test from without and within . what part of we could have endure what we have be through as a whole on its own or achieve what we have together on its own ? of course , these foundation include our identity — who we be and what we think . value be not a recipe or menu , and truth be not some kind of sushi bar conveyor of ever change delicacy that pass before we . truth , too , do not change . what , then , have we struggle for and fight over ? be these not the thing we value ? where have be the act of courage , beauty , genius and tragedy to secure our freedom , establish democracy , promote fairness , inspire hope and vision and protect our border , for without they , what be we ? we have build institution on these thing . a cenotaph in every village speak of the ultimate sacrifice pay for share endeavour . I be conscious that by - election be happen today . they speak to the great system of check and balance we have put in place to secure the thing that we value . here I note the big - heartedness of Union think . it have to make room for those who do not want to be part of it . contrast that with the self - diminish purity spiral of other way of thinking . the Union must embrace the difficulty that come with that sense of inclusion . to exclude be to deny itself . be our story not one of different part come together at different time , for different reason and in different way ? do our own personal story not also reflect this ? be this Britishness we have by merit of be throw together on a small set of rock on the periphery of Europe ? the story we each carry speak of this . my mother be a naturalised british citizen ; I be bear in Wales , and I be a proud Welshman and proud to be british . when we look at the demographic , we find that one in eight Scottish , one in five Welsh and one in nine northern irish people live in another part of the UK . be not the story of the Union simply a collection and weave together of our own story — a cord of many , many strand that be not easily break and with a strength that care ? when covid fall , 14 . 6 million job be save through vital furlough and self - employment support . this Government act . two million people — I repeat , 2 million — be add to universal credit in seven day . nothing else like that have be see on earth . we now have energy support , tailor and with a price cap , estimate at £ 78 billion . what then for those link ? where do they take we ? here I confess a concern , because I support our democratically establish devolution and institution , but our Union be no federal construct . the unintended consequence of devolution have be to replace covenant with contract , trust with transaction and nurture relationship with burgeon regulation . who of we would manage our own relationship in the way we approach devolution ? sadly , it have facilitate institutional capture . devolution have become for some a tower that must be build ever strong and ever high . that do allow we to see far , but it take the occupant no close to the promise land they seek . look outward beyond our shore , we have prove , for example in the Commonwealth , our ability to form , deepen and maintain work relationship . country seek our help and heed our advice , and today we be respect around the world . we have the world ' s fourth - large diplomatic network , with 281 post in 178 country ; we be a member of the United Nations Security Council and the G7 . our system of common law , which I have already mention , be emulate and be be implement around the world . now , as a result of this Government , we be the only country on Earth to have free trade deal with the two big trading bloc : the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership and the european economic area . of course , we be also stand up to Russia . I do not want to lead on this , but we have the fourth well - fund military and we lead a coalition of 38 country in the Gulf , ensure the safe passage of good and fuel through that stretch of water . in time of domestic crisis , we mobilise 23 , 000 member of our armed force for the covid support force in every part of the UK . such foundation have build strong relationship for we , and what have we do with they ? a favourable environment have help we to establish a history and tradition of manufacturing and innovation . the connection that be around we have make we a force in international trade , deliver one of the world ' s large economy and establish London as a lead global city . in my recent speech on artificial intelligence in this Chamber , I highlight the risk of a regulatory reproach to that industry . UK common law , by contrast , foster immense opportunity . the right environment for the most exciting technology be here . in the life science , we have again see that a regulatory approach have a chilling effect : the EU clinical trial directive stop 25 % of trial and double approval time , and the European Medicines Agency take twice as long to approve cancer drug as the United States Food and Drug Administration . instead , in this country , because of the action of this Government , we be see pharmacology investment through the like biontech and Grail , and the potential to unleash UK Biobank and the 100 , 000 genome Project . through genetic engineering , the potential productivity gain for farmer within a generation be staggering . in fact , when it come to research and development , four of the top 10 world university be here in the UK . unencumbered by a € 2 trillion EU bail - out , we have be able to invest a further third in our own r & D , raise it to a record £ 39 . 8 billion . I have be deliberately provocative in some of those illustration , Mr Deputy Speaker , and some of they be contest , but that make my next point : the opportunity — order . before you do that , could you finish by 3 . 50 pm , please ? I be introduce an eight - minute limit . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be go to say that the opportunity to contest those idea and the crucible for do so be here in the UK . what then of the future ? leadership be look within , look up and look ahead . we have do that through the darkness of world war , conflict and suffering . we have respond to the threat of a pandemic and war in Ukraine . we have lead . we have see beyond the boundary of the EU that we be constrain by . the first part of any plan for this country must therefore be a collective response , together as a United Kingdom . we be not prepare for the last war or for old customer ; AUKUS and the CPTPP be all about respond to the future and the opportunity and threat there . what well testimony be there than the fact that we be the most attractive country in the G20 amongst 18 to 24 - year - old ? a nation do not define itself through introspection , but through action . as we emerge from the storm of recent year , we british find ourselves once again the author of our own distinctive story . as with the Britain of previous age , the story be likely to offer fresh source of collective pride , beauty and dismay . we will write this together with the value we defend and the word that we speak . I will finish by call on the Minister to bring the Minister for the Union — the Prime Minister — to this House to lead a debate on the state of the Union , a story that be important for we all to hear . there be now an eight - minute limit . any intervention will eat into the time of the person who be last . I begin by thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and Mr Speaker ' s whole team for all your support this year . it have be much appreciated . speak in the second Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate be a huge privilege for I . it be wonderful to hear so many warm wish and memory , which I know be of great comfort to Lady Amess and the whole family . many people have say to I , " when be a plaque go to go up in this Chamber to commemorate Sir David ? " . I be delighted to tell the House that that plaque have now be design . it be nearly ready . I know we be not allow to use prop , and I will not , but I want to tell the House that if anyone want to come and see the plaque , it be extremely beautiful . I have a copy on the Bench here . the motto say , " his light remain " , which I think be incredibly apt . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I must start by say how delighted Sir David would have be that the Boundary Commission have decide not to break up his beloved Southend West constituency , and I be delighted that I will continue to represent the people of the Eastwood and St Laurence ward . I look forward to add the people from St Lukes ward . our new outstanding sport reporter at the Echo , Chris Phillips , recently play tennis for 11 hour non - stop to raise money for South East and Central Essex Mind , raise £ 12 , 000 . that take his total fundraising to more than £ 100 , 000 . he be a community hero . it be also wonderful to know that Leigh - on - Sea will be recognise in our constituency name . it be , after all , name in the Domesday Book . I must declare an interest , because it be where I be bear . next , I must highlight our great success in the May election . Sir David would have love the fact that we now have 14 conservative town councillor — a comfortable majority on Leigh - on - Sea Town Council — and that we take back control of Southend - on - Sea City Council with two new conservative councillor , include the excellent Owen Cartey in West Leigh , who happen to be my councillor . I be also delighted this year to welcome as mayor Councillor Stephen Habermel of Chalkwell , with his choose charity Havens Hospices and the incredible , awe - inspire Music Man Project , which some member hear play brilliantly again last night in College Green . they recently play at No . 10 , and there be not a dry eye in the house . they be soon to come to Parliament . People often ask I , " what have you be do for our constituency ? what be your priority ? " . my first priority this last year have be to make Southend West safe . I be delighted that we now have 83 more police officer , three new set of knife detection pole and new CCTV camera in Old Leigh . our pioneer Operation Union be not only be repeat this summer , but be roll out nationwide . thank to the inspirational Julie Taylor , we have blee kit available in ever more pub and club . I be particularly delighted that by work with the brilliant local policeman , Inspector Paul Hogben , our conservative police and crime commissioner , Roger Hirst , and the Home Office , we be soon to ban nitrous oxide , and zombie knife in all their form will soon be completely outlaw in private place . that will make Southend safe , and that be much to be commend . I must also commend Eastwood Academy which , through I , feed into the recent Home Office consultation . that be not all . make Southend West healthy have also be a top priority , and with the support of this Conservative Government , my hon . friend the Member for Rochford and Southend East ( Sir James Duddridge ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , we have secure the delivery of more than £ 8 million for a reconfigured A & E department at Southend University Hospital , more than £ 1 million for a new active discharge lounge , 11 new ambulance and 111 new ambulance staff . with other south Essex colleague , we have finally secure from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care an absolute promise that the remain £ 110 million pledge to improve our local hospital be secure , and we await an update in - scope business plan . I pay tribute to the work of those from the Lady McAdden Breast Cancer Trust who , with their knit knocker , will be return to Parliament during Breast Cancer Awareness Week this autumn . thank to the work of Sam Batstone , we now have free suncream dispenser along some of our beach . work with Chalkwell Lifeguards , I have sponsor one of they myself , and I thank Philip Miller , the CEO of Adventure Island , for sponsor another . I thank everybody who work so hard in our NHS in Southend West for the incredible work that they do . that be one of the reason I be campaign for a dedicated NHS medal to recognise their outstanding service , just as we already have for the police , the Army , the Post Office and the fire service . of course , that be not all . my third priority have be to make Southend West wealthy , so I be delighted we kick of the year by be give the pier of the year award . I know the pier be not in Southend West , but as many member know , Sir David stray right across Southend in this place and in his patch . Southend be already home to incredible music , theatre and art , which be why I want to see we finally become a city of culture in 2029 . I have be to at least 50 production in the past year alone , include by the brilliant Love2Sign choir , the Southend Operatic and Dramatic Society , Leigh Orpheus , Cantare , the Show Choir and the Eastwood Chorale , to name but a few . we have an incredible seaside and underwater heritage , include the London shipwreck . we have five blue flag beach — the most anywhere in the east of England — and the big ferris wheel in the south - east . we have have eight seaside award , and we have a grow number of octopus , dolphin , porpoise and seal . of course , no city can prosper without a thriving local economy , which be why I be delighted to spearhead a new banking hub at Leigh Broadway , and to help our fisherman — Osborne ' s , Deal ' s and Fruits of the Sea — to negotiate their new fishing licence . we must have a transport system fit for a city , and with this Conservative Government , that be exactly what we be go to get . we now have a new bus route , 12 new state - of - the - art train , with contactless ticketing come , and upgrade to the A13 . I have be very clear that we must not lose any of our ticketing staff at any of the station in my patch . there be hero everywhere in Southend West , which be why I have have to launch a community hero scheme , alongside my local paper , the Echo and the Leigh - on - Sea News . I thank and pay tribute to their editor , Chris Hatton and Mike Guy , for their support in make this happen . already nominate by the community , we have have community hero Jill Allen - King , Chalkwell Lifeguards , the Love2Sign choir , Anne Thurgood , Sharon Gatland , Brenda Barnes , Claire Harper , Steve Ellis , Jack Venturini , David Dutton , Bob Hazell and 14 - year - old Maryse Fisher , with many other to come . of course , that be not all . in time - honour fashion , I must also recognise the work of the Bluetits , Southend Against Sewage and all 29 of our local headteacher . with 28 of our 29 school be good or outstanding , I welcome wholeheartedly the £ 78 . 6 billion of record funding for our school . order . sorry , but we have to leave it there . thank you very much , but in Sir David ' s inimitable style , you get a lot in there . on 1 March this year , the Home Office state that within four month — that be now — RAF Scampton would be up and run to its full capacity of 2 , 000 illegal migrant . it be now the end of July , and as of today there be zero migrant house at Scampton . in May , I table a write question ask when work would begin . all the Home Office basically say in the ministerial reply be " shortly " and " as soon as possible " . the Home Office have not even take control of the site from the Ministry of Defence . it have not commence the survey work need even to establish an implementation plan . it have not do an airwave control plan , and it have not develop a mitigation strategy for safe entry to and exit from the site . it have not make any proposal regard how to manage the wide - range contamination on the site . we know there be certainly asbestos on the site . unfortunately , despite my request , the Home Office refuse to release the material safety data sheet for Scampton . early this month , I table a write question ask what assessment the Home Office have make of the potential radioactivity level at Scampton . I receive an email from a cold war RAF veteran , who spend nine year at Scampton servicing Vulcan B . 2 bomber . he report : " during that time the RAF ensure that our work clothing be regularly launder to ensure complete removal of all ' radiation ' particle in the interest of our health and safety … the vulcan aircraft be cover in Radiation particle particularly during high level sortie and we be tasked to wash they down on a regular basis at a specially prepare area on the airfield … the Wash Teams be supply with special protective clothing to undertake this task . " I be afraid that the Home Office ' s reply be less than reassuring . it merely assert that it will " ensure that all accommodation be safe , habitable , fit for purpose , and meet all regulatory requirement " . the Government have utilise class Q emergency power for their plan . they notify West Lindsey District Council of that on 17 April 2023 , so their emergency power will expire on 16 April 2024 . under class q , any and all development relate to those power must be remove from the site by 16 April 2024 . that be under eight month from the actual date illegal migrant be expect to arrive at the site . West Lindsey apply to get the former officer ' mess list on 24 March . it have chase that up and understand that it will be present to the Department for Culture , Media and Sport imminently , but we be still wait . perhaps the Home Office should accept our advice that Scampton be far more complicated a site than it anticipate at the beginning of this saga . any temporary housing of migrant there risk be so temporary as to be useless and ineffective . meanwhile , we have a £ 300 million regeneration package sign , seal and champ at the bit for delivery . this be a once - in - a - generation opportunity . we can transform Scampton into a mixed - use site , protect the history of the base while open up commercial , aerospace , defence , hospitality and educational opportunity . there will be a Red Arrows visitor centre . the runway will be keep open for use , and the sky will still be use for Red Arrows training and practice flight . business jet will be able to use Scampton , open up opportunity for enterprise across West Lindsey . a space innovation business park would bring research and development to Lincolnshire . drone and other unmanned aerial vehicle can be develop at Scampton . the A46 midland aerospace corridor can be an engine for growth . there be plan for a business incubator to help small business to grow into large one . Scampton Holdings want to promote small business even beyond the business incubator zone by create a number of low - cost live work unit to help microbusinesse . the protection of RAF Scampton ' s history be at the heart of the regeneration package . it would see historic building use by the Dambusters restore and utilise for educational , informational and touristic purpose . Scampton will become a centre for aviation heritage and the maintenance of historic aircraft . a conference centre will link it with hotel and hospitality facility , but Scampton ' s aviation history would not be dead . the runway would be keep operational and license under the Civil Aviation Authority . EGR313 , the restrict flying zone above and around Scampton , would be maintain . it could still be use by the Red Arrows . the last time the Red Arrows leave Scampton , they come back because the airspace be ideal . even though they will not be base on the ground , they will still be able to use the sky . the long - term hope , as I say , be for Scampton to be develop as a spaceport . there be potential for horizontal launch of small satellite . since RAF Scampton ' s closure be announce in 2018 , West Lindsey District Council have move heaven and earth to try to come up with a good regeneration bid . my fellow Lincolnshire mp and I know how badly thing can go when surplus Ministry of Defence property be just dump on the open market : no consultation with local , no discussion about local need or priority , and no crafting of investment or creation of economic opportunity — just flog it off and it be no long the MOD ' s responsibility . that be what we see with previous disposal . I be determined , and West Lindsey be determine , that we must not let that happen this time . here be an ideal site , just mile from Lincoln , and precisely where our economy could use a shot in the arm . West Lindsey District Council engage with local people and community , and consult and listen to stakeholder , business and partner . the simple goal be to create a sustainable future for RAF Scampton that unlock the full potential of the site . the plan that West Lindsey and Scampton Holdings come up with be fund , commercially viable and deliverable . it would keep the airfield open , create a cascade of further opportunity . it would protect the important heritage of the base , and add amenity for people around West Lindsey , Lincolnshire and the whole country to make use of . meanwhile , the Home Office plan throw a spanner in the work . as we have see , its propose timeline have be wildly off course . the investment opportunity that we want to unlock require immediate access to the site in order to kick - start delivery . key feature of the site , such as the runway and its associated operational function , be be neglect . even the grass be grow , and 100 building , many of they list , be at risk . if the restricted airspace be permanently stand down , it would negate many of the air , space and satellite investment that we want to deliver . West Lindsey have bring a legal challenge to the Home Office ' s plan that be proceed at pace . my understanding be that , if the environmental impact assessment be find to be flawed , the class Q emergency power may be render invalid . we seek assurance from the Secretary of State that Scampton will not be use to accommodate illegal immigrant until a final resolution be reach , after the judicial review . we in West Lindsey in Lincolnshire be part of the great United Kingdom . time and again , this proposal have be announce . we have state that we be willing to do our bit , but all the Home Office seem to need be a bit of hard standing somewhere — anywhere — in which to temporarily house these economic migrant in portacabin accommodation . choose Scampton of all place , which be on the cusp of remarkable , game - change regeneration , be the height of folly . it be mind - numbingly unwise . it show that any claim of the Government ' s to joined - up thinking be totally divorced from reality . all be not lose ; there be still time for minister to drop these plan . I have show how much trouble they cause , and how little reward be to be gain from carry they through . if our court case fail , and somehow the Home Office be allow to advance with its proposal , we will need to see how much of the site can be free up as soon as possible . the Home Office want to use only 8 % of the footprint . surely the majority of the site can be hand over to West Lindsey and Scampton Holdings , so that they can crack on with the regeneration that be so dearly need . let they get on and finish the job . I apologise for have to speak so quickly , but this be an incredibly important issue . there be an impending court case , and a lot to say , and everything must be put on the record in this House . first , may I align myself with all the tribute to Sir David Amess ? his be a life unfairly cut short , but his memory will live on forever . through you , Mr Deputy Speaker , I thank all the staff : the Clerks , the Doorkeepers , the Speaker ' s team — everyone who keep democracy alive behind the scene ; it be hugely appreciated . thank be the theme of my speech , which I will do my good to give as quickly as possible . when I stand for election in 2019 , I have a series of key pledge , and I be pleased to say that , this year , I will deliver on every single one of they . while many politician like to take all the credit for themselves , I know that this have be do through teamwork , and with the support of other . that be why I want to spend my time thank the people who make fulfil the pledge possible . the first pledge be perhaps the most prominent : secure the funding for Watford General Hospital . my thank go to the leadership team at West Hertfordshire teaching Hospitals NHS Trust , include — but not exclusively — Matthew Coats and Phil Townsend , who have be phenomenal in make sure that the plan be achievable and ambitious , and that we secure the funding . they have help I be an absolute pain in the neck to Ministers , from the Prime Minister down , every single day , so that they know what we want , and we be able to achieve it . I come into Parliament with a challenge to tackle the stigma around mental ill health . I launch an initiative to train 1 , 000 people in mental health first aid awareness ; I would love to go into much more detail on that , and the work that I be do . I give particular thank to the team at Watford and West Herts chamber of commerce , especially Chris , Saffron and Lee , who have be phenomenal in make sure that we be hit that target . I have good news come on that later in the year , but I do not want to jump too far ahead on that . on the national scale , there be my work on the first - aid ( Mental Health ) Bill . I be also try to encourage the Government to look at how we could change the rule to ensure well parity between physical and mental health in the Health and Safety Executive guideline . I have be very grateful to the Ministers who have meet I to discuss that ; to those across the UK who be tackle suicide prevention ; to the team behind Baton of Hope ; to the team who work with I on the " where ' s your head at ? " campaign , for which I be proud to be an ambassador ; and to Dr Alex George and Chris Murray , who have be phenomenal this year . they have really help and support I , and drive I forward to deliver on my promise . I say that I want to tackle rough sleeping . I be pleased to say that , over the past three and a half year , I think around £ 5 million — possibly a bit less or a bit more — for this issue have go to Watford . I have really fight for that and work with Government to achieve it . it mean that , in Watford , we go from have 70 to 80 people on the street every night over decade , to zero at one point in the past couple of year . I think we be at around five to 10 people now ; one person on the street be too many , so we need to make sure that we support they . yes , I could get the Government funding ; I could get support for the issue , and push and champion it ; but really , this action be spark by a gentleman call Matthew Heasman at New Hope UK , a fantastic local charity , and Rob Edmonds . Matthew get I involve from day one of the pandemic . he help I to get the Government to make sure that we could get everyone in and that have continue . the team at one YMCA have be phenomenal in make sure that we deliver on that and have a process that really support people ; Guy Foxell and Mark Turner enable that . outside Watford , there be , sadly , still more rough sleeper . so I be work with Hand on Heart , which be a fantastic charity that work from Watford , to support other in other constituency . on business , I would love to go more into the list of business that I have visit , but the big one for I be make sure that we support our hospitality sector . last year , there be a risk to Pryzm nightclub , which I hold a debate on in this Chamber and I also present a petition on it . the nightclub be save , thank to the work that I do with the team there , who be phenomenal , especially David Vickery ; they be incredible . the reason that work be so important be that it support our night - time economy . it protect our taxi driver , make sure that they have people to drive home every night . we have about 1 , 500 to 3 , 000 people come into Watford just to use the night - time economy , and Pryzm nightclub be at the heart of that . even one of our own Doorkeepers meet his wife there , so there be definitely a Westminster link there . also challenge from a business perspective be make sure that we continue to fight the nonsense from the Mayor of London around ULEZ , because that will cost my constituent a lot of money , especially those who be struggle . on tackle crime , I be pleased to say that , thank to the work with the local police and our police and crime commissioner , we have a new police station come later in the year , which be fantastic news . our current police station be in a place call Shady Lane , so I be a bit upset that we be lose the Shady Lane police station , but the new one will be much more modern and suitable for our fantastic new police officer and our fantastic team . I would also like to formally welcome our new police chief inspector , Andy Wiseman , and all of the new police officer who be secure across Hertfordshire — more than 300 extra police officer , I think , which be fantastic . I also thank they for the support that they have give I when I have be out on dawn raid . there be always a bit of a panic when they say the address that the police be go to raid , because there be the worry that your house will be mention . thankfully , that have not happen so far . it have be phenomenal go out with the police , often in the middle of the night , to see what they do to keep we safe and to make sure that , behind the scene , the bad people do not get away with what they want to do . it be incredible work . I wish to thank everyone , include student from various school , who have be part of Dean ' s green team , work on the environment . one of the big pledge that be make during the election be to end the use of single - use plastic . I know that that be come through later this year , which be phenomenal . the Environment Act 2021 and all the work that be do at COP26 have be so important for all of we around the world , but especially for my constituent in Watford , who be very caring about our local environment . I have previously talk a lot about our local community and the charity that do so much . they include one Vision , Watford Workshop , Community Connect , Step2Skills , Alternatives , the Random Caf é , Watford Women ' s Centre and Watford Interfaith Association . there be so many I could list . they be all phenomenal , but what they be really good at be work together . that be what be so important . as we look at community , it be about the thread that combine we into a tapestry of the story of our town and our community . we also have every religion in Watford — it be one of the wonderful thing about our interfaith community . I will not mention any of the faith now , because I know that I will miss out about five as I try to rush through my point . if I may , I will encourage all to watch " Mission Impossible " . it be a bit of a turn - off , but I say at the start that this be an impossible mission for I . during the pandemic , I be very proud that " Mission Impossible " , which be in cinemas now , be partly film in Leavesden . I help to change the rule with the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Home Office to make sure that film double could change , so that Tom Cruise could go around the world and get the rest of the world to follow our rule , which mean that the film could be film and be in our cinema today . that be a massive change , and I thank the team in Government at the time for enable that to happen . as with everyone else , I could not do this job without my team . we have work on more than 20 , 000 case . I thank Tori , Michelle , Jayne , Abbie , Imogen and now Jonathan for all their hard work . the surgery that we hold and the work that we do behind the scene be just phenomenal . my final thank go to two people , without whom I could not do this speech : my parent . it be their emerald anniversary today — 55 year . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . happy anniversary . I start by remember our dear friend , Sir David Amess , who be a personal family friend as well . he take a day trip to Hyndburn just after I be elect to visit the grave of my predecessor , Ken Hargreaves . as you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , we be not always bless with beautiful weather in east Lancashire . however , Sir David turn up with a bag of 15 candle for we to light at Ken Hargreaves ' grave . after about 15 minute of attempt to light the candle in the pour rain , member can imagine that it be become rather frustrating that Sir David be not give up . eventually , though , he do , and we end up at the pub and get his dog of the day capture from the Ossy Con club in Oswaldtwistle . our duty in this place be to our constituent who elect we . for some , the cut and thrust of parliamentary politic seem alien . the atmosphere can sometimes be fraught and the debate be always robust . but as I prepare to return to my constituency of Hyndburn and Haslingden , I be remind of all the good work that we can do in our privileged position as Members of Parliament for our constituency and our constituent . in that spirit , I wish briefly to mention the debate I lead in Westminster Hall yesterday on hyperemesis gravidarum , a cruel condition that affect pregnant woman , include a constituent of mine , Jessica Cronshaw , who sadly pass away after suffer with HG at 28 week pregnant with her beautiful baby Elsie . it remind I of the vital work that we do here and will hopefully be the starting point for change for all HG sufferer . when I be elect in 2019 , I be 24 year of age and suddenly find myself represent my home town here in this place . People often tell I that I be fight an uphill battle and that our area be down and out after a decade of manage decline at a local level . I want to change that perception and to provide people who have give I so much during my upbringing with some hope for the future . now we see the wheel of change in motion in Hyndburn and Haslingden . although there will always be merchant of doom who trade in complain but provide no solution , progress have indeed be make . early this year , we receive the news that we have be successful in secure £ 38 million of levelling - up funding . this historic investment will go a long way to rejuvenate Accrington and incorporate a vision to create more social , cultural , heritage and work space , link up with our railway station to provide an economic jumpstart for our town . we have also see investment such as the Clayton community hub and share prosperity funding to create a vibrant space in Haslingden market . in Rishton and in Haslingden , two secondary school be be rebuild through the school rebuild programme , and our further education college be now an institute of technology roll out t - level for young people . such seven - figure investment will ensure that family in Hyndburn and Haslingden can rest assure that their child and grandchild will be give the good possible start in life . couple with the news early this week that Hyndburn and Haslingden will receive its high ever amount of education funding through the national funding formula , it be fair to say that our child and young people will be equip with the skill they need for the future . to capitalise on great investment in our economy and in education , we need job . I have be work with great local company and business group on increase the number of apprenticeship in Hyndburn and Haslingden so that we have more high - skilled and well - pay job in our area . but life be not just work . Hyndburn and Haslingden be a beautiful constituency with roll green field and many active grassroots sport club . I have be work to improve our park and green space so that everyone can enjoy they , and yet again we have receive Government support for that . the news that incident of fly - tipping be come down be welcome , and the fact that our council now have increase power to fine fly - tipper up to £ 1 , 000 mean we can do more to deter those who would harm our environment . whether it be cricket , football , rugby , boxing or tennis , I have be work to support my local grassroots club so that they can improve their facility and widen participation , because sport be so important not just for mental and physical health but in provide people , young or old , with a social opportunity . I return to the point that I make at the start of my speech : in this place we can push for positive change , which be what I try to do here every day for my home because , after all , I have live there all my life and I want to see the place thrive . there be always more to do and more that I want to do to ensure that we can continue to make stride forward across all town and village in Hyndburn and Haslingden . finally , I reassure my constituent in Oswaldtwistle and beyond that , as their local MP , I will do everything in my power to make sure that the civic theatre be reopen after the parent company recently go into liquidation . as many know in Hyndburn and Haslingden , I be an Ossy girl bear above the lamp — a Gobbiner — and much of my love for musical theatre start on that very stage , through Moor end Primary School choir and the youth drama group Sparks . I pay tribute to my fantastic team in Hyndburn and Haslingden and here in Westminster : Alex , Caroline , Stacey , Jo , Steven and James — who be graduate today , so a huge congratulation to James on graduating . sadly for those on the Front Bench , I will return in September more determined than ever to bring more investment and to deliver more reform for my Hyndburn and Haslingden constituency . I be sure minister be happy they will have a break from my East Lancs accent pushing for change , but I urge they to keep push forward with the levelling - up agenda that this Government promise to deliver , so that constituency like mine that be long forget can build on the progress we have make . I thank everybody in the House and hope everybody have a lovely summer recess . a lot of celebration — well do , James . it be a pleasure to take part in the David Amess debate yet again . it be about 10 or 11 year since the Humber be christen the energy estuary , and we have extensive scheme in development . if the country be to achieve its reduction in co2 emission , it have to focus on the Humber , which apparently be the dense cluster in the UK . Zero Carbon Humber be a consortium of major company that be work towards carbon capture and hydrogen project . we also have a project for sustainable aviation fuel and a green energy terminal at the port of Immingham , which , as I have say many time , by tonnage be the large port in the UK . I be privileged last Friday to go to the official launch of the Humber freeport . it be about seven year since I go to the launch of the freeport project here in Parliament , when a young thrust Member of Parliament — who happen now to be the Prime Minister — present a report with the idea of develop freeport . I see the advantage of that to my constituency and establish the freeport all - party parliamentary group to push the Government in that direction . I be delighted that that policy be adopt , and the freeport in the Humber be now establish and open for business . another thing that would make the area even more attractive to potential investment be the conclusion of the Greater Lincolnshire devolution deal , which have be in and out of various Ministers ' file for a number of year . it be crucial if we be to get the good advantage , particularly for the north of Lincolnshire , but the benefit will spread throughout the county . we be fortunate to have be successful with two levelling - up bid . one be for the Cleethorpes masterplan , which detail the further regeneration of what I have say many time be the premier resort of the east coast . the other be for various project surround transport in Barton - upon - Humber , particularly the crucial Barton relief road . Barton have benefit greatly from the reduction in the Humber bridge toll — an early campaign by myself and my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) — but Barton be expand and , like most market town and village , have have to take far too many housing development without the associate public service to support the new resident . I urge the Government , as other member have this afternoon , to focus on planning system reform so that development run in tandem with the extension of public service , which be so essential to any community . as I turn to my final topic , I be delighted that the Rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , have enter the Chamber . as he might expect , I be go to talk , as other have today , about ticket office closure , which be one of those issue that have come to the fore . every now and again , all government and council make what seem like a routine decision and then it suddenly come back to bite they . I suggest to the Minister that this might be one of they and that it need some further consideration . the rail sector have do much in recent year to assist , in particular , blind and disabled people , and it be those people who be most up in arm about this project . compromise be surely available . may I suggest one ? perhaps , before implementation — and I hope that implementation be delay , preferably long delay — we could at least know where the staff will be redeploy and the hour for which they will available at the station . there be 10 railway station in my constituency , and only one , at Cleethorpes , have a ticket office . the objection from North Lincolnshire Council , which have be send to the Secretary of State , say : " the Council have previously work in partnership with TransPennine Express to refurbish and upgrade the ticket office at Cleethorpes and Grimsby Town train station . the Council ' s financial contribution be make through the Local Transport Plan Capital Programme . if the ticket office be closed … North East Lincolnshire will not experience the anticipated benefit from the Council ' s … contribution . " yet again , public money have go into improve a facility that , only a short time later , be close . this be economic madness . I urge the Minister to reconsider and to take particular note of the objection that be come from disabled group , who be passionately opposed to these development , and I urge the Government to delay their implementation . we now come to the wind - up speech . my guidance be for each speaker to take eight minute . I thank all member for their contribution , many of which I agree with , surprisingly . I want first to pay my own tribute to Sir David Amess . he be so kind to I . true to his character , he be the first person to come and speak to I when I return to the House after the death of my husband in 2018 . Sir David be a great parliamentarian and one of the most decent human being I have know . it may surprise you to know , Mr Deputy Speaker , that I make my maiden speech in this place on 16 July 2015 . my , how time fly . in that speech , I refer to answer give by constituent to my question , " what ' s great about Motherwell and Wishaw ? " I be able to confirm my own view that folk in Motherwell and Wishaw have a real sense of social justice , and want a fair and more equal society — which , under continuous Tory Governments since 2015 , have not happen . we have the heinous two - child benefit cap , we have be take out of Europe against our will , and we have be subject to increase austerity and a huge increase in the cost of living , especially through the increase in energy cost . unfortunately , the official opposition do not propose to immediately reverse the two - child benefit cap , and they have no intention of take we back to Europe , which will be of no benefit to my constituent . shortly after my maiden speech , I establish the Poverty Action Network to bring together organisation base in or work in my constituency . it be still go strong , and it be a huge help to I and to my constituent . I want to pay tribute to some of those organisation for all that they do , and I want — in the spirit of Sir David — to mention as many as I can . I will certainly miss some out , but I be go to give it a bash . those organisation include make 4 u in ML2 , Motherwell & Wishaw citizen advice bureau , Routes to work , Christians Against Poverty , the Baptist Church , the National Lottery Community Fund , Lanarkshire Community Food & Health Partnership , North Lanarkshire Disability Forum , the Voice of Experience Forum , Motherwell Football Club Community Trust , North Lanarkshire Carers together , Befriend Motherwell , Wishaw South Parish Church , the Miracle Foundation , Lanarkshire Baby Bank , one Parent Families Scotland , North Lanarkshire Council ' s tackle poverty team , Social Security Scotland , Veterans Community Hub , Autism take 5 , Dallies Community Larder , Lanarkshire Association of Mental Health , and Remploy . that be not all of they ; I cut it down quite a bit . Most of the organisation come regularly and they all benefit , and I benefit , particularly from their networking . my constituent be grateful to all of those organisation and I will be visit many of they during the recess . to add a wee note , I have scarcely sit down after business question when I receive an email from the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — the Leader of the House ' s pointy sword have truly a fabulous reach , as I have be try to get something do on redundancy modification order since 2016 and I have get the offer of a meeting with a Minister ! [ hon . member : " Yay ! " ] I have be privileged to chair the all - party group on post office and I want to thank all its member across the House , but I particularly thank Lord Arbuthnot and the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for their wise counsel . the fight for fairness and justice for sub - postmaster and for proper compensation for they after the Horizon scandal be the focus of what we be do . the continuation of the network be vital for all of we and all our constituent . if and when we continue the network and it continue to grow , we must pay sub - postmaster a decent wage for all that they do in our community . I also have have the huge privilege of become the Scottish National party Westminster group spokesperson on disability . this have be life change for I : listen to story of live experience from constituent and other have sometimes drive I to a mixture of tear and fury at how a country and society as rich as ours treat disabled people . I have hear many member today talk about what be go to happen if ticket office close and that be just a small part of this . we should all remember that 20 % of the population of this country have a disability , often invisible . the benefit regime be fail those who be unable to work . the cost of living crisis and high energy cost have lead to horrendous challenge for disabled people and their family . the Government and we as parliamentarian must continue to fight for our disabled constituent . disability can come to any of we ; we must bear that in mind . not everyone with a disability be bear that way . I also want to pay tribute to carer who help disabled people , especially the army of unpaid carer who save the economy billion of pound because of the care they provide to their love one on our behalf . I thank all disabled and carer organisation who have help I raise issue on behalf of constituent and other . bless they for everything they do . I also want to thank all the House staff . I be especially grateful to they : they look after I and go way above their job role . so many time in the last few year I have be so grateful to they for everything they do . I also want to thank my own team . they have a lot to put up with . [ [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I thank my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) behind I , chuntere from a sedentary position ! my constituent be serve by some of the good caseworker and good staff in this place ; I will challenge anybody on that . will my hon . friend give way on that ? no , I will not . [ laughter . ] I thank my staff for put up with I and my demand on they , but most of all I thank they for the work they do for folk in Motherwell and Wishaw . we all know in this place that we be only as good as those who work for we , and I be quite good — in fact I think I be very good — because of the work they do for I . Mr Deputy Speaker , thank you for your forbearance and for allow I to talk about the good place and the good constituency across the UK , Motherwell and Wishaw . and we all thank the hon . Lady for not take that intervention from Gavin Newlands . it be an immense pleasure to follow the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , who make a very good speech . I join other Members in pay tribute to our late colleague Sir David Amess , who be rightly honour in the title of the debate . he remain much miss in these debate , in which he be such a fixture — he really do own they — and in the day - to - day life of Parliament . I hear what the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) say about the plaque that will be appear in this Chamber , which we look forward to see . I also want to remember Jo Cox , who be honour in the Jubilee Room just a few month ago at an event organise by her sister , my hon . friend the Member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) , with her parent in attendance . our thought very much stay with she , too , at these time when we remember colleague . on the Opposition Benches , we send our good wish today to the family of Margaret McDonagh , Baroness McDonagh of Mitcham and Morden , follow her funeral yesterday . Margaret be labour ' s first general secretary and later a much respected peer . she be an exceptional general secretary , organise labour to victory in 1997 , and she be an inspirational boss to I and teach I so much as a young election organiser . she set the standard — a very high and exact standard — for we , to which we still aspire today . she be a labour organiser ' s organiser . I know she will be miss by everyone , especially her sister , my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) ; our heart go out to she . I know that today she would be urge we hard to get out the vote in the by - election , so we wish good luck to all our candidate and team who be work so hard . please vote Labour today ! I apologise to the graduate of the University of South Wales in Newport , who I be mean to be join this evening to celebrate their graduation . I be sorry I can not be with they , but I send they huge congratulation . it be a pleasure to respond to this debate for the Opposition . these debate be always a great opportunity for mp to raise a whole range of issue that matter to their constituent , demonstrate most ably by the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , in his speech about his constituent , and repeat by many other . it be too difficult to mention all the point raise by so many member today , so I would like to use this opportunity to raise some issue close to my constituent ' heart . I be strike by the reflection of the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Margaret Ferrier ) on the emotional attachment that we often feel to individual constituent ’ case . in my case , it would be the Smith family , who I meet many year ago and who be hugely impact by the contaminated blood scandal . more recently , my constituent Mike Hermanis , a Falklands veteran , bring colleague to the House to talk to I and other mps about their plea to have document from the inquiry into the bombing of the Sir Galahad unseal . I be deeply move by his story — that of a young man of 19 from Newport East who have spend most of his life seek answer to what happen in the day lead up to that bombing . the story of what happen be document in Crispin Black ' s book " too Thin for a Shroud " , which shed new light on the event of 8 June 1982 , and I would recommend that book to all member . I look forward to work with colleague across the House — there be much interest in this — to support he in achieve the closure he seek , alongside other Falklands veteran . as the first Member to hold a debate on e - scooter and e - bike , and on behalf of my constituent and those who raise their antisocial use constantly , may I urge the Government to bring forward a transport Bill or some other legislation to update the law properly to regulate their use ? this have be draw out for far too long . the legislation be clearly lag behind both their sale and use . I also offer my massive congratulation to Maindee Primary School , Positive Futures , Community Youth Project Newport and other partner who work with young people in Newport East and across our city on win the national partnership of the year award at the Levelling the Playing Field scheme award early this week . they be a group of incredible community volunteer , teacher and role model who be a force of nature and deserve every recognition . this debate be also a chance to reflect on the Government ' s record this term . I will just say a few thing — there be certainly a lot of material to go on . this be the Government of economic mismanagement , a Government of low growth and high taxis who have fail our industry and our constituent . from the Tory mortgage bombshell that be hit so many of our constituent hard — [ interruption . ] it be true , include those 8 , 500 resident in Newport East who will be pay around £ 2 , 300 more on their mortgage , and the hundred of thousand of other across the country who be struggle due to this Government ' s disastrous mini - Budget last autumn . I would just like to quote a youngster from Somerton Primary who write to I : " I ' ve be try to think of way to help my mum , but she tell I not to . she work extra hour . I be terrified . I get really worried we might lose our house . " there be no hope with the conservative party , and while I could go on , in reality , we just need a general election . excellent contribution have be make by member from across the House today , include those make by the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) — we thank he for his work . he pack a lot into his speech , above all his love of Gateshead and the importance of strong trade union , and quite rightly highlight the Government ' s woeful record on the asylum system . ten year ago , 90 % of asylum case be decide in six month ; that figure be now 10 % . the backlog be 19 , 000 under the last Labour Government ; it be now estimate to be 166 , 000 . my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , who be fiercely passionate about Swansea East and the community beyond , be a force of nature on the menopause . I particularly praise she for the everyone Deserves campaign , which target holiday hunger during this cost of living crisis . that give I the opportunity to give a shout - out to parliamentary friendship , which sustain we all in our role . I be lucky enough to have she as one of mine . I sympathise with the argument that the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) make about secondary ticketing . he make very good point — I say that as the mother of a Swiftie who have be through various traumatic time . I thank the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) for make some really important point about Bosnia . it be important to highlight that topic , and I hope his argument be well heed : he speak from a position of deep knowledge and experience . the speech of the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , in which she mention steel , allow I to say yet again in this place — as the hon . Lady do — that we need our steel . we need this government to step in and do what they can , as other country be do across Europe , work in partnership to transition that vital industry and to do so swiftly . da iawn , as we say in Wales , to my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) for give a traditional David Amess speech by ably demonstrate her love of her constituency , and by make some really important point about the need to protect private renter and her campaign to ban plastic in wet wipe . the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) mention policing , which allow I the opportunity to reiterate how important community police be , how we be still suffer from the cut that the Government bring in — some 40 % be cut from the budget in Gwent under Tory Home Secretaries — and why we really need labour ' s neighbourhood policing plan . finally , the hon . member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) and for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) mention work experience . I have have the huge pleasure of welcome Bryn , Rachel , Amanda and Tom this summer ; I do not know whether I put they off politic at all , but I have really enjoy have they . I thank everyone who have participate in today ' s debate — I think we be all still recover from the shock - horror moment when the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) reveal that he would be intervene , rather than take part . like other hon . member , I take this opportunity to wish everyone who work in this place a happy and restful summer recess . there be too many role to mention here , but I be go to make the mistake of mention just one by say a particular thank you to our Doorkeepers , whose random act of kindness — they know who they be — sustain many of we who spend a lot of time in this Chamber . I would also like to thank all those staff who work tirelessly in our constituency office up and down the country , include my own team . like the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , I be so grateful to they for put up with I — not least Dan and Elaine , who have move on to more exciting thing , but also Kath , Sarah , Emma , Gardha and Poppy . Poppy have be lend to we this summer by Yale ; she have work very closely with the Sutton Trust , which I think we should praise in this place , to be able to go to Yale , and she be back help out in Newport East , which be wonderful . to all member of this House , happy working recess — for it be indeed a working recess . Diolch yn fawr , and hwyl fawr , Mr Deputy Speaker . Diolch yn fawr . I call Jo Churchill . it be a pleasure to sum up this important debate , which be one of the few occasion when member from across the House can raise any issue they wish . first , I wish to follow other in pay tribute to Sir David Amess , who be such a kind man . his passion for animal , cheeky smile and love of his constituency and his family be all thing that we remember of he , and the tribute today have be incredibly touching , particularly those from my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) and my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , who know he well . it have be a wonderful debate and we have be listen to fantastic contribution from member from across our country . we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) , the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Margaret Ferrier ) , for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) and for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) , the hon . member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) and for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , and my hon . friend the Members for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . we hear a speech from Lincolnshire , from my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) — a happy birthday , Sir Edward ! we hear from those with constituency nearby , my hon . friend the Members for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) and for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , and from my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) , my hon . friend the Members for Watford ( Dean Russell ) , for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) and for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) and for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) . towards the end , we hear from my hon . friend the Members for Southend West , for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) and for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) . our United Kingdom be the most successful political and economic union the world have ever see . it make we safe , strong and more prosperous . it make we well able to share the skill of great institution that we have hear about today , such as the armed force , NHS and civil service . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy for mention much of that . I apologise if I do not get to respond to everybody , but there be a lot to get through . mostly , people highlight how important our work be in change life and how we be help in that work by the team who support we every day . charity , councillor and other help to drive and sustain we in help constituent . that be a theme from north to south , from east to west . we also hear a little about the ticket office . member will know that the Adjournment debate be on that subject , so I will leave those comment in the tender care of the Minister of State , Department for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , whom I see to my right . key theme we hear about be health , mental health in child , education and transport — the thing that make our community function . we hear of much investment that be drive prosperity and job , and about our police now be at a record 149 , 500 in England and Wales . we have have a wonderful journey around the country this afternoon . I have a lot of it still to see , but much of it give I hope , in term of the investment and the progress we be make , help people ' s life . will the Minister give way on that point ? I be sorry but I have so little time and I will not give way . I should mention the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) and all the work he do as Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , for which I thank he . I do note what he say about Gibside School and the pilot for the visually impair child . I hear he champion that be roll out and I will make sure that that Department know . the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , be no long in his place , but I take note of his request for a meeting with the police , the CPS and Ministers , and I will make sure that the Department be aware of it . the doughty hon . member for Swansea East come next into our life with all her colourfulness and her work to help woman through that different stage of life , the menopause , which be also mention by my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield . we thank she for her work highlight it , and the Government have make sure that prepayment certificate have be bring in to make that journey easy for woman . I also note her football tribute to Gareth Bale , which land well with my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East . he point out how expand ULEZ will hit about 200 , 000 londoner , when money be tight , how it will go right out to Uxbridge and South Ruislip and how face charge of £ 12 . 50 a day — up to £ 4 , 500 a year — be a tough thing for people to afford . I join he in urge the Mayor to step back . I also join my hon . friend in wish success for the Smokefree 2030 ambition — he know I be keen on that and would love to see we achieve it too . I look forward to his work experience photo . I have have many young people in my office — Teddy come only this week . it be brilliant that they come and see how our democracy work . we be then take to the constituency of the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Margaret Ferrier ) . I thank she for praise the Home Office , say that the situation have improve markedly . I be sure everyone will join I in wish the young lady who have just arrive from Afghanistan well in her new life in Scotland . please pass on those wish from we all . my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) , who be no long in his place , ask we not to forget the people of Bosnia and the 57 of our man and woman who lose their life . speech be always more powerful when they come from a place of personal knowledge , and I be sure that colleague in the Foreign Office and the MOD hear his remark , and his shout - out to our hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) , whom he praise for his good work as trade envoy . we go over to the constituency of the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , where , I agree , violence against woman and girl be completely unacceptable , and then scoot down to Scunthorpe , where my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) welcome the £ 19 . 4 million funding for one of 111 diagnostic centre that we have create . my hon . friend be know as " Mrs Steel " , and we know that steel be vital to the UK . minister be engage to make sure it have a positive and sustainable future , and I thank she for all the work she do . we then go over the water to South Antrim . our focus remain on deliver for the people of Northern Ireland . I be pleased that the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) welcome the move to restore the Executive in Stormont ; it be our top priority . I know he have regular dialogue with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . we then go to the beautiful Cotswolds . the issue of GL43 and SPA be quite complex , so if my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) will forgive I , I will say only that I note his comment and they will have be hear by the Department . DEFRA may decide to modify the GL should the situation change . we be aware of some technical change to the high level stewardship and have put support in place , but I have ask the Department to look at extend the deadline as my hon . friend request . I thank my hon . friend on behalf of my farmer , who be very troubled by this , as be farmer up and down the country . it would be really welcome if that be to be put back , even by a few week . I note my hon . friend ' s comment . we then hear from my hon . friend the Member for Moray , whom I congratulate on his refereeing skill . he give a shout - out to Steve Clarke and wish his team well . I note his comment about Viaplay . I be sure that the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , our right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , be keen to engage with he . of course , that will be easy if the SNP Government give he the money for the a9 . [ laughter . ] anyway , we move on to Congleton , where we hear about the firm Brit European , whose site be power by solar , wind and methane from moo poo — that be what I write , but I add something in bracket to remind myself what it be . the firm have use those and other innovative solution to create a sustainable site — it sound absolutely fantastic , and all power to they . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ask for a meeting between the Department for Business and Trade and the company SpanSet , and I will make sure the Department hear that request , but I point out that question to that Department take place on 14 September . we whizz to Rutland and Melton , where I be excited about visit the food market when it be establish . I be interested to hear about the medi - hub and congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton on secure the MRI scanner . we know how much early diagnosis help we to change the trajectory of these disease . I also note that she be glad that we have increase fine for fly tipping in rural area . it be a blight , so double the fine to £ 1 , 000 be really welcome . she also welcome the big ever funding for education , and I be sure Sir David would have be warm by the way she trot we around what I think be about 32 subject . I be sure that the Ministers in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero hear her comment . that bring we to Rayleigh and Wickford . all I can say to my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford be that friend be so important , and this place be no different . he miss his friend , and we hear that today . I thank he for his kind word . move on , I wish he enormous luck with secure his special school . education for those with particular need be incredibly important . every child have the right to a good education . that be why the high need funding increase by more than £ 10 billion , an increase of some 10 . 6 % , be really welcome . I also have a RAAC school and hospital in Bury St Edmunds , so I know some of the challenge involve ; I wish he well with that and with his work with his sheltered housing community . off we trot then to my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ; she have get herself a knowledge highway bus and now she be cheekily ask for a bridge before she come back in two year ' time . I be sure the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle , hear she . however , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury really save her passion for her comment on CAMHS and child ' s mental health and the two - year wait for a diagnosis . we all know how vital it be to have a timely diagnosis and the Government be commit to reduce the delay for those child . it be really important to get a quick diagnosis so that we can help to give child the good education . I also congratulate my hon . friend on her comment about chalk stream . they be an incredibly important and special habitat . I know the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , make a particular play in the chalk stream strategy to ensure that we look after that vital part of nature . next , we go to my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington , who thank the Government for the energy bill relief scheme , the household support fund and the uprating of benefit in line with inflation . he paint a very different story from the one we hear from the hon . member for Newport East , but he do bring up the issue of incineration , and I will ensure that DEFRA hear those comment . he also welcome the police and the improvement to his St Helier Hospital and the new work — with the Royal Marsden Hospital , I think he say — to see and treat more people suffer from cancer . then we go to my hon . friend the Member for Darlington and his celebration on rail , with £ 239 million for Bank Top station — it be £ 139 million . I give my hon . friend an extra £ 100 million , with the Rail Minister sit here ; I could not have time that more perfectly . my hon . Friend also mention the Brunswick Street campus , where 80 % of the job be drive by Government funding , help people to drive prosperity . we all know that work be the way to do that . I thank he for all the work he do on the APPG for hospice and end of life care . the Government recognise the importance of access to high - quality , personalise palliative and end of life care , which mean so much to family and patient . I be pleased to see that , as part of the Health and Care Act 2022 , palliative care service be add to integrate care board to help to drive well regional service . [ interruption . ] I be be chivy to hurry up and shut up — by the Whips ! yes — I usually do this bit to other people ! I thank those hon . member to whom I do not get , who all have the same theme of work for their constituency , drive result , help people to prosper and make sure that when life go wrong , they and their team deliver . as we rise for summer recess at the close of business , I offer my thank to all the staff throughout the House , our own staff , the Doorkeepers , the cleaner , the staff in the Tea Room who keep we feed and water , the Clerks , the catering staff , the police , the security staff , Broadcasting and Hansard , who all show amazing commitment and dedication to we , and of course to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and the rest of Mr Speaker ' s team . I wish everybody , include my own team , one of whom have work here for more than four decade — not continuously for I , I would add — and another of whom come here with I in 2015 , a happy , peaceful , safe recess , whether they be at work or play . let we just remember that Sir David ' s light remain . I think I be subject to another Government cut here , Mr Deputy Speaker . [ Laughter . ] this have be a wide - range and well - support parliamentary event , with an oft - repeat theme of ticket office closure , and I be glad that the rail Minister have be here to reflect on some of that . it have be a fitting tribute to the memory of Sir David Amess , and I also need to mention the Member who be not here but who be — the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . Mr Deputy Speaker , to you , right hon . and hon . member across the House , and all the staff who work tirelessly to support the function of the House and keep we safe , I wish a fantastic and well - deserve summer recess . I wish Members safe journey back to their constituency , home and love one . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . before everybody disappear , I just want to say that the spirit of Sir David Amess and his light absolutely shine bright on our proceeding . we all miss he greatly . we all have great memory of Sir David , and his spirit remain here . I thank all my staff , because they at the frontline and take a lot of the flak before it get anywhere near we , so we be grateful for they . all the staff who work here , from the Clerks to the cleaner , from the secretary to the security , make sure that our democracy work as well as it do . I want you all to have a superb recess . as president of the Royal Lancashire Agricultural Show , I look forward to welcome thousand of visitor to the Ribble Valley tomorrow and over the weekend , demonstrate how important rural agriculture be to this country . have a great recess everybody . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . today , by write ministerial statement , the Government make their response to the Kirkup inquiry into avoidable baby death in East Kent . the work on that matter in this place have be lead by my right hon . friend the Member for North Thanet ( Sir Roger Gale ) , so I want to put on the record , on behalf of the whole east Kent community , our thank to he for everything he have do to drive this important issue forward . I also thank the Richford family and all those who have share their grief and their loss so that other family may not be affect by such a tragedy . as the announcement be by write statement , I would be grateful , Mr Deputy Speaker , if you could advise whether the Government have indicate their intention to bring to the House the matter include in that statement , include a new national body for maternity safety , which I think would be of great interest to the whole House . I also add to your comment , Mr Deputy Speaker , and thank you , the other deputy , Mr Speaker , the Speaker ' s team and the House staff for look after we all so well this parliamentary term . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . I have not be notify that there will be any further statement today , and we have fairly well run out of time . however , I be sure that there will be many more opportunity for this and other issue to be raise when we get back in September . petition - car parking charge I rise to present a petition to urge a reversal of the decision by Darlington Borough Council to end the provision of two hour ' free car parking in our town centre . it have be sign by more than 2 , 000 people in just a few short week , with both the lead petitioner and the seconder own and run business in the town centre . since Monday 3 July , people drive into town have face parking charge , lead to increase cost for resident and put the viability of our town centre and its trader in jeopardy , with local business already report a reduction in footfall since the reintroduction of charge . I fully endorse this petition and its content . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the removal of the two hour free car parking in Darlington Town Centre will have a detrimental effect on the local community and on the local economy ; far declare that it must be reinstate by Darlington Borough Council . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Darlington Borough Council to u - turn immediately on their decision to re - introduce these car parking charge in Darlington town centre . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002847 ] Scunthorpe Station Ticket Office Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I be grateful to have the opportunity to raise the propose closure of the ticket office at Scunthorpe train station . I wait for an Adjournment debate for several week , and two have come along at once . I feel fortunate today . I thank the Minister for his time today . I know he will be have a busy day , so I be grateful we have the opportunity to talk about this issue . early this month , many member , include I , receive an email from TransPennine Express to tell we that , in conjunction with train operator across the country , it will be consult on close a number of ticket office that it be responsible for staffing and reduce the number of hour that staff be present in station . the proposal as they stand be for the entire closure of the ticket office in Scunthorpe station and to change the number of hour that staff will be present in the station . currently , it be staff from 5 . 15 be to 8 . 15 pm , Monday to Saturday . that will change to 7 be to 2 pm . on Sundays , the current hour of 8 . 30 be to 8 . 30 pm will change to 9 be to 4 pm . that be ridiculous . it be a halving of the hour that staff will be there . to be clear , that be completely and entirely unacceptable . I be particularly concerned about the impact the cut could have on elderly resident in my constituency . the closure of the ticket office will force people to use the machine or their phone , or to pay for ticket at home use their computer . my understanding be that old traveller be less likely to be digitally connected and to have the know - how to use the machine . I accept that for some it will be fine , but for many it will not . in the absence of a ticket office , they may find themselves stuck . they be also more likely to be dependent on cash . one in five old people rely on cash for payment , accord to Age UK , and under these proposal it may not always be possible for people to go into a station and buy a ticket use cash . that can not be right . the Minister will know that I have express concern about the propose ticket office closure at Darlington . with £ 139 million of intervention in Darlington station , it seem short - sighted to lose that facility . do my hon . friend agree that the need of disabled people , include those with visual impairment and wheelchair user who can not reach the screen of ticket machine , will be severely impact ? my hon . friend be spot on in his observation . I be also concerned about the impact that the closure could have on disabled people , and that issue have be raise with I by disabled member of my community in Scunthorpe . accord to the UK consumer digital index from Lloyds bank , people with a disability be 35 % less likely to have digital skill for life , mean that in the absence of a ticket office they may be leave at a disadvantage . it be just not acceptable that we would make it hard for disabled people to travel around the country . on top of the difficulty in access ticket , the reduction in staffing time be of huge concern . in relation to disabled member of the community and passenger who need extra help , customer with hear impairment , for example , may find it difficult to obtain information if staffing hour be reduce , particularly if they rely on lip read . the screen that have the information up for the train do not always work . I can give my hon . friend a practical example . I use Scunthorpe station last Thursday after attend an event just outside the town . the ticket office be close . I check train time before , and everything be run . I get on to the platform , the information board be not work and no train turn up at the due time . People be leave scratch their head , try to find out the information from their phone . the information have to be readily available for all people , include blind people and the disabled , and I fully support my hon . friend in her effort to keep the ticket office open . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , which we do not even set up . ticket machine be , of course , not infallible . they can break , and can take a while to be replace or repair . it will simply be more difficult for some passenger to get the good deal possible without have a person there to speak to . I be also concerned about have wait room open without staff supervision , which may make they a magnet for antisocial behaviour — something that we work really hard in Scunthorpe to tackle . we do not want to invite that . I be not alone in make these objection ; they be share widely by resident in Scunthorpe . ahead of the debate , and immediately after the proposal be announce , I reach out to my constituent on this issue . we be not backward in come forward in Scunthorpe , and my constituent have be very clear what their view be . of the respondent to the survey , an overwhelming 95 % — these be broadly people who use the station ; we have record that information — do not support the closure of the ticket office and the change to staffing hour . one of the key issue that respondent highlight be the importance of recognise the impact that the sole use of ticket machine or online purchase would have on elderly or disabled people . respondent point out that some people might not be able to use the ticket machine or purchase online without assistance , with 37 % highlight customer service . many state quite simply that they prefer a face - to - face service and the ability to ask for advice on the quick route and make other general inquiry , regardless of what time they be at the station . do my hon . friend agree that many of our resident understand that get people out from behind the screen and on to the platform would be helpful , but when hour be reduce nobody be there to help resident understand when the train be come ? in Accrington , we see a lot of delay at our train station , and if nobody be at the ticket office we do not know what will happen next . do she agree that the reduction in hour be key in this process ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be quite prepared to be pragmatic about this issue if the reality be that the staff member would be able to help for the exact same number of hour , but that be simply not the case . another issue raise by my constituent be safety and security . they say that they be very concerned about solo and elderly traveller , and people travel late into the evening . recently , I pick up a family member a couple of time who have be away to do a course and be use the train service to do that . I would not like to think that at 8 o ' clock on a winter ' s night there would be no member of staff at the station . on its website , TransPennine Express state : " this more modern approach to customer service will mean the traditional ticket office be no long require as our staff will be able to help customer purchase ticket on the concourse " . in its impact assessment specifically for Scunthorpe , it say that " customer will experience a more visible staff presence at station " . I struggle to understand how that can be the case when the staff will be there for only half the amount of time they be there at the moment . to I , that just sound like nonsense . they be warm word from TransPennine Express , but you have to get up a little early in the morning to sneak something like that past the resident of Scunthorpe . scunthorpe ticket office be not unused : nearly 32 , 000 ticket be sell there last year , and an awful lot of resident rely on its service to buy their train ticket . I know that the decision have be take by the current TransPennine Express management , but the Government be not fully remove from influence over it . I feel that it be my duty as a constituency MP to represent my constituent ' view on this matter , and push the Government to ensure that ticket office remain open . closure would undermine the effort that the Government have make to improve customer service on our railway . this come after a period when we have receive a substandard level of service in Scunthorpe . close the ticket office would be an obvious backward step . I hope that the Minister have take on board the view of my constituent , and will do all that he can to ensure that we keep ticket office open . I thank the staff who work at Scunthorpe ticket office . this must be a very worrying and difficult time for they . they do a fantastic job , and my complaint be no reflection on they . they do a wonderful job , and I express my sympathy to they at this time . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) on secure this debate on the proposal regard the Scunthorpe station ticket office . scunthorpe station , as she state , be manage by TransPennine train , which I understand propose to close all ticket office window at Scunthorpe station and move staff to other station area where they be well place to help passenger buy ticket , to provide advice and to give assistance . there have be a huge shift in the way passenger purchase ticket . nearly half of all ticket sale in rail be make online . around one in every 10 transaction take place at a ticket office in 2022 - 23 , down from one in three a decade early , equal to 13 % of rail revenue . I understand from TransPennine train that statistic for Scunthorpe station reflect this position , with 11 % of transaction from Scunthorpe station be make from the ticket office . the figure that have be supply to I show that be equivalent to 59 transaction per day from the ticket office . it be important that industry take step to modernise the passenger experience , by move staff out from ticket office to be more visible and accessible around the station . these reform will bring our station in tune with what customer expect from other modern and responsive service , include supermarket and bank , where customer assistant help with information and support , and help make digital transaction on the shop floor . I welcome the fact that the rail industry have start this process by launch consultation on the future of ticket office , under the ticketing and settlement agreement process . that process set out a well - establish mechanism that train operator must follow when propose major change to ticket office opening hour , include closure . do my hon . friend agree that a member of staff can be more visible only if they be physically in the station ? it be impossible for a member of staff to assist a passenger buy a ticket from a ticket machine if they be not there . the aim be a redeployment aim , as I understand it from the train operator , but I take the point with regard to hour . my hon . friend will be aware that I just set out the process . this be a consultation process . ultimately , it fall back to the passenger group , who represent passenger , to discuss these proposal with each train operator . if they be not satisfied that , for example , the accessibility requirement will be meet , which have to be legally meet , they will rescope those change . if they be not agree by the train operator and the passenger group feel it need to be take far , it will be for the Secretary of State to determine . her point be well make ; I will just leave it there , give this be a live consultation . train operator begin the passenger consultation on 5 July . this be an industry - lead process , with each train operator manage its own station - by - station consultation . I understand my hon . friend be particularly concerned about the impact of the change on elderly and disabled passenger . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) make the same point . as part of the ticketing and settlement agreement process , train operator must set out the improvement or alternative they propose to put in place to support the need of passenger , and include that in the notice send to the other operator and the passenger body , to which I just refer . each operator ' s approach must take into consideration the potential impact on individual with accessibility need . I recognise that not everyone have access to a smart phone or the internet , and that some passenger will prefer to use cash or to speak to a member of staff . this week , I meet with accessibility group again , to hear their view directly and to encourage they to work with the train operator to help shape these idea . I also meet with the train operator this week , and reiterate the need to ensure proposal work for every passenger . ScotRail look at this , in term of ticket office hour and whatnot , last year . after the consultation , it row back from the idea ; it be go to close only three ticket office and to reduce a lot of hour . the Minister say that each operator be look at individual station , but I be a little confused . I travel from Glasgow Central on a regular basis . Avanti have plan to close the Glasgow central ticket office . even a small percentage of those ticket — the queue go literally from the platform to outside the station — be quite a lot of ticket . the LNER have choose not to close the Edinburgh Waverley ticket office . with broadly similar ratio in ticket sale , why be one closing and the other still open ? what be the difference between they ? it be certainly the case that a number of station be not part of the propose closure . just over 70 ticket office will remain open . another example be Manchester , where the ticket office at Manchester Piccadilly will not remain open , if these proposal be follow through , but Victoria and Oxford Road ticket office will remain open . give that the hon . member be also the SNP shadow transport spokesperson , I will do he the honour of write to he so I can set out in more detail exactly why one station have be choose over another and the methodology . indeed , perhaps I can put that in the Library for all to read . as modern ticketing and payment method be roll out more widely , we will work with industry to ensure that everyone remain able to buy a ticket . staff will be available to provide additional support to those who need and want it , include by help passenger to use ticket machine and provide the type of assistance that my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) say occur under the current system . in the event that suitable ticket can not be purchase from the station of departure , passenger will not be expect to travel out of their way to buy a ticket , and will be able to buy en route or at their final destination . for a lot of people there be a great deal of anxiety about the idea of get on a train and go somewhere when they do not have a ticket in their hand or on their phone . I be probably bolshie enough to get on the train and hope I can sort it out somewhere along the journey , but many people will not be . if that change need to go ahead , it need to be widely publicise and people need to be give the confidence to be able to travel in that way . my hon . friend make a very good point . it be certainly uppermost in my mind that there will need to be additional training . forty - three per cent of all station currently do not have a ticket office , and it be perfectly possible for passenger from those station to travel , as they do now . sometimes ticket machine be not operate ; at that particular juncture , the staff on the train will be aware of the situation and will act accordingly . on the train I use , I be use to people get on board and say , " I ' ve be unable to purchase a ticket . can I purchase one ? " and in all my year I have never experience any response but , " yes , that ' s absolutely fine , " rather than go down the penalty fare route . my hon . friend make a good point , though , and I will make sure it be follow up . will the Minister give way ? I will , and then I will make a little progress . I want to raise a point relate to his comment about move staff out of the ticket office on to the platform to provide assistance . at Darlington station , the ticket machine be in front of the barrier . I urge he to make sure that , where staff be move out from behind the counter , they be on the right side of the ticket barrier so that they can provide assistance . I make one further point with regard to the time : an app can provide people with the opportunity to purchase before a train leave the station . my hon . friend have make some good point today , include about the design process . I encourage hon . member to continue to come up with the example of where thing need to work well . ninety - nine per cent of all ticket be available from ticket machine or online , but that mean that 1 % be not . I be work at pace to increase that number . my hon . friend be right about the whereabouts and location of staff ; they need to be there so that passenger can buy the ticket and then access the barrier . we will follow that through , and I encourage he also to continue to come up with example . some operator be propose change to staff hour at station , such as TransPennine ' s proposal for Scunthorpe station , as mention by my hon . friend the Members for Scunthorpe and for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) . TransPennine have tell I that it be clear in its consultation that all currently staff station will remain staffed , but I take the point about the hour . I reiterate to my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe the point about the consultation process and the appeal process , should an appeal need to be make . rise — I have stir my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes from his place . if we take at face value what the train company be say — that this be an effort to save money — and they be move staff out of the ticket office on to the platform , be the Minister reassure by they that there will be a saving ? there will of course be some member of staff who will not wish to make that journey , as their job change to be multi - skilled and multifacete within the station as oppose to solely work behind the ticket office . in such case , where there be a number of ticket office staff available , perhaps one may come out and do that multifaceted role , but the other two may not wish to go on that journey . that may be an issue for they and the station . I recognise , though , that member have highlight the challenge of situation in which only one staff member be present and perhaps the hour be not exactly the same . I refer again to the live consultation : that should be feed back . People will be aware of the appeal process because I have just detail it , and we will of course see what occur at the end of the process . I hope I be not repeat myself when I say that passenger will remain able to secure staff assistance and will continue to have access to station facility such as wait room and toilet as currently provide . be the Minister concerned about the possible risk of antisocial behaviour if we move from have staff station to unstaffed period of time in the evening , which be what be propose in Scunthorpe ? the London underground move from have ticket - office staff to the type of model I be describe , and I do not believe there be any impact vis - à - vis antisocial behaviour . again , I encourage my hon . friend to put forward such point . there will of course be engagement and there be a requirement to meet threshold to ensure that group with characteristic be look after and that we do not increase antisocial behaviour . I encourage she to follow up on those point , which I assure she I have raise myself . my hon . Friend refer to station safety follow the reform . the UK ' s rail network be one of the safe in Europe and we will never compromise the safety of passenger on our railway . as the industry take forward vital reform , safety remain a top priority for all , and certainly for I . it be expect that move staff out of ticket office will make they more visible to passenger , and I hope that it will enhance safety when member of staff be on the platform . will the Minister give way ? I will give way one more time — my hon . friend be work hard . I be so grateful to the Minister . I do not mean to be flippant , but I should point out that although move staff out from ticket office may make they more visible , move they entirely out of the station , so that they be not there , certainly will not . I be particularly worried about period of time when there will no long be staff at the station . I hear my hon . friend ' s point . I refer , of course , to the fact that there be a consultation . I hope she appreciate the argument I be make that while the staff be there , if they be away from the ticket office and on the frontline , they be accessible , can give information and can make people more secure . she make the point that , if there be a reduction in hour , there will not be a member of staff there . I refer again to the feedback to the consultation , but I absolutely take that point . I do not want to pre - empt anything in respect of the outcome , but her voice be hear in the Chamber and her point be on the record . Mr Deputy Speaker no doubt want I to wrap up , so I should get to the end of my speech . I encourage my hon . friend , all right hon . and hon . member , and all constituent to respond to the consultation , and I will encourage TransPennine train and all other operator to take those response into account as they finalise their approach . the consultation provide the opportunity to scrutinise the train operate company proposal to ensure that they will work for passenger . passenger will be able to find out more about the proposal at their local station or online . if passenger want to raise view , they can contact the relevant passenger body , London TravelWatch or Transport Focus . the passenger body will consider any feedback from the public on the ticket office proposal . I will meet they shortly to ensure that they have the resource to fulfil their important role . I believe that the industry ' s propose reform should enable staff to provide a more flexible , agile and personal service . I reiterate that my hon . friend should encourage her constituent to engage in the consultation process for Scunthorpe station ticket office , as that be the good way to ensure that their view be consider . once again , I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate on station ticket office . I wish you , Mr Deputy Speaker , a wonderful summer , and thank all the staff in this great place , include the police who keep we secure . I wish everyone — all the official who work across Whitehall as well as all our great people inside this building — a wonderful summer . I will be spend three week on the railway , follow in the footstep of Michael Portillo , although without the dress sense . I will be look at what our wonderful railway do and all the people who work on it . I look forward to spend my August with the great railway community . let I know when you get to Clitheroe , win ' t you ? I will now put the question for the last time before the summer recess . question put and agree to . House adjourn .