my hon . friend can see just how keen I be to act on this issue . he be right that taxpayer be pay the price for the Conservative Government allow waste and fraud to spiral out of control . the Chancellor of the Exchequer recently take decisive action by appoint a new covid counter - fraud commissioner to help we recover public money and ensure that this never happen again . I be work closely with the Public Sector Fraud Authority to push every avenue to detect fraud , from advanced artificial intelligence and analytic through to strengthen our enforcement power . it be a privilege to follow the contribution today , in particular that of my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who speak so powerfully about his personal experience . I know he will be a great champion for his constituency . I be honour to be the Member of Parliament for the newly rename Burton and Uttoxeter constituency — a community rich in history and diversity . although there be no boundary change , the inclusion of Uttoxeter recognise the proud people and industry that be integral to our area . I be far honour to be deliver my maiden speech in this debate on Black History Month , which remind we of the importance of recognise the contribution of black Britons , past and present , to our society . in my constituency , the Burton Caribbean Association have support resident for more than 45 year . its effort have enrich our community and celebrate the heritage of black Britons in our town , and I look forward to support its work . as I serve in this House , I commit to represent the diverse community across my constituency , ensure that their voice be hear , their contribution celebrate and their challenge address . we all have a duty to ensure that black history be british history , weave into the fabric of our national identity not just for one month , but all year round . it be essential that we not only recognise that history , but address the challenge of inequity that remain . to be elect to this House be the great honour that anyone can bestow , but have the opportunity to serve your home town , as I do , be particularly special . I grow up in Stretton and go to local school , William Shrewsbury and de Ferrers — the primary schoolteacher who appoint I to the school council all those year ago that she have a lot to answer for . on the campaign trail , I bump into many of my former teacher and schoolfriend , include my former headteacher , Mrs Hunter . while I be campaign after become an MP , a former teacher say , " I must be get old , my former student be now my MP . " you can imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , how strange this must feel for my parent , who be watch this debate . I believe they be the hard - work parent of any candidate across the country and without they I could not do this job . they have be with I from the very beginning — quite literally . I come from a military family and I be proud of the service of my brother , alongside all who wear the uniform of our country and defend our freedom . as Remembrance Day approach , it serve as a powerful moment to reflect on those who have give their life in service to our country , and to honour the sacrifice make by veteran , current service personnel and their family . the value of duty , service and sacrifice be not just word ; they be the live experience of everyone who serve , and I will always advocate for ensure that they receive the respect , care , and support they have earn . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Kate Kniveton , who serve in this House from 2019 until the last election . like I , she be a Burtonian and a former employee at the Burton Albion football club . Kate use to manage hospitality and I use to manage the bar in the stand , so I be use to manage difficult people — such as Opposition Members . I commend Kate ' s courage and bravery in speak out about the sexual violence she face . for any woman to go through that privately must be unimaginable , but to waive anonymity and do so in the public eye to help other woman be commendable . she undoubtedly help other through speak out , and I wish she and her daughter well for the future . I also recognise my labour predecessor and friend , Janet Dean , who serve as the MP for Burton from 1997 to 2010 . when Janet be elect to this House , I be not quite bear yet — apology if I have make anybody feel old — but it be Janet and her colleague in that Labour Government who give child like I new textbook , new play equipment , small class size and specialist support for more vulnerable child . much of that have now be unpick , and it fall to this Government to give kid today the opportunity that I and my generation have under that last Labour Government . Janet have continue to dedicate herself to serve the community and can still be find help out in Uttoxeter , particularly at Redfern ' s Cottage , where she make a mean cheese scone . I be delighted to represent a constituency that be diverse in both its people and its place . we have two major town surround by many beautiful village . our large town , Burton upon Trent , be well know for its brewing heritage . we be still the heart of UK brewing today , with large company such as Molson Coors and Marston ' s and independent brewer such as Burton Bridge , Uttoxeter Brewing Company and Tower Brewery . we often hear the remark that there must be something in the water , but in Burton there literally be : our water be rich in calcium sulphate , create the ideal formula for pale ale and bitter — so much so that many other place copy we through a process call Burtonisation . member be of course welcome to join I in sample the original and the good . the iconic red triangle of Bass become the world ' s first ever register trademark . because of Bass ' s global reach , it can be find all over the world , though of course , hon . member will spot it in the many wonderful pub across my constituency . the Devonshire arm and the Coopers Tavern be my personal favourite . during my time in the House I will be an advocate for the brewing industry and our pub , which be a key part of not only our history , but of our present and future . in Burton , more than 15 different language be speak . we have vibrant pakistani , polish and romanian culture . that mix of culture make we strong and be in keep with the motto of our county of Staffordshire , " the Knot Unites " . if you head north - west from Burton , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will probably do so on the A50 , where you will most likely end up in congestion — do not worry : that be something I be work on with the Roads Minister , who happen to be on the Front Bench — but eventually , you will end up in the town of Uttoxeter . Uttoxeter be a beautiful and proud town with a rich history of agriculture and manufacturing , and be home to Uttoxeter racecourse . in the short time I have be Uttoxeter ' s MP , I have hear several quite strange pronunciation of the town ' s name from hon . member . local people , however , fondly refer to the town as at " Utch " or " Utcheter " — I apologise to the Hansard reporter for the difficulty I have just cause . in Rocester we find the iconic yellow digger of JCB , which be headquarter and have several factory in my constituency . I be proud of the ingenuity and innovation that we have locally , and I will continue to stand up for british manufacturing during my time in this House . as this government put service back at the heart of public life , there be so many of my constituent who go out of their way to help other , volunteer in food bank and youth club and run community activity . I have be humble to visit some of these group , from the BAC o ' Connor Centre to the Sexual Abuse Rape Advice Centre , Burton YMCA , Burton HOPE , Uttoxeter Heath Community Centre and the Community Church , and I look forward to visit many more during my time in this House . before be elect I be a communication officer for Nottinghamshire Fire and Rescue service , and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to all my former colleague and to this country ' s firefighter , control and support staff for the dedicated work they do to keep we safe . I look forward to continue my association with the Fire Service in Parliament . upon take up my role in this House , I sadly leave my role as a Unison workplace trade union rep , but it be with great pride that on Monday I vote for the Employment Rights Bill , which be just one part of Labour ' s new deal for work people . I believe that that Bill , like the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 , will be one of the landmark piece of legislation by a Labour Government . it will transform the life of worker across the country , strengthen their right , ensure fair treatment and restore balance in a system that have too often be skew against work people . as a proud trade unionist , I will continue the fight for work people in this House , ensure that their voice be hear and secure the right they deserve . I thank my constituent for the honour they have give I of serve they . every day that I be in this House , I will work to serve they to the very good of my ability .