Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Tax System : fairness what recent step he have take to ensure fairness in the application of the tax system . regard fairness , we have a progressive tax system where the top 5 % of income tax payer pay nearly half of all income tax , while the top 1 % pay more than 28 % . in addition , the national insurance reform announce at the autumn statement cut taxis for 29 million people . that package also strengthen the fiscal position by help taxpayer to get their taxis right , while bear down on the small minority who seek to avoid pay their fair share . the Minister talk about tax cut , but in April most household in this country will receive a 5 % increase in their council tax . that be not because local council have mismanage their finance , but because after 13 year of austerity , the local government finance system be essentially break and rely on a regressive and unfair council tax . why in the autumn statement do the Chancellor freeze the budget of the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities for the whole of the next Parliament , lead the Office for Budget Responsibility to forecast a furth £ 13 billion rise in council tax ? do that not show that the Chancellor have no regard at all for council and the service they provide , or be he simply defer a problem that his Government have create for the next government to sort out ? I be afraid that be a ridiculous characterisation . we on this side of the House care , include about our vibrant , important local council . that be precisely why they just receive an additional £ 600 million , and future spending will be a matter for future fiscal event . I be a strong believer in fairness in taxation . would my hon . friend care to advise the House about who would bear the heavy burden of taxation , should his Majesty ' s Government choose to adopt the £ 28 billion spending commitment that the Labour party announce on the radio this morning ? my hon . friend make an important point . of course , we never know from day to day exactly what labour ' s policy be , and I understand there be even difference among its Front Benchers at the moment , but we hear a firm commitment , without any promise at all about where the money would come from . we therefore know where it would come from : it would come out of taxpayer ' pocket or further borrowing , which be defer taxation . everybody will pay for it . I call the shadow Minister . the Labour party have set out clear proposal to close tax loophole on non - dom , private school and private equity to give a much - need boost to our public service . will the Treasury Minister confirm whether the Government have assess , or plan to assess , the merit of such a policy ? I be pleased to hear the hon . Gentleman ' s enthusiasm for close down tax loophole and go after the abuser . it beg the question why Labour do not vote in favour of the Finance Bill last night , which include measure along those line . that be a short answer , but the answer to the wrong question — perhaps the Minister can have a second go . while he be think about the answer , I point out that the Comptroller and Auditor General have highlight that the Government be waste up to £ 28 billion a year on mismanage procurement and governance of major project . do the Minister agree that the Conservative Chancellor and his predecessor have have to raise taxis so much partly because they be waste so many billion of taxpayer ' money each and every year ? the reason we have have to raise taxis be £ 350 billion of support during the pandemic , which I do not hear the opposition oppose , and an additional £ 100 billion to help people during the cost of living crisis , which I do not hear the opposition oppose . we therefore have to increase taxis out of necessity , but we reduce they out of choice , which be exactly what we be do . labour increase taxis out of necessity and then continue to increase they out of choice . economic Growth in Scotland : Tax policy if he will make an assessment of the impact of his Department ' s tax policy on economic growth in Scotland during this Parliament . the Government remain committed to increase economic growth in Scotland and right across the UK . as part of 110 growth measure in the autumn statement 2023 , the Government introduce tax policy that be project to stimulate economic growth in Scotland and across the country . that include make full expensing permanent and the large ever cut to employee and self - employ national insurance contribution , which mean more people work . the EY Independent Treasury Economic Model Club forecast publish yesterday find that the UK ' s growth forecast of 0 . 8 % this year be only slightly outperform by the even more disappointing 0 . 7 % growth in Scotland . give this Parliament have hike taxis 25 time , and the Scottish National party now think that those on modest income in Scotland should pay even more tax , do the Minister agree that the people of Scotland be simply pay the price for two government with no economic credibility ? no , I do not agree . the hon . member should be aware that the OECD suggest that in the come year we will be grow fast than France , Italy and Germany . of course , the Government have a strong track record against our OECD friend over the last 14 year , and Scotland benefit from this economic growth . as in Scotland , business rate be devolve in Wales . with business rate relief set to fall from 75 % to 40 % , business in Wales will pay almost twice as much as in England . do my hon . friend agree that the Welsh Labour Government should be support local business such as the Kinmel Arms in Moelfre and not increase the number of Senedd Members by a staggering 60 % ? my hon . friend put it well . of course , we have see the considerable protection and support give in retail , hospitality and leisure business rate relief in England . that have not be extend to the same extent in Wales , and Scotland fail to extend it as well . she make an important point . we go back to Scotland : I call the SNP spokesperson . contrary to what the Minister say , OECD forecast show that the UK will have the low growth in the G20 and the high inflation in the G7 . minister like to pretend that there be no real cost of living crisis , but there be one , and it be bite hard . how long will Ministers — and their Labour counterpart — continue to peddle the fantasy that Brexit be somehow good for the scottish people ? I be afraid that the thing that would most impoverish the people of Scotland be separation from the UK . after 16 year of SNP rule — long than the Conservatives ' in England — GDP per head in Scotland be low , productivity be fall , employment be low and inactivity be high . that be not exactly a proud record . the Minister talk about GDP . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that GDP in the UK will be 4 % low in the long term due to Brexit . meanwhile , independent Ireland in the EU be boom with a giant fiscal surplus . give that the Tories , Labour and the Lib Dems be all now champion of Brexit , be it not the case that the only way for Scotland to rejoin the EU be through become an independent country ? the hon . Gentleman know that the IMF have forecast we great growth than France , Italy and Germany over the next few year . if he be so enthusiastic about support growth , include help business across the United Kingdom , perhaps Scottish National party member could have join we in the voting Lobby last night instead of vote against , for example , full expensing and investment in research and development . they vote against that — how on earth be that in the interest of their constituent ? business investment : fiscal Measures what fiscal step his Department be take to help increase the level of business investment . Mr Speaker , may I add my comment to yours yesterday about his Majesty the King ? I wish he and his family well , as well as salute his courage in be so open about his condition . at the autumn statement last year , I announce an ambitious growth package , which will boost business investment by about £ 20 billion a year . we be make full expensing permanent , which the CBI welcome as a game changer that will fire up the british economy . I also welcome those measure . business rate be among the big issue for small business in Meon Valley , so I welcome the Chancellor ' s £ 4 . 6 billion package of support in the autumn statement . however , follow covid , there be a number of empty office where landlord be still have to pay business rate . do the Chancellor have any measure to support those who be struggle with a lack of income to pay business rate ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the pressure cause by business rate . that be why in the autumn statement we introduce the 75 % discount for retail , hospitality and leisure . all I would say be that the reason we be able to introduce those large cut in business rate be that we do not embark on a spending spree of £ 28 billion a year , which be Labour ' s policy on Mondays , Wednesdays and Fridays , but not apparently on Tuesdays , Thursdays and Saturdays . I will try to be nice to the Chancellor , but he seem to be live in a parallel universe . if he come to Huddersfield and talk to my business and manufacturer , he would find they at the low ebb that I can ever remember . it be time that the stimulus be there to make people invest and create job . get on with it , Chancellor ! if that be be nice , I be relieved that I have not see the other type of question that the hon . Member ask . I agree that manufacturing be central to our economic fortune , which be why it be good news that last year we overtake France to become the eighth - large manufacturer in the world . but we have go even far : in the autumn statement , we announce a £ 4 . 5 billion manufacturing strategy to give further support to make our manufacturer the good in the world . yesterday , we have the pleasure of discuss the very many benefit from the autumn statement , include research and development grant and simplification of the tax code . however , I wonder whether the Chancellor might go a little far and see whether cut vat for the tourism and hospitality sector , perhaps by 10 % over five year , would be advisable to help the economy across the United Kingdom . my hon . friend be an assiduous supporter of the many pub , restaurant and shop in Devon , and I commend he for that support . we will , of course , keep all those measure under review ahead of the Budget . hair salon be a vital mainstay of our high street , but many employer be worried about the sustainability of their business ; a huge issue be their tax bill , with vat a significant concern , make further business investment very difficult . cut vat to 10 % would make an important difference to local business , high street and apprentice training . will the Chancellor look at do that to support all our local economy ? I will always look at anything that help business to grow and expand . I set up and run my own business for 14 year . can I gently say to the hon . Lady that it be slightly incongruous to argue for low taxis when the SNP have give Scotland the high taxis in the United Kingdom ? Loan charge : Bankruptcy if he will make an assessment of the potential impact of the loan charge on level of bankruptcy . I have hear the concern express by hon . member on the impact of the loan charge , and I have push his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs for firm assurance on the safeguard that it have in place . no one will be force by HMRC to sell their main home or access their pension fund early to pay their loan charge debt , nor have HMRC petitioned for bankruptcy , which would be only a last resort and be in nobody ' s interest . there be substantial support in place to help people in debt , include agree time - to - pay arrangement with they . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that answer and his engagement with the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group , include a meeting this evening with its officer . in an internal document that surface as part of the 2019 Morse review , HMRC admit to around 100 bankruptcy from the loan charge . can the Minister tell the House why that figure have never be give publicly by HMRC , and what the figure be today ? again , I thank my hon . friend for champion this area and his great concern for the human story behind the difficult circumstance result from some of these scheme . as I have say , I be constantly seek reassurance from HMRC on this matter , and my understanding be that where bankruptcy have occur , it have often be because of requirement outside of the loan charge , not from HMRC ; indeed , some people have declare bankruptcy of their own volition . however , if my hon . friend have evidence to the contrary , I would like to know about it . the original Treasury impact statement for the loan charge state that it would have no material impact on " family formation , stability or breakdown " , yet there have be countless divorce , family break - up , mental health breakdown and bankruptcy , and at least 10 suicide . that impact statement be grossly wrong , but also surely negligent . we now need a full investigation , include how and why Parliament be so mislead over the dangerous and unfair loan charge . I hear the House ' s concern about this issue , on which we have a debate not so long ago . of course , the suicide the hon . gentleman mention concern we , and independent review have take place . however , I want to provide the House and anybody listen with reassurance that the good thing to do if people have concern be to engage with HMRC , because very generous and long - term plan can be put in place to help people to repay . as I say , there be fear out there — there be a bit of scaremongere — that home be be take over or people be have to give up pension . that be not the case . engagement with HMRC to establish reasonable time to pay would therefore be reassure for many of the people who fear much bad consequence . my appeal be to engage with HMRC . the Government ' s approach to the loan charge have become a nightmare for ordinary people across the country who be the victim of mis - selling and face financial ruin . the torment and devastating reality be the clear possible proof that the Government need to think again . those face the loan charge ordeal can not bear to hear yet again that the Morse review be the final word on this matter . will the Minister finally agree today to commission a new , truly independent review ? we have an independent review in 2019 under Lord Morse . the Government accept 19 of its 20 recommendation . the review have take place , but as I have say repeatedly , I be challenge HMRC and listen to colleague . if action need to be take , I will take it , but I do not believe that there be a case for another review , because we have already have one , and the Government have already take action . homeowner with mortgage : support what step he be take to help support homeowner with mortgage . as the House know , the path to lower interest rate be through low inflation , which be why the Government be fully commit to support the Bank of England to get inflation back down to its 2 % target . if mortgage borrower fall into financial difficulty , our mortgage charter , which cover about 90 % of the market , include new flexibility to help customer manage their repayment , on top of the Financial Conduct Authority ' s rule on how lender must treat borrower . give that a lot of mortgage payer be suffer because of the rapid hike in interest rate , will the Government continue to talk to the Bank of England and mortgage lender to see what can be do to bring interest rate down ? that would help most people . I completely agree on the absolute need to drive mortgage rate down , which be why we be support the Bank of England ' s independent remit to bring interest rate down . we be also ensure that we do not do thing to make inflation bad , such as add £ 28 billion to Government borrowing , which would increase inflation . the rate for a two - year fix mortgage remain more than double the level of December 2021 . More than 900 , 000 borrower be set to see their monthly payment rise by £ 500 or even £ 1 , 000 a month . Government Ministers be have to resign because of increase mortgage payment . how do the Chancellor expect people in Scotland to cope with increase mortgage rate if his Ministers can not ? I would say two thing in response to the hon . Lady . first , the good thing we can do be to help people with the cost of living , not increase their taxis , as the SNP in Scotland propose , and to maintain — [ interruption . ] I will not get bore of say this . secondly , we maintain our support for the Bank of England drive inflation down . we have more than halve it . we will continue to do that , and interest rate will come right down . economic Growth forecast : 2024 and 2025 what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of economic growth forecast for 2024 and 2025 . we announce 110 growth measure in the autumn statement . take together with the measure in the spring Budget , the independent Office for Budget Responsibility say that they will have the big impact on output that it have ever measure in a fiscal event , increase gdp by 0 . 5 % by 2028 - 29 . the UK economy be set for slow growth than previously think . the International Monetary Fund predict that next year we will have the second bad growth in the G7 . in Scotland , the SNP have increase taxis , which we have hear about already , and scot now face six band . stagnation there be even bad , and business and household in my constituency need reassurance . will the Chancellor tell we what he will do to give confidence to people up and down the country that we will soon see economic growth ? may I gently correct the hon . Lady on the IMF ? it say that over the next four year , UK growth will be high than in Germany , France , Italy and Japan . I agree about SNP tax rise , but I point out that the liberal Democrats have some tax rise of their own . they want to increase capital gain tax , which would be incredibly damaging for Scotland ' s financial service industry , which employ thousand of people . have the Chancellor have the opportunity to look at the New Conservatives ’ budget proposal , a budget for family ? it have a six - point plan , with two point to help unlock growth , particularly for the many small , family - run business in place such as Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke . those plan to increase the vat registration threshold to £ 250 , 000 and to abolish the IR35 reform would surely help we unlock the growth of our great nation . I have be talk with my hon . friend about these issue recently . in fact , we be discuss increase the vat threshold only last night — such be the interesting evening I have in this job ! we will look seriously and carefully at any measure that help small business . they be the lifeblood of the country . cost of live what recent assessment he have make of the impact of increase in the cost of live on living standard . what step his Department be take to support household with the cost of living . the Government stand by household , with one of Europe ' s large support package , worth on average £ 3 , 700 per UK household , but we all know that the key to reduce cost of living pressure be to bring down inflation , which we have more than halve , deliver on the Prime Minister ' s promise . family in Luton and Bedfordshire , and indeed the rest of the country , be bad off because of 14 year of economic chaos and incompetence under the Conservatives . do the Minister concede that , even if the Government ' s inflation target be meet , family will still be pay £ 300 a month more for their household bill than they be just 18 month ago ? fourteen year of the Conservatives have halve unemployment and increase employment by 4 million . crucially , poverty be down : we have 1 . 7 million few people in poverty now than in 2010 , include 400 , 000 child and 200 , 000 pensioner . that be a legacy to be proud of . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s report on poverty in the UK in 2024 reiterate that , consistently , the demographic with the high poverty rate be child . although 29 % of the child in my constituency live in poverty , the Scottish Government be do what they can with their limited power via the scottish child payment . will the Chancellor and his team use their power to make a concerted and determined effort to tackle the scourge of poverty , which be so damaging to our child ? I reiterate : we have 400 , 000 few child in poverty now than in 2010 . in addition , the national insurance contribution cut that we have introduce have be show to cut child poverty dramatically . crucially , the lead indicator of whether a child be in poverty be whether their parent be in work , and that be what we have deliver over this Parliament — [ interruption . ] yes it be — it absolutely be . get more people into work will help to solve child poverty . the british public be still struggle with the conservative cost of living crisis , and the Government be now force up council tax . last week , for the first time in my life , a Conservative MP speak for I when he say : " there ' s almost no point chop £ 100 off tax bill nationally if you ' re add on to it with council tax . " Labour Members agree with the hon . member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) . do the Chief Secretary agree with her hon . friend and colleague ? Council tax be a matter for council , but we put in place a limit , which I do not believe exist under the previous Labour Government . More than that , the most difficult thing for council and consumer more broadly be the £ 28 billion - worth of tax rise that Labour be plan in government . banker ' bonus : removal of Cap if he will make an assessment of the potential impact of remove the cap on banker ’ bonus on the financial sector . remove the banker ’ bonus cap be a decision make by the independent Prudential Regulation Authority , which have long say that the cap be completely ineffective ; it do not limit pay or make bank safe . the cap on banker ’ bonus might have be a great newspaper headline , but it do little to tackle the City ' s excess . financial institution quickly change remuneration package and structure so that risk taker still receive substantial pay - off , sometimes even take they through offshore mechanism . do the Chancellor agree that what we need be enhance regulation to mitigate excessive risk take in the square mile ? that could require , beyond merely cap bonus , a move toward an alignment of interest focus on the form of bonus payment , share allocation and defer amount , and robust clawback mechanism for those who have behave maliciously , in order to deter misconduct in the square mile more effectively ? I suspect that when the hon . Gentleman table his question , he be not expect that the big supporter of abolish the banker ’ bonus cap be not the Chancellor but the shadow Chancellor . I hear what he say , and indeed those be some of the reason we abolish it , because it be not work . if Labour be go to change its mind on that policy , may I ask — just to take a totally random example — when will it change its mind about the plan £ 28 billion of additional borrowing ? Non - dom Status : abolition whether he have make a recent assessment of the potential merit of abolish non - domicile tax status . the Government want the UK to have a fair but internationally competitive tax system , design to bring in talented individual and investment that contribute to the growth of the economy . Non - dom play an important role in fund our public service through their tax contribution . they pay tax on their UK source income and gain in the same way as everyone else . the Minister talk of fairness , but the fact be that during the cost of live crisis nearly a million more struggling pensioner will start pay income tax , because of the freeze in personal allowance rate , while the Government protect some of the rich member of society through non - domicile status . scrap that status could bring the Treasury an extra £ 3 billion a year . why do the Government not do the right thing and bring in that extra money to protect pensioner and the low pay ? Non - dom contribute about £ 8 . 5 billion in taxis in 2022 , and have contribute to investment to the tune of £ 7 billion since 2012 . the hon . Gentleman will be well aware that scrap their status would not be risk - free in a world in which people can be quite mobile , and could damage the UK ' s competitiveness . as for the need for other support , that be exactly why we have be reduce national insurance rate , for example . mortgage Interest Rates : impact on Disposable Income what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of change in mortgage interest rate during this Parliament on household disposable income . mortgage interest rate have fall by more than 100 basis point from their peak in the summer . none the less , the Government have prioritise support for household that be vulnerable to cost of living pressure . we have introduce one of Europe ' s large support package , and it be partly thank to those measure that real income have prove more resilient than be anticipate . in the third quarter of 2023 , real household disposable income per person be just 0 . 5 % low than in Q4 2019 , versus the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s autumn statement 2023 forecast that it would be almost 3 % low . I thank the Minister for his answer , but since his party ' s disastrous mini - Budget fiasco under the previous Prime Minister , food price have soar , extreme damage have be do to the economy and mortgage have skyrocket . every month 200 , 000 people be have to remortgage , the average monthly rate have rise by £ 240 , and 1 . 6 million people will have to remortgage this year . overall , after 14 year of a Conservative Government , people be more than £ 10 , 000 less well off than they be on pre - 2010 trend . be it not time that the Chancellor and his ministerial team look again at the possibility of additional support for those who be face mortgage and other financial distress ? the Chancellor be frown , but it be time that he take further action to support people in distress . this Government have introduce one of Europe ' s large support package , worth more than £ 100 billion during 2022 to 2025 . that be an average of £ 3 , 700 per household . the point about mortgage rate be that they go up everywhere across the world , to a high level than our in many jurisdiction such as the United States . I have already mention the work that we have do on the mortgage charter , help hundred of thousand of people to manage their mortgage , but the critical thing that we need to do be bring inflation down . she need to talk to her shadow Chancellor and the shadow Treasury team about their plan , which would make inflation high . order . I be not sure that " she " be a good word to use to other member . infected Blood Compensation : fund whether he have have recent discussion with Cabinet colleague on funding for a UK - wide infected blood compensation scheme . whether he have have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential cost to the Exchequer of compensation for people infect and affect by contaminate blood and blood product . this be an appalling tragedy , and my thought remain with all those affect . we understand the strength of feeling , and the need for action . the Government have accept the moral case for compensation , and have acknowledge that justice need to be deliver for victim . as such , the Government intend to respond in full to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation for wide compensation follow the publication of the inquiry ' s final report in May this year . the Minister ' s answer that question have bring forth another question . the Chancellor be previously Secretary of State in the Department of Health , and three of his former colleague all give a commitment to address the issue . now that the Chancellor be in a position to do something about that , how long be it go to take ? as this government ' s day be number , the difficulty I have be whether this will be in place before we have an election . will they ensure that the commitment be there ? I know that the hon . Gentleman have a lifelong friend who have suffer from this terrible tragedy , and I can reassure he that we be determined to do right by the victim and those who have tragically lose their love one . the victim of the infected blood scandal deserve justice and recognition . on his question on timing , government of all colour have fail to sort this out , but I be pleased that the interim payment at least have be pay . as I have say , the Government be commit to the moral case for compensation and we be expect the final report very soon . we will move as quickly as possible afterwards . we have have Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation since April 2023 . Mrs Dorricott , the wife of the Chancellor ' s constituent Mike , tell the inquiry that the Chancellor , when he be Health Secretary , tell Mr Dorricott : " Don ' t worry about this , we ' ll sort it . " he be now the Chancellor , with his hand on the purse string , so will he now — through his colleague the Chief Secretary to the Treasury — confirm that the Government have identify the contingency to pay the compensation to the people hit by the infected blood scandal ? I can confirm that we be work with the Cabinet Office and the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that we can respond as quickly as possible once the inquiry report . small Businesses : support what fiscal step his Department be take to support small business . what fiscal step his Department be take to support small business . small business be the engine that drive our economy and we support they to thrive use lever right across Government . our small business rate relief mean that one third of business property in England already pay no business rate . we provide tax relief benefit small and medium - sized enterprise , such as the annual investment allowance and employment allowance , and we support investment in sme through British Business Bank programme and a variety of other support measure . what consideration have be give to reduce employer national insurance contribution to help small business to sustain employment follow the record increase in the national living wage from April , particularly in the tourism and hospitality industry ? my hon . friend and I have speak about these policy area on a number of occasion . in term of support small business , the employment allowance enable business with employer national insurance contribution bill of £ 100 , 000 or less to claim up to £ 5 , 000 off those bill . that be increase in April 2022 from £ 4 , 000 to £ 5 , 000 , so the small 40 % of business have already be take out of pay employer national insurance contribution , and many of those be in the hospitality and leisure sector . we always keep policy under review , and I know that my hon . friend will always be lobby on this issue . become an entrepreneur in this country have become increasingly purgatorial over the past 25 year . do the Minister agree that what small businessman want be not more handout and allowance from the government but low , simple and flat taxis , and less regulation not more ? they want the Government to get off their back and shove off . that be very interestingly put by my right hon . friend . I completely agree with his instinct , though , and those instinct be completely share on the conservative Benches . when we be able to reduce tax and release the entrepreneurial spirit , independence and innovation that exist right across the UK , the country thrive and all of we thrive . in 2020 , the former Chancellor set a public sector net investment target of 3 % of gdp , but that be abandon after the 2022 debacle and today we have the second low business investment among advanced economy , partly because of that failure on public sector net investment . can the Minister offer we any reassurance on the future trajectory of public sector net investment ? of course , Labour leave we in pretty terrible financial circumstance back in 2010 . instead its figure be up £ 28 billion in real term at the start of the next Parliament , an increase of 40 % in real term or 7 % annually — the big ever publish . small business be the backbone of our economy , but they have a constant problem with late payment , which increase by 7 % last year , and that be drive many of they into insolvency . give that the Government be a major contractor , what be they do through project bank account to reduce the impact of late payment ? the hon . Lady make an important point , and I know there be agreement on this issue across the Chamber . we make statement last year along those line , put particular pressure on the public sector . I be sure there will be continue pressure on the private sector , too . Financial Services : growth Support what step his Department be take to support growth in the financial service sector . the Government be take ambitious step to grow the UK ' s world - lead financial service sector , with widespread industry support . to take one example , reform to Solvency II will help to spur a vibrant , innovative and internationally competitive insurance sector . the reform will unlock £ 100 billion - worth of productive investment to grow the economy in every constituency over the next 10 year . I thank my hon . friend for his answer but , clearly , to grow the financial service industry , investor must have confidence that their money be safe . I have write to he about the Woodford equity scandal , of which there be many thousand of victim across the country . the Financial Conduct Authority refuse to intervene , so will he now intervene and take action to ensure that the investor get at least a large part of their money back ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , for write to I and for stand up for the right of his constituent . it be important the House know that over 90 % of investor vote to accept the scheme of arrangement . it be now up to the court to decide whether to approve it , and I therefore will not comment on it any far . I be happy to be in constant dialogue with he on this matter , as on many other . as the Minister know , the Northern Ireland Assembly sit for the first time today to make a change for Northern Ireland . we would very much like to be part of the financial service sector , so what can he and the Government do to support the Northern Ireland Assembly in relation to the financial service sector , and to ensure that we in Northern Ireland can be part of this great country of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? always well together . I strongly echo the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment . I be very happy to engage with he and his colleague from Northern Ireland to see what more I can do in the Treasury to work with he and , indeed , the Northern Ireland Executive , particularly to encourage our financial service institution to invest more in Northern Ireland . I be very happy to discuss way in which we can do that . Regional Economic Inequalities : fiscal Steps what recent fiscal step he have take to help tackle regional economic inequality . this Government be commit to support all part of the United Kingdom . in October we announce the £ 1 . 1 billion long - term plan for town , which give 55 town up to £ 20 million of endowment - style funding . we be deliver an ambitious programme of investment zone and devolution deal , we ae continue to support local growth through the UK share prosperity fund and we be invest billion to improve local transport connection in our region outside London . by their own measure , the Government be fail on almost half of their levelling - up mission in the east of England . meanwhile , the Cambridge sub - region , which be a net contributor to the Exchequer , have vital transport project on hold or await finance . when will the Treasury stop stall growth and give power back to the region , which know well what need to be do in their area ? this Government be commit to level up by boost growth , raise living standard and spread opportunity throughout the country in several different way . the hon . Gentleman talk about give more power to local area , and he will know that the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Combined Authority be get a £ 97 million devolution deal . he will also know that Cambridge receive some £ 14 million as part of the share prosperity fund to spend on local project . I reject his assertion ; the people of Cambridge be benefit from this Government . the way to reduce regional inequality be to ensure that growth happen everywhere across the country . one way to do that be to support small and medium - sized enterprise and community enterprise , which be particularly locate in under - serve region . I commend the Government for the recovery loan scheme , which have be a lifeline to many small business and community enterprise . can the Minister tell we whether that scheme be likely to be renew ? hundred of million of pound of private investment be wait on the Government to make a decision . my hon . friend have a long history as a great champion for community organisation . I will write to he on his specific question . National Living Wage what recent progress he have make on raise the level of the national living wage . the Government be commit to end low pay . from 1 April 2024 , the national living wage will increase by 9 . 8 % , to £ 11 . 44 . that represent an increase of more than £ 1 , 800 to the annual earning of a full - time national living wage worker and it be expect to benefit about 2 . 7 million worker . I congratulate the Government on increase the national living wage , because that will make a huge difference . however , after speak to not only those in the public sector , at the like of my local Leicestershire County Council and Hinckley and Bosworth Borough Council , but small business in the private sector , I know that there be a trade - off , because they have to foot that wage bill . what step can the Government take to make sure that those business and the public sector have the money to pass on to those who be earn so well ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I will take the two part of it in turn . the Government continue to support business with the high cost through a generous package of support . at the autumn statement , we show our commitment to support small business by extend the 75 % retail , hospitality and leisure relief , and by freeze the small business multipli , which will protect more than 1 million property from the multipli increase . yesterday , we announce a wide - range package of support worth £ 600 million for local council , include £ 500 million of new funding for social care . I understand that concern be express some year ago about how a significant increase in the minimum wage may well have a knock - on effect , particularly on the hospitality sector . give that that do not come about with previous living wage increase , will the Chief Secretary commit her Government to ensure that future increase will be monitor closely to enable and assist small business to increase wage level systematically and sustainably over the long term ? I can commit to the hon . Gentleman that we be absolutely monitor the effect , but , as I say , a good package of support be in place for business . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I would like to update the House on a couple of datum release publish since our last oral question . total greenfield foreign direct investment since 2010 have not just be high than that of France , Germany and Italy , but in the past two year have overtake that of China to be the second high in the world . yesterday ' s labour force survey say that unemployment fall to a quarterly average of 3 . 9 % , mean that unemployment have halve and conservative government have oversee the creation of more than 800 job every day since 2010 . can the Treasury find fund for an increase pay offer for junior doctor ? I completely agree that we must safeguard the public finance and have regard to affordability , but if ever a group deserve a pay rise , it be junior doctor , and we need to get the dispute settle . as my right hon . friend know , as Health Secretary I campaign for extra money for the NHS to make sure that we could pay NHS staff fairly , but I do believe that junior doctor have have a very fair offer — one that be high than be recommend by the independent pay review body and be about double the rate of this year ' s predict inflation . I know that the Health Secretary be willing to talk about anything else that could help make their working condition well . I call the shadow Chancellor . last week , at Prime Minister ' s question , when ask about the Tory mortgage penalty , the Prime Minister boast that someone come off a fix - rate mortgage " will be able to save hundred of pound . " — [ Official Report , 31 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 857 . ] but the small print be that they have to add many year to their mortgage . three million people have be come off fix - rate mortgage deal this year and last , so do the Chancellor agree with the Prime Minister that british homeowner have never have it so good ? the way we be help family with mortgage be not just through the mortgage charter , which be a lifeline to many family , but by bring down inflation . we have be have a few pop about labour ' s confusion about its £ 28 billion policy , but the real reason we be against it be that go on a borrowing splurge push up inflation , push up interest rate and make mortgage more expensive . it be under a Conservative Government that interest rate , inflation and mortgage cost have go up . the Government need to take responsibility because , after 14 year , this out - of - touch Government be make it hard for ordinary people to get on . if the Chancellor decide to campaign in next week ' s by - election , what will he say to the 3 , 100 people in Wellingborough who be remortgage and pay £ 210 more on their mortgage every month , and to the 2 , 800 people in Kingswood pay £ 270 more a month because of the conservative mortgage penalty ? what I will say to they be that responsible , difficult decision , the vast majority of which the shadow Chancellor oppose , have see the inflation rate more than halve and interest rate likely to have peak . last year , we build more house in one year than in any single year under the previous Labour Government . we be do everything we can to help bring down mortgage rate , but a £ 28 billion borrowing spree will make they bad not well . in 2011 , the Government quite rightly set up the fund to compensate victim of the Equitable Life scandal . notwithstanding the fact that the Government do not give they enough money , we know that the fund will not be fully spend on the people be compensate . will my right hon . friend ensure the fund be use for the benefit of the people who suffer in the scandal , rather than be return to the Treasury ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and I will write to he with the specific of the answer . many of my constituent whose life have be destroy by the loan charge scandal feel the central injustice be that the Government be focus on pursue the victim rather than the company responsible . they be dismay to read recent allegation that individual link to such company have donate hundred of thousand of pound to the conservative party . will the Chancellor confirm why exactly the Government be ignore the provider and operator of the scheme ? how many have be prosecute specifically for their involvement in disguised remuneration , and not for other misdemeanour ? eighty - five per cent of the fund recover from the loan charge so far — about £ 3 . 9 billion in total — have come from the employer , therefore those who be run those scheme , so the hon . Lady be mischaracterise where we have go so far . there have be one criminal conviction so far ; other be in place . I repeat what I say to the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , early : if they be that concerned about ensure we go after the wrongdoer , they would have vote with we last night in the Finance Bill . [ Official Report , 22 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 12mc . ] ( Correction ) at the meeting this evening , will the Financial Secretary review the injustice that prevent loan charge victim who have engage with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , but who can not agree with their assessment , have any access to a tribunal ? I know my right hon . friend have be campaign on the issue . I respect and appreciate the information he have provide , and his contribution to the debate . I assure he that I be in listen mode and look forward to the meeting this evening , because I want to ensure that I hold HMRC to account to make sure everyone involve be treat fairly and respectfully . last week , the International Monetary Fund join many other in urge the Chancellor to prioritise public spending and investment above tax cut . rather than seek to appease his Back Benchers with tax cut in the next Budget , will he finally deliver the level of public investment this country be cry out for , include in a nationwide energy efficiency programme that would shield household from volatile gas price , get their fuel bill down for the long term and create job ? or be he yet another one who be run scared of green investment ? I be sure the hon . Lady understand that I can not talk about what will be in the Budget ahead of the Budget because no decision have be make . I celebrate with she that the UK recently become the first major economy in the world to decarbonise by more than 50 % , ahead of France , Germany , Japan and the United States . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . if the Chancellor have an ambition to spend an additional £ 28 billion a year on something , will he explain to the House what level of tax that would impose on ordinary household ? I thank my hon . friend for ask that question . I be curious to know where that figure of £ 28 billion have come from , but as she have ask the question , I will tell she that , if we be to stick to the fiscal rule , as the Labour party claim it will do , to increase spending by £ 28 billion would mean increase income tax by 4 % or increase corporation tax , which Labour say it will cap , by 8 % . with winter still upon we and fuel bill still rise , Ofgem be advise that the level of domestic energy debt be approach £ 3 billion . when people can not meet their current bill , how can they possibly be expect to meet that level of arrear ? be it not time to fund a debt write - off scheme , as propose by National Energy Action and other fuel poverty campaigner , before hypothermia and misery worsen ? the Government continue to work with Ofgem . in fact , I meet the chief executive officer very recently . Ofgem continue to monitor the level of energy debt to ensure that consumer be protect . the hon . Gentleman will know that , last year , the Chancellor announce measure to ensure that household with prepayment meter pay no more than those with standard meter , and that be on the back of the energy price guarantee , which effectively pay 50 % of people ' s household energy bill . the Chancellor will be aware of a proposal from the World War Muslim Memorial Trust to establish a memorial at the National Memorial Arboretum , honour an estimate 750 , 000 Muslims who have fight for the british armed force , with ten of thousand of they pay the ultimate sacrifice . previous Budgets have support memorial that honour those who have give we the freedom that we enjoy . may I ask the Chancellor to personally consider this proposal and help make it a reality ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : we must remember and honour the sacrifice make by those of all nationality and religion who fight for our freedom , include , I believe , nearly 150 , 000 Muslims who die in the second world war . my official would be happy to engage with he to identify how good the Government can help make this vision a reality . business owner and high street business in Oswestry tell I that their big challenge be business rate . in his upcoming Budget , will the Chancellor consider a radical reform of business rate that put the high street on an even keel and on a level playing field with the online retailer ? over the past few year , we have help to support our high street by freeze multiplier and , importantly , target further relief at the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . frequent revaluation be now par for the course , because of the recent change we have make . last July , follow a debanking scandal , I write to the Economic Secretary to the Treasury about the risk of implement so - call diversity , equity and inclusion policy . far from be inclusive , their implementation have often be divisive , yet labour put such policy at the heart of its financing and growth strategy just last week . will my hon . friend assure we that he will give clear direction to the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority to avoid all the risk of so - call DEI policy ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be study those policy carefully . I be concerned about certain aspect of what be propose , and I will be discuss the matter with the PRA and the FCA to make sure that we have sensible policy on this matter . at the autumn statement , the Chancellor announce that he would explore sell off the Government ' s remain stake in NatWest this year . as it stand , do he anticipate that this will result in a well or bad return for taxpayer , compare with the previous sale ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . indeed , the Chancellor announce at the autumn statement last year that , over the next 12 month , the Government will consider sell share in NatWest . that be all subject to value - for - money concern and other matter , as he will appreciate , and it be market sensitive . of course value for money will be at the heart of any consideration of the sale of share , and the House will be keep fully inform over the come week and month . my right hon . friend and his colleague will be aware of the challenge that business and household face in coastal community . as the Budget approach , may I urge he to be ever mindful of how we maintain the vitality of the economy in our coastal area ? I absolutely will ; that be a core part of the levelling - up agenda , and my hon . friend will be pleased to know that , since we start on that agenda , two third of all new job create have be outside London and the south - east . we will continue to look at any proposal he may have in that respect . the Government have deliberately create a funding model for university in which they be dependent on income from international student . do the Chancellor share my concern about ensure that nothing be do to undermine that income ? the university sector be one of the jewel of this country and I be proud that we have four of the world ' s top 20 university . I be happy to look at any individual proposal from the hon . Gentleman . last June the Exchequer Secretary announce the energy security investment mechanism , and I welcome the announcement in last November ' s autumn statement that the floor price would rise with inflation from April . how and when will that be legislate for , and will he look at alternative way of set that floor price , other than the 20 - year reference period that be already use ? the energy security investment mechanism be design , as my hon . friend point out , to give more certainty not only to the oil and gas sector , but to investor , ensure that the energy profit levy be disapplied when price return to historically normal level . to provide additional certainty , on the back of urge from he and the industry , we have agree to legislate for ESIM and will be announce that shortly . regardless of what the Chancellor tell we , the reality remain that people in Bradford be bad off after 14 year of this Government . Healthcare , GPs and dentist be less accessible , home be more expensive , cold and riddle with mould , job be less secure and badly pay , with stagnate wage , and household saving have be wipe out by rise food , water , energy and fuel bill . ahead of the last Budget he will deliver before the general election , will the Chancellor apologise for 14 year of disaster that have devastate our community ? let I tell the hon . Gentleman some positive message he can take home to his constituent in Bradford : violent crime and burglary have be halve , school standard be up , the NHS have more doctor and nurse than ever in history and real after - tax income for people on the minimum wage or national living wage be up by 30 % if they be work full time . can my hon . friend tell I how many staff be now employ across the eight Departments base at the Darlington Economic Campus ? what progress be be make on name the new building " William McMullen House " ? I can tell my hon . friend that 750 staff be employ across all Departments at the Darlington Economic Campus . the Treasury ' s aim be to reach 355 full - time staff by March 2025 , and we be on track to meet that target . the official name of the campus will be decide close to the 2025 - 26 delivery date and will be consult on by the Government Property Agency , but we have hear very clearly his suggestion of William McMullen House , and we will consider that in due course . the Chancellor know jolly well that in April 2023 Sir Brian Langstaff make his final recommendation on compensation for those infected and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . the Chancellor also give evidence in July to Sir Brian and say that work be under way . in December , this House vote for a compensation body to be set up . I would like the Chancellor to answer my question , please , not a junior Minister , and explain exactly what be go on in the Treasury , what work be be undertake and whether there will be an announcement in the Budget . with great respect to the right hon . Lady , who have campaign formidably on this issue , I do not think she be give a fair representation of what the Government have do . I stand by every word I say as a Back Bencher , and as Chancellor I have try to do everything I can to speed the process up . she have not mention that the Government have already give £ 100 , 000 to the family affect . we have accept the moral importance of the duty to give compensation , and we will now work with colleague in the other place to make her amendment workable . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . last week , we see the lid lift off the secret empire of Tory Tees Valley Mayor Lord Houchen , and the 28 recommendation for improvement in the way he do business cover everything from poor decision - making and a failure to provide his board with proper information , to a lack of transparency and value for taxpayer ' money . yesterday , we learn that he have squander several million pound of that money in lose a needless legal action against PD Ports about access right . in the past , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have refuse to call in the National Audit Office to examine how the Mayor do business , opt instead for his own independent inquiry . give this late revelation , can you advise I , Mr Speaker , on how we can get the Levelling up Secretary to make a statement from the Dispatch Box about the late scandal , so that we can persuade he of the need to get the NAO in there to look at that colossal waste of public money and report his finding to Parliament ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I can assure he that I have have no indication that Ministers intend to come to the House to make a statement on that matter , but I be sure that the Table Office will be able to help and advise he on how to pursue it , so I know that he will not give up yet . bill present Support for Infants and Parents etc ( information ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sally - Ann Hart present a Bill to make provision for and in connection with the making available of information about support available for infant , parent and carer of infant , and prospective parent and carer , include report requirement relate to such support . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March , and to be print ( Bill 160 ) . Ministerial Severance ( Reform ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Emily Thornberry present a Bill to amend the Ministerial and other Pensions and Salaries Act 1991 in relation to grant to person cease to hold ministerial and other office ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Tuesday 27 February , and to be print ( Bill 162 ) . Social Energy Tariff Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a social tariff for energy . during the autumn statement of 2022 , the Government commit to develop a new approach to consumer protection in energy market in order to consider the good option , include social tariff . that commitment have be repeat multiple time since , include by the Prime Minister . in April 2023 , the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero reiterate that pledge by promise to consult on a social energy tariff in the summer of 2023 . however , despite multiple commitment , and to the frustration of many , a consultation never materialise , and as we be now in February 2024 , there be a significant risk that no new protection will be in place this year . all the while , low - income and disabled household have struggle to heat their home over the festive period and the cold snap in January — and winter be not over yet . I be introduce this Bill in an attempt to fight for protection for the most vulnerable in society . by their continue inaction on this matter , the Government continue to disregard the real and immediate concern of many people . the great need for a social energy tariff be well demonstrate by the wide and varied support for its implementation . disability group , debt advice group , politician from across the political spectrum , consumer group , local authority , housing provider , Ofgem and even energy company be in favour of one . such be the united front on this vital issue that it be even more surprising that the UK Government have fail even to hold the consultation that they promise . they have continue to bury their head in the sand , despite the fact that National Energy Action , Energy Action Scotland , Age UK , Scope , Citizens Advice , MoneySavingExpert and 150 other organisation , as well as MPs , write to the Prime Minister in September call for the promise consultation on a social energy tariff . now we be into 2024 , and the situation be catastrophic for low - income household . I thank the many organisation that have provide briefing on this topic both for my debate in November last and once again today . you may ask what a social energy tariff be , Mr Speaker . admittedly , many different organisation and group have slight variation in their approach to such a tariff , but in its most basic form , which be universally agree upon , it be a system of target support through a reduction in energy bill for vulnerable , low - income and disabled household , in response to incredibly high energy bill . as one in three household will spend more on energy bill this winter than they do last winter — a figure that be close to half for the poor household — the need for a social energy tariff can not be stress enough . Citizens Advice research show that energy bill be 61 % high than in 2021 , while other research suggest that high energy bill will become the new normal for the rest of the decade . that highlight the desperate need for more meaningful long - term support . when I hold a debate on this topic in November , I be hearten by the cross - party support and atmosphere in Westminster Hall as member from across the political spectrum present a united front on this matter , each raise the need for long - term , target support for the most vulnerable household . I be then immediately dishearten by the lack of a meaningful response from the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Derby North ( Amanda Solloway ) , and now — over two month on from that debate , and 14 month on from the Government ' s initial call for a consultation — we be no far along . government Members highlight that energy bill have fall from last year , but that do not paint a picture of the reality for many . even though we be tell that the energy market have stabilise , bill remain sky high , and winter 2023 - 24 be project to be much bad due to the huge level of energy debt accrue last year . Ofgem and Citizens Advice research show that energy debt be at the high level ever , and Ofgem ' s chief executive officer , Jonathan Brearley , have say that " we think there be a case for examine , with urgency , the feasibility of a social tariff " . in the absence of an energy bill support scheme this winter , many people have have to once again choose between heating and eat . some condition require the constant charging of essential lifesaving equipment , such as oxygen concentrator or feeding pump . it be dreadful that , in the UK in 2024 , some household have be force to self - disconnect , but that be simply not possible for many disabled household , as they would not survive . a coalition of charity — Age UK , Scope , Fair by Design , Mencap , the Motor Neurone Disease Association and Sense — warn that the cost of living crisis be still add huge pressure to household finance , with million face the dilemma of how they be go to pay their energy bill . around one in eight household in the UK — that be 12 % of household , or 3 . 4 million — be experience fuel poverty this winter . Marie Curie share with I the thought of Rhian , who be terminally ill : " People with terminal illness feel the cold so much more than the healthy and need to heat their home . People with terminal illness still have mortgage or rent and bill to pay . there be no specific benefit offer to help terminally ill people so they have to carry on work with debilitate symptom . I live with incurable terminal cancer . my monthly heating bill be currently more expensive than my mortgage . " a social energy tariff be the good way forward . that tariff must be in addition to the warm home discount and the default tariff price cap ; it must be target at the needy and go beyond the benefit system , as National Energy Action have estimate that approximately two third of fuel - poor household do not receive any social security payment . all eligible consumer should be auto - enrol use supplier ' exist datum and / or datum share by the Department for Work and Pensions , and the tariff must reduce cost for consumer to pre - crisis level . we all know that a social tariff will cost money , so it be essential that those cost be meet in a progressive manner . if not , the tariff risk create a significant cliff edge , with those who narrowly miss out be much bad off . National Energy Action , Citizens Advice and Centrica all say that an energy social tariff should be fund by general taxation to ensure the great level of fairness . if that can not be do , low - income household on the fringe of support must be exempt from pay towards the social tariff . the Government have say that the new round of oil and gas licensing would raise money to reduce bill . a social tariff would have numerous economic benefit ; it would also offset cost , as illness bring on by have a cold and damp home cost the NHS between £ 500 million and £ 1 . 4 billion a year . far , increase spending power could boost local economy , with more money spend on our high street . million of the most vulnerable household and organisation span all of civil society be shout from the rafter for the implementation of a social energy tariff , and the Government can not and must not continue to bury their head in the sand . a society should be measure by how it treat its most vulnerable , and this Government , through inaction , be continue to fail the most vulnerable household right across the country . there be 4 , 950 excess winter death last year in the UK that be down to people live in cold and damp house , and that be why we need this Bill . million of people can not wait any long , and that be why I be ask for support for this motion . question put and agree to . order , that Marion Fellows , Peter Aldous , John McDonnell , Cat Smith , Owen Thompson , Kirsten Oswald , Alison Thewliss , Patricia Gibson , Dave Doogan , David Linden , Alyn Smith and Drew Hendry present the Bill . Marion Fellows accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March , and to be print ( Bill 161 ) . opposition Day - [ 4th Allotted Day ] opposition Day Knife and Sword Ban before we begin the debate on ban knife and sword from UK street , I remind hon . member that , under the term of the House resolution on sub judice matter , they should not refer to any individual case that be currently before the court . I call the shadow Minister . 12 . 47 pm I beg to move , that this House condemn the Government for oversee a 77 per cent increase in knife crime since 2015 ; recognise the devastating impact that knife crime have on victim , their family and the wide community ; acknowledge that the Government recently announce measure to ban zombie knife and machete ; believe , nonetheless , that this legislation do not go nearly far enough , mean that a number of dangerous type of knife and sword will remain legal and available on UK street ; therefore call on the Government to address the shortcoming of the ban by extend it to cover ninja sword and consult on a further extension ; and far call for the Government to establish an end - to - end review of online knife sale and introduce criminal liability for senior management of website which indirectly sell illegal knife online . Ronan Kanda be 16 . he go to get a PlayStation controller from his friend , and be yard away from home when he be murder . he be murder by two teenager , who use a ninja sword . they have obtain that sword by buy it online , use someone else ' s ID to collect it . they stab he in a case of mistaken identity . this be a heartbreaking , tragic story of a young life lose , with a family trap in the most extraordinary grief , and we be here today because it be time that Parliament act to tackle knife crime head - on . seventy seven per cent . that be how much knife crime have rise since 2015 , accord to the late figure release by the Office for National Statistics and the Home Office in recent week . that equate to a staggering 48 , 716 violent and sexual offence commit involve a knife or sharp instrument in the past year . there be a huge human cost to this , with 261 life lose in the year up to March 2022 — the last complete datum available to we — and roughly four in 10 murder involve a knife or sharp instrument . for those carry a knife , almost half of case lead to no further action , with current rule allow those carry knife to escape further sanction by write an apology letter . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way because he be describe a situation that be virtually identical to the one we face in Scotland 15 - plus year ago . the initiative take by the then Strathclyde police force and the Scottish Government since have be a very different approach to tackle it — that of treat it as a public health and social problem , with a violence reduction unit . there be nothing in the hon . Gentleman ' s motion that I would disagree with , but it be like play whack - a - mole with the different sort of knife available . do not he agree that this issue require a much more fundamental and radical approach ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , and that will be part of my case , so I be sure I will be able to meet that test . it feel like most day we wake up to another tragic story of death and family tear apart . the most basic search online tell we it be all over the country — Bristol , Feltham , Warrington , Haverhill . my own community of Nottingham be rock last summer when my constituent Ian Coates and University of Nottingham student Barnaby Webber and Grace o ' Malley - Kumar be kill with a knife , and I stand with their family in their attempt establish the fact and failing in this dreadful case . thing be get bad , not well , and that mean more young life lose , more child draw into crime and more exploit by criminal . we know this have a huge impact on our society : hundred of family cripple by grief for murder love one ; life chance of young people squander ; potential leave unfulfilled ; and the criminal get away with it and go on to cause further misery . knife crime destroy life , devastate family and create fear in our community . that be why this debate matter . we must invest in our young people so that they be support to make the right decision in life , and we must come down hard on those involve in knife crime — real support , real consequence . under the Conservative Government and a conservative police and crime commissioner , Cleveland have the high crime rate in the UK , and only this weekend we see another serious stab a mile down the road from I in Norton village . we hear the Government try to talk the talk but the bottom line have to be that they be not take the necessary action . I be sure my hon . friend will agree . I share my hon . friend ' s view . he talk of a case in his community , and we be wake up seemingly so many day in every week with another case in another area in village , town and city . the public be rightly look for action from we , and that be what I will be set out in my explanation of this motion . I be glad the shadow Minister talk about " we " . I understand that this be an Opposition day debate and the Government will be criticise , but be it not the case that what the public — on the left and the right and the apolitical — be look for be cross - party consensus where it can be find in this place to deal with what be a very important issue , and that party politic should be set aside for great cross - party working ? do he also agree that stop and search have a part to play ? on machete and zombie knife , ban they be not the only solution , although it be a good place to start , but the most radical step be to work together . we have be clear throughout that when the Government bring forward proposal design to take this issue on we will give they our support . that be true of the forthcoming legislation on zombie knife , although we have concern about the scope , but there have to be action , and where there be not action it be our role to point that out . I think the right hon . Gentleman will find that in the tone and spirit of my contribution : we serve no one if we do not do that , but of course we will build consensus wherever we can , and I hope the whole House can get behind our motion today . it would be a key mission of a future Labour Government to make the street safe and halve knife crime within 10 year . recently , my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) and the Leader of the opposition unveil our plan to deliver this with a crackdown on knife crime today and a radical youth prevention programme , and this motion start to build that out . we be clear : no more loophole , no more caveat , no more false promise — we need a total crackdown on the availability of serious weapon on Britain ' s street . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment on this often heartbreake topic . my constituent Julie ' s daughter Poppy Devey Waterhouse be kill in her home with a knife already in her kitchen . currently , offender convict of murder who use a weapon already available at the crime scene have a start sentence 10 year low than those who bring a weapon with they . domestic violence murderer can bank on leniency . do the hon . Member agree that woman kill by knife already in the home need to see equal justice ? the hon . member raise an important point that need parliamentary scrutiny . we have an anxiety , as hon . friend have mention many time , that crime happen in domestic space be in some way deem less significant and that can be reflect in sentencing . this bear our parliamentary scrutiny . to turn to the motion , we want to see restriction on the sale of the most serious weapon , those with no functional purpose . since 2015 the Government have release 16 different press release about zombie knife but action have be slow to follow . we be pleased that two week ago we see the statutory instrument aim at take some of the knife and machete off the street , and , as I have say , we will support the Government in that venture , but I hope to hear from the Minister an explanation of why that be a ban not for now or a few week ' time , but for September , eight month away . this be an immediate problem that need more urgency ; where be that urgency and leadership ? he can be assure of our support , so let ' s get on with it . we also believe , as set out in the motion , that we should go far . we would broaden the ban to include a wide range of weapon and to toughen exist rule on serration and length . that would mean finally ban blade such as ninja sword , the weapon that kill Ronan Kanda . his incredible family be campaign for this , ably support by their Member for Parliament , my right hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) , and they be right : any ban on offensive weapon that would not have take off the street the blade that kill their son be insufficient . there be also an unintended consequence of leave out ninja sword . those who sell these weapon be indifferent to their customer and their customer ' intention . if colleague think I be overstate my case , they should just put into a search engine " zombie knife " or " ninja sword " and look at how they be market . if knife and machete be prohibit , these firm will just move on to push ninja sword at customer . this be a hole in the Government ' s plan and it must be plug . we can go far still here . many ban knife continue to be sell where young people can buy they and have they deliver to their home within a few day . we would introduce , and believe the Government should introduce , criminal sanction on the tech executive who allow knife sale on their online marketplace — not just Ofcom sanction as the Government have opt for , but proper criminal sanction to send a very serious message to these leader that if their platform be be use , and they be not actively make sure they be not be use , for the sale of dangerous weapon , there be go to be very serious consequence , not one that can be price in as the cost of do business . to add to that , we must ensure we have the right tool in law to deal with the digital age . to drive this work forward , our motion call for a rapid review of online knife sale from the point of purchase through to delivery , in particular look at strengthen ID and age check conduct by Royal Mail and Border Force for UK - bind parcel . currently , all too often serious weapon can be purchase online with loose id and age check , with little oversight , and with no background check . every time oversight be loosen and check be not carry out properly , these weapon potentially fall into the wrong hand and be use to kill . we must ensure we have the most robust system possible to prevent this . to those who carry these weapon , we need to send the unmistakable message that the law will come down hard on they — not apology letter , not weak warning , but proper and serious intervention . my hon . friend be make a great speech . will he support two parent in my constituency , Leanne and Mandy , whose child be kill by knife crime ? they be call for much strong sentence and great deterrence for knife crime ; do he agree with I and their family ? I be go to set out a few of they shortly , but I would be very interested in meet Leanne and Mandy , if my hon . friend could help facilitate that , to hear what more they might want to see . our commitment be for every offender to be refer to a youth offend team and have a mandatory bespoke action plan to prevent reoffende . as part of that we need tough new guidance so that serious penalty be always consider where appropriate , such as curfew , tagging and behavioural contract . too many of these be be overlook and insufficient sanction such as a letter of apology be use in their stead . that be wrong ; we need strong guidance from the centre on this . but speak to the point make by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , all of this on its own will not resolve and remove the issue of knife crime in our community . we must invest in young people , because prevention be well than cure . we need a total approach — not an either / or , but both . that be particularly germane to this debate , because we know that those who seek to profit from the sale of dangerous weapon shapeshift and adapt around legislation — that be one of the challenge . so we must tackle demand and tackle issue that mean that young people think they need to carry harmful weapon . build on the success of sure Start — the last truly transformative prevention programme for young child — we would create the Young Futures programme to help prevent violent crime . it would be a target programme in every area to identify the young people most at risk of be draw into violent crime and of buy these product that we be seek to restrict . we would build around they a package of support that respond to the challenge they face . as well as provide support to young people — I welcome the £ 100 million of exist funding to divert and support young people through preventive work — do my hon . friend agree that it be crucial to provide positive role model through mentor to every young person in the country ? I have work on that with the charity UpRising , which I have chair for many year . do he also agree that we should look at institution such as the Royal London Hospital and its trauma unit , which have work on the frontline deal with the result of knife crime , whether in hospital or out with paramedic ? we can draw on a great deal of knowledge to tackle this epidemic . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention , because she have do incredible work that be admire by I and the shadow Home Secretary . a lot of what I be about to talk about be base on that experience , because that work have be very good . the Young Futures programme will bring together service locally to well co - ordinate the delivery of preventive , evidence - base intervention around a young person that help to tackle mental health issue , substance abuse issue , and issue that people might get into with their friend and family . we will then bring that together in a national network that share evidence , deliver support for teenager at risk of be draw into crime across boundary and , where appropriate , could deliver universal youth provision . then , crucially — this speak to the point just make by my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) — we would build out from that , with youth worker in accident and emergency unit and in custody centre , and with mentor in pupil referral unit , to target young people who be start to be draw to violence . those be change moment , particularly in healthcare and custody setting . we know it might be the moment when an individual who be slide into serious violence , whether as a perpetrator or a victim , may need that intervention . it might be the moment where we can get that change in behaviour that will in many case save their life . that be why it be so crucial that we have this degree of investment into young people , because otherwise such measure will not work . the hon . Member make good point . as the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) point out , a lot of this work have be go on in Scotland . have the hon . member meet Medics Against Violence , whose " Navigator " project do exactly what he be talk about within a hospital setting ? it intervene through people with live experience to try to get young people into that frame of mind where they might want to exit that lifestyle and that violence they have get themselves into . there be clearly much that we can learn from the scottish approach . I have not have the opportunity to meet Medics Against Violence , but on the hon . member ' s recommendation I will seek to do that . we strongly support the idea of support and mentor in A & e and custody setting . the evidence show that would be highly effective . we need to end the exploitation of child and young people by criminal gang , and that include county line . we need a new criminal offence of child exploitation and a new serious organise crime strategy to go after those coward who make million off the back of exploit young people . to bring the change to deliver that , we need a new , proper cross - Government coalition to end knife crime , bring together those who have key role in tackle it and in keep young people safe , whether they be Ministers , community leader , faith leader , the family of victim , sporting body , tech company or young people themselves . everybody should be bring into this fight . that be the sort of Government that we would seek to lead , if give the opportunity . the hon . Member be make a passionate speech about bring various people from across Government and community together to tackle knife crime . when the shadow Home Secretary and the Leader of the opposition hold a summit in east London last year on knife crime , the Mayor of London , who be the police and crime commissioner , be nowhere to be see . can the hon . Member ask the shadow Home Secretary why ? I have to say I be a little sadden by that intervention . this be a deeply serious issue about which the public expect to hear answer . I do not think the public would consider the policing of the diary of the Mayor , the hon . Gentleman or anybody else to be part of a substantive solution . I write my note for his intervention ahead of time , because I know that 86 day before a mayoral election , the Tories be much more interested in try to fight that election than tackle the problem . if he really believe that be the approach — I do not , but it be for he to use his time as he choose — let we put that to the people of London . on the point about work together , perhaps outside this House , rather than inside it , may I say I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman — yes , I agree with his Majesty ' s opposition — on work together more cohesively with local authority , public body , health service and , in particular , around pupil referral unit and exclusion ? there be so many disparity throughout the country , and it make sense to bring everybody together to look at good practice . that be a hugely important intervention from the right hon . Gentleman . I have real anxiety about pupil referral unit , exclusion and internal exclusion . it be a problem prior to the pandemic , but what we be see with school absence only compound that . there be a risk of there be a generation of young people who be vulnerable to these type of behaviour , unless we take the field and fight for their heart and mind . the right hon . Gentleman and I be in the same position on that . I will draw my remark to a close , because lot of colleague have lot to say . the motion before we in the name of the Leader of the Opposition be tightly draft and call for three of the most pressing change that we believe be need to kick - start this process : the ban on ninja sword , with a consultation on further extension to the propose ban on zombie knife ; an end - to - end review of online knife sale ; and criminal liability for senior executive of those website who do not adequately prevent they from sell knife . we believe those be reasonable change that the whole House can get behind , and I hope the Government will take they seriously . they should support this motion today . the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire and I have be work on the Criminal Justice Bill Committee for many week , and we will be table change to enact those measure , and the Government should accept they . if they take up our idea before the Bill ' s next stage , we will support they , but we will not ignore the large - scale damage that knife crime be do across the country . the public be rightly look to we for leadership and action , and we stand ready to give they that . I be grateful to the Opposition for give I the opportunity to respond on behalf of the Government and to speak about our record on fight crime , include our work to get weapon off the street and stop they fall into the wrong hand , which be have a real impact . as my right hon . friend the Member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) say , we should remember what this debate be all about . he be absolutely right that it be not about party politic , point scoring , cheap jibe or sound bite , because the truth be that serious violence and knife crime leave the same trail of misery and devastation in their wake , regardless of the constituency we represent . the tragic reality be that many of we — in fact , far too many — on both side of this House will have have the humbling experience of sit with the love one of victim of crime whose life have be cut short in the most tragic way . there be little one can say in those circumstance that will ease the pain of lose a son , daughter , brother or sister . it be incumbent upon we all — by " us " , I mean the Government and the police , but also each and every one of we here who contribute to public life — to strain every sinew to stop other suffer as they have . I have also be in the situation in the past month of have to write to the mother of a 21 - year - old young man who be stab to death at Strawberry Hill station in my constituency last month . understandably , parent , teenager and other young people be raise concern with I about how we can tackle this huge increase . in London alone , as the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire will know , we have see an increase of almost a fifth in knife crime since 2022 . if we be to ban all these weapon , we need good intelligence - lead community policing , but in London since 2015 we have see our police community support officer cut by a third . what assurance can the Minister give my constituent that we will see an uplift in police officer , include in place such as Richmond upon Thames , which be often deprioritise because they be see as safe area ? no area be immune from knife crime . I agree with the hon . Lady ' s last point . give the representative in the Chamber , I think a lot will be say in the debate , and rightly so , in relation to crime and knife crime in London , include by she . it be right to say that every time somebody pick up a knife or another dangerous weapon , there be the potential for bloodshed , and every time somebody arm themselves , whether for protection or with violent intent , they risk ruin not only other ' life but their own life . that have be bring home time and again in the most devastating fashion in recent day , week and month . my thought and prayer be with the family and friend mourn such devastating loss . it be any parent ' s bad nightmare . that the victim be so often young people with their whole life ahead of they make it all the more unbearable . in our shock and our grief , we must remain steadfast in our conviction that we can get knife and other dangerous weapon off our street and that we can prevent young people from get draw into violent crime in the first place . in the spirit of the intervention that my right hon . friend the Member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) make on the shadow Minister , I would like to reflect on a debate before the recess lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) . during that debate , in which there be cross - party support , my right hon . Friend mention the Knife Angel in Aldridge - Brownhills , in the borough of Walsall . she also mention a campaign by the Brindley family , and the Brindley Foundation that be set up to bring about positive social action as a result of a tragedy . my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) make powerful intervention during that debate . it be right to look at the number and the late datum . the late datum on hospital admission of under - 25s follow an assault with a sharp object show a 25 % reduction since December 2019 . that be a good indicator — the most reliable indicator for serious youth violence . my right hon . friend the Policing Minister will in due course mention the crime survey , which show that violent crime have reduce by 51 % since 2010 . it be also right to say that nationally homicide have fall , but it be obvious that datum on a chart provide no comfort for victim ' family , and that any incident of serious violence or knife crime be one too many . that be why the Government be continually look at what more we can do to protect our citizen — especially child and young people — and drive those number down far . the police be on the frontline in this effort . force up and down the country be aware that this be an issue of significant public concern , and they be firmly committed to tackle it . it be right that I , as a Dorset Member of Parliament , mention our police and crime commissioner David Sidwick , and I pay tribute to he , the work he be do and the crime plan that he have put together for Dorset . thank to our recruitment drive , which have deliver the promise 20 , 000 extra officer , we have significantly bolster the police across England and Wales . with every additional officer , the ability of force to crack down on weapon carrying and violence be strengthen . that include through the natural deterrence that flow from an increase police presence . there be the add benefit of reassurance to all our community , who be clear that they want to see more officer on the beat . of course , it be about not just how many police officer there be , but what force do with the resource and power give to they . the Government have consistently and publicly back the police to take the tough possible stance when it come to address serious violence , knife crime and weapon carry . that include support the use of stop and search , which be a crucial tool . since 2019 , the police have remove 120 , 000 knife and dangerous weapon through stop and search surrender programme and other target action . on that specific subject , every knife seize through stop and search be a potential life save . in the year 2022 - 23 , stop and search result in about 74 , 000 arrest and remove over 15 , 000 weapon and firearm from our street . the significance of stop and search should not be downplay , because every knife or weapon seize be a potential life save . on criminal sanction , the motion table by the opposition — they will have to forgive I — be too generic , too sweeping and perhaps too adversarial . on criminal liability for the senior management of website that indirectly sell illegal knife online , however , what be the Government ' s current thinking — unless , perhaps , the Minister do not want to tell I — vis - à - vis the Criminal Justice Bill , on which I know he be work closely with the shadow Minister ? the Criminal Justice Bill be pass through Parliament , have have its Committee stage . I do not want to steal the thunder of the Policing Minister , who will wind up the debate on behalf of the Government , but I encourage my right hon . friend to be here for that . in the round , we have some of the tough knife crime law in the world . for example , it be illegal to carry any fix - bladed knife in public without a good reason , with such an offence carry a maximum sentence of four year in prison . the Offensive Weapons Act 2019 strengthen the law on the sale and delivery of knife to under - 18 . on tough sentence — I know that the Government be bring in very tough sentence for knife crime — do my hon . and learn Friend agree that it be not just about tough sentence ? Knife crime be due to a number of factor , include socioeconomic factor , gang activity , the county line drug trade , which affect we in Hastings and Rye , and social medium influence . do he agree that build trust between community and law enforcement be as important as effective community police and tough sentence , and that as part of that building of trust , raise awareness about knife crime and educate young people about the risk can deter they from carry weapon ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I will turn directly to violence reduction unit , which will help to address some of those point . the fact be , where gap or loophole be identify , we have show time and again that we will do what be necessary , and we will always put the law - abide majority first . my right hon . friend the Member for the Wrekin mention the Criminal Justice Bill , which be the late illustration of our unwavering commitment to that mission . it will give the police more power to seize dangerous weapon , create a new offence of possession of a bladed weapon with an intent to harm , and increase sentence for those who import , manufacture or sell dangerous weapon to under 18 . as my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) mention , as well as tough enforcement , an emphasis must be place on prevention . it go without say that the good thing we can do to make all our community safe be to stop these crime from happen in the first place . may I mention and develop my point on violence reduction unit , which bring together community and local partner to tackle the underlying cause of violence in the first place ? she will be interested to hear that violence reduction unit identify young people in danger of follow the wrong path , bring together key partner from local authority , the police , health , community and beyond to well understand the local driver of violence and provide intensive support through mentor programme and the like . I know that she and other hon . member — across the House , I hope — will support the work go on there . in addition , we have support the police in their implementation of the Grip hotspot patrol programme . take together , these initiative have prevent more than 3 , 200 hospital admission for any violent injury since funding begin in 2019 . this show the real - world impact that our approach be have as we strive relentlessly to break the deadly cycle of violence that rob young people of a future and destroy family . the Minister be make a powerful speech . do he agree that the good thing we can do be to put police station on our high street , such as in Maltby , Dinnington and Swallownest in Rother Valley ? I be sure he be aware that the Labour police and crime commissioner have underspent his budget this year to the tune of £ 3 . 5 million — money that could have be use to reopen police station and get they go . do the Minister back my campaign to use that underspent money to get police station on our high street ? my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for his community ; I know he will continue to champion this important issue and continue his campaign . I look forward to his further contribution , and I be grateful to he for raise that point . it be right that through the concerted effort of the Government , police and partner , we have show that this threat can be address , but we will not stop there . I thank the Minister for respond to this immensely important debate , but may I press he on the specific issue in the motion ? will the Government launch a new consultation on include ninja sword in the ban on online knife sale ? if he agree to that today , we would make a significant step forward . the right hon . Lady will know from my response that I refer to previously that the police have tell we the great risk be the criminal use of zombie - style knife and machete . that be action that be already be take , but we will , of course , keep the matter under review . we will not stop there : we will continue to think of the victim and their family , and reaffirm our commitment to get weapon and knife off our street . we can and must stop knife crime and make our community safe . that be what this Government will work tirelessly to achieve . I rise to speak conscious of the tragic death of two teenage boy stab in my constituency last week , and the very live police inquiry be conduct . my thought be with the family and friend of those boy , in particular during this debate . I be conscious that we have have many debate on this subject , and that there be many member present whose community have also be hit by similar tragedy , but lamentably those debate have not stem the rise in knife crime , as we see in my own community last weekend . over the past few month , regular meeting with the police be already be hold in Knowle West , set up by some amazing woman in the community . fortuitously , a meeting be hold on the Monday after the event , which I be able to attend , where people come together to express their grief and sorrow . there be a strong message at the meeting . the people there be very clear that they could see that event have be lead to a tragic outcome , and they want to know , where have the resource from their community go ? where be all the police on their street ? what have happen to their local healthcare and mental health service to support young people ? what have happen to their youth service ? what have happen to the council funding for service that make those street and community fit for live in , such as street cleaning , and make our community so vibrant ? despite the high - falutin ' statistic throw around in this place , those people know that their community have lose out . People in Knowle West and the rest of south Bristol , like those across the country , have see those service disappear because of political decision make in this place since 2010 . I be unashamedly political about that point , because those decision have consequence in our community . I pay tribute to Avon and somerset police for the preventive work they be do with those community before these tragic incident and for the way they have work since , and to Bristol City Council and organisation such as Youth Moves and Bristol City Football Club ' s Robins Foundation , which have be do amazing work for a long time , but particularly in the past couple of week . despite that , and despite work with the voluntary and community sector across Bristol , they can not fill that gap . the very clear message from that meeting , and indeed from our city , be that we be totally united in get these crime and these criminal off our street . however , we need much more than the basic . these community deserve the resource to help young people to thrive , and we owe it to the family of the boy who lose their life to do everything we can to ensure that it do not happen again . my constituent be look for answer on how we can prevent crime , but , as my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) say , we also need to give they action . we have to redouble our effort to bring Government support back into these community to enable our local authority , school and the police force to take the preventive measure we need to tackle knife crime . it be vital that there be tough consequence for those carry lethal weapon , and there must be sanction , but we also need early intervention to stop young people be draw into crime . as my hon . Friend say , the coward who bring young people into crime must also face strong sanction . work with the community , as the police be do in South Bristol , be vital to help to intervene on early criminal behaviour . however , we also desperately need Government support for youth service and mental health support in school to ensure that young people be safe . I pay tribute to all the school work so hard across south Bristol to ensure that young people be safe and encourage to go back into school and back out to live their life . young people need to be listen to and , crucially , have that stake in our society . that be why bring together local partnership of school , neighbourhood policing and community group be so important to prevent crime and tackle the crisis among young people . the community I represent across south Bristol need to know that we in Westminster understand the urgency and the devastating effect that knife crime be have . I hope the Government will do more to address the shortcoming of the current proposal by extend the ban to cover ninja sword and introduce criminal liability for the senior executive of the website that be still sell those weapon online . we need a properly resource cross - Government effort to tackle crime , with tough consequence for the perpetrator , support for the victim and a renew focus on prevention . a couple of week ago , I be sit in a meeting of an all - party parliamentary group in Parliament when I receive a call from my 17 - year - old son ' s school . it be unusual to get such a call , so I take it . his head of year inform I that he have be mug by several youth wear balaclavas and carry knife . you can imagine my feeling of utter shock and concern for my son , Mr Speaker . it suddenly dawn on I that I be not alone ; there be so many mum who receive that call . sometimes , that call be tragic , and those mum never get to see their son again — or their daughter , although it be quite often our son who be involve . I be relieve to say that it be a case of mistaken identity and my son have not be mug — he have witness the mug far up the street . however , it reiterate the fact that nobody be immune from knife crime . it be not a socioeconomic issue that affect only certain demographic , but can hit any family , as we have see in too many situation in this country over the year . it can be the kid of middle - class professional or kid from estate — it do not matter . Knife crime will affect every child who be out there . that be why we all have to work together to ensure that our child be safe when they go out . I be one of those mum who can not relax when my child be out until I hear that key in the door . I know I be not alone in that . this be not a modern phenomenon that be happen only now . it have happen for decade , and we must get a grip of it . eleven year ago , a 16 - year - old boy be slaughter in Pimlico in my constituency . Hani be attack by a group of young people and murder . five young man be sentence to 26 year at his Majesty ' s pleasure . it dawn on I that because Hani lose his life , his mother Pauline will never hear his key in the door . the life of the young people involve in that murder have also end , as have the life of their family . we must do more to ensure that child do not spend the rest of their life in prison . of course we do not want more victim , but those involve in such heinous crime often be victim themselves , because they be involve in county line or drug crime . we must deal with that . unfortunately , my constituency be a hotspot for the Met . it have the high number of knife or sharp instrument offence record in any borough of the Metropolitan police force . in the last 12 month , 1 , 930 knife offence be record in Westminster alone — an increase of more than 18 % on the previous year . the Office for National Statistics show that for the year end March 2023 , Sussex record 59 offence per 100 , 000 people — below the national average of 87 per 100 , 000 . we have see a 16 % reduction in knife crime for that period . in contrast , for the Met police — the highest funded force in the country — ONS figure show a 22 % increase in knife crime in London . that have a knock - on effect on all the surround county . do my hon . friend agree that the Labour Mayor of London Sadiq Khan should take a leaf out of the book of Sussex conservative police and crime commissioner Katy Bourne , and get a grip of serious knife crime — Order . if the hon . Lady want to speak , I will put she on the list of speaker , but her intervention be far too long and other want to speak . she have be here since the beginning of the debate , so I will certainly put she on the list if she wish . I agree with my hon . friend . as the large city in the country with more than 9 million people , London will always have high statistic , but it be be let down . londoner have constantly be let down for eight year because of the current Mayor ' s failure to get a grip of knife crime . too many family across London have be affect by knife crime and have lose their beloved child . there be 156 knife offence in December 2023 alone . that will not stop unless we get a grip of it . it have to be a holistic approach . it be not just about strict sentence ; they have a part to play in the criminal justice system , but we must get to the nub of why young people carry knife in the first place . I have always believe that someone who carry a knife be more likely to use one . I be so concerned that today , too many young people feel that they have to carry a knife for their own protection . we must persuade our young people that there be an alternative . we have hear about different approach from several member . we should learn from what be happen in Scotland , which have a lot to offer . we need a public health and community approach . when I be cabinet member for public protection at Westminster council in 2013 , I be shocked to find that Westminster — a borough that people think of as affluent , with area such as Mayfair , Belgravia and the west end — be no . 3 in the Met ' s serious youth violence table in 2013 . we be even high than Hackney . I remember go to see the then deputy Mayor for policing , now my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , who tell I that if I do not get on top of the problem immediately , it would only get bad , and it would never change . I immediately work with my brilliant officer at Westminster City Council and the police to establish the first ever integrate gang unit . I set up a scheme call " your choice " , because I want to send a message to young people that they have a choice : they could be involve in gang and knife crime , but that would end either in the morgue or in prison . there be alternative way , where young people could work with we . I be clear that we have to understand why young people be involve . I also send a message to the parent . often , parent do not know what their young people be get involve in when they be out , and they do not know how to handle the problem . I offer a help hand to parent . I be delighted to say that we go straight back down those table within a year to where we be usually , around 16th out of 19 . there need to be a full approach , where all the agency work together . the integrate gang unit include the police , probation , special need , school and social worker . interestingly , we discover that a lot of young people on the periphery of knife crime have speech and language issue . they could not properly communicate , and they have not really progress since primary school . they have have a nightmare move into secondary school , and they have be lose in the system . we grab those young man , and I be delighted that we improve the situation . we have to work together . it should not be a political issue but a community issue where we all work together , as our young people deserve . we have hear about violence reduction unit . we have one in London , run by a very impressive woman , Lib Peck , whom I have know for a long time . she be not get the backing and seriousness from the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan . in 2018 , he hold a knife crime summit just before the local election . the then Home Secretary attend , as do the Metropolitan Police Commissioner and the deputy Mayor for police . the Mayor chair it — he do not speak ; he be not hold to account . I will never forget that he never allow himself to be hold to account on the situation . he have get to be hold to account . we talk about accountability , but it work both way . I agree with everyone who have say that the result be not political , as it affect all political stripe , but we have get here because of political decision making . the hon . member talk about child not be able to speak or read or write — that be the political decision of 14 year of this Government erode our education system . we talk about not enough resource for the police — that be a decision to erode community policing . will the hon . member take some responsibility for 14 year of this ? I have to gently push back . we have come up from 25th in the PISA table under the previous Labour Government to 14th for read under the Conservative Government , which be an impressive result . I be sure that the Policing Minister will mention later that this Government provide the current Mayor of London with funding for 1 , 000 extra police officer , but he fail to recruit those officer and the money go back into the pot , to be give to other police force , which I be sure have take advantage of it . this be not a political issue . I take responsibility for the period in which I be leader of Westminster City Council when we cut youth service , and see a direct link to problem on the street . I put my hand up to that , and we put £ 1 . 5 million back into the pot . it be right that we make sure that young people have choice and the ability to do thing after school and college , and that we give they the good start in life . we be talk today about a knife and sword ban and the legislation that would be require . I find it quite incredible that manufacturer do not take the responsibility they should take , and that they can use loophole in legislation . they get away now with produce zombie knife without write on , because zombie knife with writing on be ban . I can not understand why anyone would want to manufacture zombie knife ; there be only one use for they , and that be not a use we want to see . I suggest that minister produce more flexible legislation that talk about " blade " , rather than focus on specific product . we need to widen the legislation to cover many exist and future product . it be also important that we look at other corporate , such as record label that willingly put out drill music , which often celebrate gang culture . there must be a direct link to young people feel that to carry a knife and to be willing to use it be culturally the right thing to do . I welcome this debate . it be important that we work together , across the party , to send a clear message to all young people that carry a knife be not a solution . every young person in this country , in whatever town , city or village they live , whatever their background , deserve to be safe . I be pleased that the opposition secure this debate today . it be an important debate and an emotional one for many of we , certainly for I . serious violence , include knife crime , be a critical issue in city , town and village across the country . it be important to acknowledge that it be not just a London problem ; it affect many constituency across the whole country . Knife crime alone have rise by 77 % since 2015 , and the impact be feel widely — not just the devastating and all too often fatal impact feel by immediate family and friend , but the trauma and distress feel by the wide community . in Batley and Spen , unfortunately we have feel at first hand the traumatic and life - change impact of knife crime . since my election , I have work with two extremely brave local family whose life have be tear apart by truly dreadful incident involve horrific attack with knife . Robert Wilson , from Birstall , be stab to death in January 2020 outside the factory where he work , just do his job ; the attack be carry out by two youth wield a samurai sword in what the judge call a " frenzied and senseless " assault . Robert ' s wife , Elaine , be a remarkable woman who have show incredible strength and selflessness follow this heinous attack . she be determined to raise awareness of the horror that knife crime inflict on family and community . despite her unimaginable personal pain , she speak to young people in school about her experience , to help they to understand the potentially life - change consequence of carry a knife . in June 2020 , just a few month after Robert be kill , Bradley Gledhill , a local 20 - year - old , be attack and stab to death in Batley by six young man , five of whom be teenager . this despicable attack on Bradley and on two of his friend , who be seriously injure , shake the community . it be unprovoked , rob a young man of his future and show the very bad of humanity . have meet his incredibly strong mum , Kelly Hubbard , and his sister , Bryony , I do not have the word to describe the trauma and devastation work upon Bradley ' s family . like Elaine , however , they have channel their trauma , with incredible resilience and strength , to campaign to tackle knife crime by establish the " Bin the Blades " campaign on social medium , and work with local school , speak to student to convey at an early age the seriousness of this issue and the consequence of carry dangerous weapon . I recently work with Elaine , Kelly and Bryony on a soon - to - be - release short film , commission by the BBEST group of school across Batley and Birstall , specifically about the horror and impact of knife crime , in which I also reflect on my personal experience of the murder of my sister , Jo Cox , in 2016 . it be an extremely emotional experience for all of we , but we all feel that we have a duty to spread the message about the real horror and personal impact that knife crime can have . this important work be have an impact , and I can not praise these brave individual and the school involve in the project highly enough for what they be do . no other family should have to go through what these family , the other family we have hear about today and my own family have go through . sadly , there be no single simple solution to eliminate knife crime and remove dangerous weapon from our street . family and community need national leadership if we be to tackle this most serious of issue , and I be always happy to work across party , but the national leadership have be lack in recent year . that be why I be pleased that Labour have a five - point plan that will deal with knife crime in a holistic , multi - agency way . of course we need tough consequence for carry a knife and of course we need more officer on our street , but we also need early intervention in school , include youth hub . we need youth worker embed in A & e unit , pupil referral unit and custody centre , and the establishment of mental health and mentor programme . we must also , finally , crack down on the availability of these hideous weapon and take action where , sadly , the Conservatives have fail to do so . we should also go after the gang and tackle the exploitation of young people who be draw into criminality . all of this should be co - ordinate across Government in a Home Office , Health and Education approach that address the root cause of the issue , not just the symptom — an approach that will break the chain of criminality , prevent young people from get into these group and gang , and , if they be draw in , provide help and mentor by offer a tailored and support route out . like colleague across the House , I visit school in my constituency most week , as well as local community group , sport club and business . I applaud the work they do across Batley and Spen to build strong community , but I also hear about the fear many of they feel about antisocial behaviour and violence , include knife crime , in our community , and their worry about young people be draw into dangerous behaviour , or simply end up in the wrong place at the wrong time . only a tough approach , but one that be target and multi - agency , will succeed . it be hard work , and it will take time , resource , determination and co - ordination . it be not a gimmick . the Labour plan demonstrate how seriously we take this issue , with our mission - lead approach , which have be sorely miss in recent year . only Labour have a detailed plan to make our town and village safe , to restore safety to our community and to get these dangerous weapon off our street . we owe it to Robert and Bradley , to their family and to all the other family we will hear about today to put that plan into action . I be pleased to endorse the Labour plan today . on behalf of the whole House , let I say to the hon . Lady that we all appreciate the courage it take for she to speak on this subject . we as a House , and as friend and acquaintance , will never forget the sacrifice make by her sister , Jo Cox , while she be carry out her duty as a Member of Parliament . I would like to place on the record my thank to the hon . member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) for her courage in speak about her personal experience . we have hear a lot about how this should not be a political debate , but I be afraid that the choice make have be very political . " London highlight what Labour can do in power " — not my word , but those of the labour leader in a rare moment of consistency . for once , I agree with he . just look at the regional crime datum and at the datum specifically for our capital city , London . the only " pc " londoner be likely to come across be political correctness . the two area where knife crime have rise the most , London and the west midland , both have a labour police and crime commissioner in charge . if those two area be take out of the national figure , they show that across the country knife crime actually fall last year , prove yet again that the shadow Front Benchers need to get their own house in order before preach to other . " tough on crime , tough on the cause of crime " — empty word that we have hear Labour politician after Labour politician parrot for the last 30 year . but when they be in power , those word from the pound - shop blairite could not have be far from reality . for all the playground politic of this place , we must remember that these failure have real - life consequence for both the victim of crime and our community . when I be grow up in Bexley , one of London ' s suburb , life be always relatively safe , with Bexley consistently rank in London ' s top five safe borough . issue such as knife crime and gang crime be view as a distant inner - city issue , which many family , include my own , think they have leave behind when they choose a well life for their child in Conservative - run Bexley . fast - forward to today , and while Conservative - run Bexley be still one of the safe borough in London , with a crime rate approximately a third low than that of the rest of London , fear about knife and gang crime on our doorstep be very real . several serious incident have tragically take place in my constituency in recent month , and my thought remain with all those family , and those across London , who have lose love one . the late crime rate datum highlight the fact that violent crime have be on a consistently upward trend since Sadiq Khan become Mayor , and tragically Bexley be not immune from Labour ' s shameful record in London over the past eight year , which have see more than 1 , 000 people kill . life after life have be destroy by the scourge of knife crime in London , with londoner let down time and again by politician in this place who be not brave enough to openly back effective police measure such as stop and search , which take an average of 400 dangerous weapon off the street each month . the Labour spokesman could not even bring himself to mention stop and search today . let we not forget that it be this Labour Mayor of London who openly pledge to " do all in my power to far cut " the use of stop and search . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? now look at the state of London after eight year of Sadiq Khan ' s politically correct policing . just look at the datum . in London , we have see a 54 % increase in knife crime since Labour take office . accord to the Met ' s official datum , the number of stop and search carry out in 2023 be 18 . 9 % low than it have be in the previous 12 month , and at the same time knife crime offence rise by 17 . 1 % . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? before anyone accuse I of stoke a culture war — which , as we all know , be the left ' s new buzzword to try to shut down critical debate about their woke idea — let I also point out that the official data show that white people be the most search ethnic group in this period : 10 , 000 more over a two - year period . that be why I make no apology for my support for frontline officer use the like of stop and search to help take dangerous knife off the street , and why I back this government to close the legal loophole on zombie knife and to roll out scan - and - search technology as quickly as possible . as politician , we should all be show real leadership in this place and do the same . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? the public have rightly have enough of empty gesture politic and warm word from politician when yet another life be unnecessarily take . they want action . they want their political leader to get a grip on crime and make all our community safe again . in London , the need to get a grip on crime and get back to basic policing could not be clear . not only be the Metropolitan police in special measure , but their leadership now face a confidence crisis , from the perspective of both the public and many serve frontline police officer . Morale in the Met have arguably never be low . it be little wonder , when decent , hard - work frontline officer feel that time and again they do not have the backing of the Mayor and their leader to do the dangerous job of be a police officer in London , whether that mean use stop and search to take dangerous knife off the street , or specially train firearm officer still have the confidence to pull the trigger in those split - second life - or - death moment when they guard we in place like this . I be genuinely sad to say that I be not surprised to learn that the Met be the only force in the country that have fail to hit its recruitment target , despite million of pound in support be provide directly by the Government . that be yet another failure on the part of the Labour Mayor and police and crime commissioner , and one that have cost London more than 1 , 000 police officer — 1 , 000 extra police officer could be walk the beat , actually attend burglary or help to stop what feel like a never - end rise in knife crime . seriously , what chance do ordinary Londoners have when criminal gang roam the street of London target their next victim , with the only question normally be whether a watch , a car or a phone have be steal this time , and whether the police will even bother to investigate the crime ? true to form — and this be what Labour member be try to do here today — the Labour Mayor of London continue to deflect all of these failure on to the Government , rather than take any accountability as the police and crime commissioner for London . in fact , I understand that the Office for Statistics Regulation recently have to correct Sadiq Khan ' s misinformation on knife crime , state that it have " significantly increase across " his tenure and not decline , as he have claim . quick to plead poverty at every opportunity , the Mayor always manage to find money for his mate or money to waste on his late pet project rather than more funding for frontline policing . all that be pay for , of course , from the wallet of Londoners , include a staggering £ 200 increase in the Mayor ' s share of council tax and his continued hammering of motorist across London . and look how he spend taxpayer ' hard - earn money , with £ 30 million for his union mate despite a record number of strike — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? he have spend £ 29 . 5 million on additional staffing cost , include a 57 % rise in Mayor ' s office cost and a 33 % rise in press office spending ; and let we not forget the £ 10 million for Met officer to learn what colour their personality be . now I do not know what colour my personality be , but what I do know from my experience of life be that when you see red ahead , you should follow the warn sign and stop . when it come to crime and transport , the great british public should look very closely at the sorry state of our capital city to see the big bright red warning sign highlight what to expect if another left - wing , human right London lawyer be ever in charge of our United Kingdom . as the Leader of the Opposition have say himself , London highlight what Labour can do in power . with taxis up 70 % , with London now officially the slow city in the world in which to drive — that is , if your car have not already be steal — and with more than 1 , 000 people tragically kill under this Labour Mayor , a Labour - run United Kingdom be a scary prospect indeed . I wish I could say that it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , but I would not like to mislead the House in any way . in what way ? no — I mean that I , not the hon . Gentleman , might mislead the House by say that I enjoy his extraordinary rant . let I gently say that if he want to audition to become the Conservatives ’ fail candidate in the mayoral election that be about to be hold , there be well place to do it than here , especially if he be too frit to take an intervention from the other side . I would , again , gently say that that suggest that he be not capable of listen to anyone or engage in debate . he be very comfortable with his own voice . last July , in West Ham park , Rahaan Ahmed Amin be kill by a knife wound to his heart . Rahaan be allegedly stab with a foot - long ninja - style sword . he be 16 year old , and his death be absolutely devastating for his family and for our community . those who have who have be charge or arrest in connection with Rahaan ' s death be the same age , or even young . what happen to Rahaan be simply appalling , and it come after so many other case of young life destroy , family devastate , and community break by fear and distrust and struggle to heal . that fear and that harm continue . just last week we have three separate stabbing in Newham . last Monday a 14 - year - old boy be stab on a bus . last Tuesday one of our local teaching staff be stab in Woodgrange Road . last Thursday evening another man be also stab in Forest Gate . it be a testament to our police and to our NHS that no one die . for many year , this place have debate and pass law on zombie knife and machete , but these law clearly have not do the job . my constituent want to know from the Minister why he feel that the drip - feed of small amendment to the law around knife have not work . why be there loophole ? why have the Government not ban so - call ninja sword like the one that allegedly kill Rahaan ? and why be our exist law so poorly enforce , especially online ? I understand — most of the Conservative Members have allude to this — that knife crime be complex . none of we think that all access to knife can be prevent , and we all understand that there be many different cause that prompt a child or young person to pick up a knife , so surely what we need be comprehensive action to tackle both the availability of knife and the root cause of knife crime . one cause of many young people ' s death in Newham have be involvement with the gang who groom and exploit young people , ruin life for profit . hon . member may remember that I have be bang on about this agenda for about seven year now , but I do not think we have actually get a grip on the criminal network that cause this massive harm . in October 2022 , I publish a report on child criminal exploitation . I talk to expert across the police , the school , social service and charity , and one of our main recommendation be for the Government to focus on disrupt those who control the organise criminal who groom our child . I be obviously delighted that my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , the shadow Home Secretary , have pledge a new criminal offence of child criminal exploitation and a new strategy to go after the gang who be profit from the exploitation of our child . I absolutely agree with the hon . member on this point and I hope that the Government will do something similar , but do she agree that this be also about demand ? too many middle - class professional probably do not realise that behind their taking of cocaine or whatever be young people be expose to crime . I absolutely agree with the hon . Lady . some people who buy cocaine and other drug think that it be some kind of victimless crime , but it be not . we be see the impact of those crime in the death , the grooming and the destruction of so many young life . I be truly disappointed that the Government have not make progress on a statutory definition of child criminal exploitation or on make it a dedicated offence . the need for such a change have be raise repeatedly over the year , include by the Children ' s Commissioner and the Education Committee , so I would be really grateful if the Minister could offer an update . will the Government support and push through the private Member ' s Bill for a new offence put forward by the hon . member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) , or will they match labour ' s commitment and create a new offence of child criminal exploitation in Government time ? we must all acknowledge that some of this be about wide social problem such as poverty and the lack of access to opportunity . these problem be get much bad due to the cost of living crisis , because poverty create vulnerability to groom and destroy a young person ' s trust in their future . in closing , I want to mention the terrible rise in unmet need for mental health treatment , particularly for young people . the truth be that our mental health service simply can not cope with the level of need , and this be yet another devastating symptom of 14 year of Tory failure , where service have be trash by a lack of desperately need resource . we clearly need a join - up approach , so I would be grateful to know whether the Minister be work across department to identify the resource and the reform that we desperately need . we need a Government who will support early intervention across the board , in school and A & Es and through community organisation and youth work , but the record of this Conservative Government be one of trashing prevention and dither about get deadly weapon off our street , so it be quite clear what my constituent need : they need a Labour Government . Madam Deputy Speaker , thank you for call I to speak in this incredibly timely debate . no one in this House today want knife on our street . my constituent do not want knife on the street of Uxbridge and South Ruislip , and I certainly do not want knife on the street in the community that I have be elect to serve . one more day when just a single knife remain on our street be a day too long , and that be why the Government ' s work to try and achieve this be welcome : 120 , 000 knife have be take off our street in the last four year , but there be of course more to be do . there always be , but I believe that this provide an impetus for how we can navigate this issue . other change in the law , include allow court to hand down long custodial sentence and the seizure of weapon in suspect ' home will go a long way , as will so - call hotspot policing and stop and search . these change can not come soon enough , as I know those on the Front Bench recognise , especially for my constituent and for law - abide citizen across the capital . early in the debate I hear a reference to the Knife Angel . I would like to pay tribute to Rev . Andy Thompson of St Margaret ' s Church in Uxbridge and other faith leader across my constituency who have arrange for the Knife Angel to visit my constituency , which will benefit youth engagement on many of the point that have be talk about in the House today . however , it bear note that public safety and policing in London fall within the remit of the Mayor as the capital ' s police and crime commissioner . this be the same Mayor of London who suddenly u - turn on Uxbridge police station in the run - up to the by - election , the same Mayor of London who have see instance of knife crime grow over 50 % since he take office in 2016 , the same Mayor of London under whom the annual knife crime figure have swell 22 % to just under 14 , 000 in the most recent total , the same Mayor of London who be in charge of police in our city and who now see an average of 38 knife crime offence a day , and the same Mayor of London who will not talk about those figure . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary note in a recent letter to the Mayor that if the figure for London be discount , the national trend would show a 1 % reduction on last year . that be small , but it be a sign of progress . in London , however , with nearly 14 , 000 instance of knife crime , the Office for National Statistics suggest that we can see a 5 % increase . enough be enough . London can no long be ignore by the current Mayor , who be also the police and crime commissioner . crime figure for London since 2016 have deteriorate against national trend , and our capital city deserve well . in the past decade , the Tories have cut 21 , 000 police officer across the UK and knife crime have go up by 77 % . this government ' s response have be completely inadequate . the serious violence strategy be more than five year out of date , the serious violence taskforce have be disband , and everyone know from their own community that too little be be do to divert young people away from violence and crime . People in Erdington , Kingstanding and Castle Vale have be leave to face the consequence of Tory knife crime failure , and the B23 postcode in my constituency have the high rate of knife crime in the west midland , with 39 people stab last year , yet we have just a single weapon surrender bin . if we be serious about end the blight of knife crime in our community , we need the Government to be serious about funding . in the west midland , we have lose 2 , 221 officer and have have £ 175 million slash from our budget since the last Labour Government . that be feel most harshly in area that be already struggle . of the 225 leave - behind neighbourhood in the UK , two be in my constituency , which be the fifth most deprived in the country . with the increase in county line and gang , young people do not feel safe walking to and from school — it be as simple as that . even when my constituent contact the police , the massive funding failure and long waiting time in the criminal justice system mean they very rarely see any justice . a constituent tell I that she have raise the issue of a gang in her block follow a recent stabbing . she tell I that , when her neighbour be threaten with a knife by a group of young people and she report it to a police community support officer , she be advise that the good thing she could do would be to " make friend " with the gang . one of the most worrying aspect of knife crime be the large amount of youth violence across the UK . when a stabbing be report in area like Erdington , it be too often a child be stab by another child . this mean that prevention be key , and Departments must work together to prevent knife crime before it happen . last March , I ask the Secretary of State for Education how many school in my constituency use metal detector to screen pupil , and how many weapon have be recover as a result . the Department could not tell I because it do not record this datum . it be unbelievable that the Department for Education do not know how many school across the country use metal detector , or even how successful they be . if we be miss this important preventive information , what else be we miss ? it just be not good enough . it be not right that people in Erdington , and across the UK , have to fear violent crime when walk to the shop or when their child walk to school . the primary objective of any Government must be to keep people safe , which be why it be so concern that , in total , the Prime Minister have announce a ban on zombie knife 14 time . since the Government first attempt a ban in 2016 , there have be a 24 % increase in murder involve a knife or sharp instrument . something clearly be not work . labour be committed to halve knife crime across the UK in the next decade , thereby prevent the further serious crime , youth offend and tragic loss of life that come with it . we would implement guarantee sanction and serious intervention for young people find carry knife , we would refer every offender to a youth offend team , and we would introduce a mandatory , bespoke action plan to prevent reoffende . labour would completely crack down on the availability of knife on Britain ' s street , include where further law be require on online knife sale . it be clearly time for an election , because community in my constituency , and young people across the UK , deserve well . one of the thing I most enjoy about this job be when people come to see I in the Palace of Westminster and I get to show they where I work , because whatever they think of hon . member , this building and this democracy be theirs , and I want to show they this wonderful place and why it matter . a few month ago I take people from High Heritage , a charity in my constituency , around the House of Commons . I show they the history of the building , and afterwards we sit down on a bench in Westminster Hall and have a conversation . the hon . member for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) , who be not currently in her place , be next to I talk to a school from her constituency . she do a far well job of extoll the virtue of her role as a Member of Parliament than I do . I listen to her speech , and then I speak to the people from High Heritage . one of they be Joyce , whose son , a Peterborough lad know as Alfred , have be stab and murder only month early while he be at university in Northampton . what Joyce say to that group of people who come to Parliament will never leave I . she say , " let ' s not shy away from this conversation about knife crime , because our child and young people need to know the devastating effect that carry a knife can have . " I ask she what she think the Government need to do to make the message clear to young people that carry a knife be unacceptable , and to get knife off the street . she say , " quite honestly , it would be a tough , zero - tolerance approach , because only tough love be go to stop young people carry knife . " that really hit home , because this be a mother who have lose a son . this be a mother who be determined that something good come from perhaps the most appalling thing a parent could imagine . it will always remain with I . I remember another conversation in Cathedral Square , where Joyce be speak to a number of people about her terrible experience . a man call Andrew Bowley have also tell I about his experience . he be stab five time in Peterborough in 2017 . he live and have dedicate a good proportion of his life to talk about his experience and why knife crime be so appalling . it be still happen , and it be still happen in Peterborough . although it be good news that we have see arrest , the fact that they come after such devastating incident be obviously not good . five Peterborough teen who carry out brutal knife attack in a city park have be lock up . they have be jail for a maximum of 70 year between they , with some of they get 19 year . I be pleased they receive such tough sentence , but not only have they ruin the life of the people they attack , who will suffer the consequence for many year ; they have also ruin their own life . they be also go to be in prison for an extremely long time . obviously , that be good in the sense that potentially very violent people be off the street and the public be safe , but it be tragic to see five more life ruin . what else do I want to talk about in this speech ? I want to reflect more on that zero - tolerance , tough approach , but let we park that for a moment and come back to it . first , I want to pay some tribute . at the end of last year , Peterborough ' s police have a knife amnesty , which result in 170 blade , knife and offensive weapon be take off the street . they can no long be use in the way we would not want they to be use , and that be good . I hear the statistic early of 120 , 000 knife have be take off the street thank to amnesty . obviously , that be a good thing . our Criminal Justice Bill be go through Parliament , and it will create new offence and ensure that we do what we can to tackle knife crime . let I give my opinion and , I believe , that of Joyce . the maximum sentence for carry a knife be four year and many repeat offender be go to prison on a regular basis , but I want to see the zero - tolerance , tough approach that Joyce advocate , as there be no excuse for carry a knife in public . I know that a lot of young people , unfortunately , get themselves draw into difficult circumstance , but the message need to go out loud and clear from this place : if you be carry an offensive weapon , a knife , a bladed weapon such as we be hear about today , like zombie knife — you will go to prison . you will receive a custodial sentence . only that zero - tolerance , tough approach will get that message through to people . the message need to get through to family and parent that if they allow their child to get involve in knife crime , those child will ruin their life and go to prison . Prison be probably the least bad option for they , as they could end up dead — no one want to see that happen . no one become a politician or come into this place because they do not want to see a solution to an issue such as knife crime . a cross - party approach should be take on this . let I say gently to some Opposition Members , whom I respect and like enormously — I know that many of they care deeply about the constituency and community they represent — that as soon as we start bring party politic into this , people such as Joyce and the young people I speak to , include those at High Heritage , switch off . I see Opposition Members point , and I know that it just not member on one side of the House who be guilty of this , but once we start talk about plan with the word " Labour " insert in front of they and say , " only this be ever go to resolve any of the problem , because it be write by some bright spark at Labour HQ " , people turn off . that be not what this debate should be all about . it should be about what we see in our constituency and what we can do to solve it . it should be about what we can do as member of Parliament , whether we have the word " Conservative " , " labour " or " Liberal " next to our name , and as people root in our community , elect by our local people to listen to our local people and to stamp out knife crime in our constituency . I can stand here and talk about the need for a zero - tolerance approach and what I think need to happen , which be that anyone catch carry a knife should go to prison , but deep in our community we can do what I do , and what I be sure many hon . member have do , which be listen to people such as Joyce and the High Heritage charity , the people affect by knife crime , and be their advocate . I know that many member of Parliament on both side of the House do that , but it be just a shame that we have not articulate that more clearly in this debate . on 6 January , two people be convict of the murder of Kalabe Legesse , a 29 - year - old young man who be stab on 30 December 2022 in Peckham Rye park , in the neighbouring constituency to mine , while be rob of his mobile phone . Kalabe be my constituent . he be a graduate , the old son in his family and very much love by everyone who know he . Kalabe be kill by a single stab wound to the heart with a large hunting knife , which be later find at the home of one of his attacker . on Monday 4 September , I stand at the police line on the Angell Town estate , in my constituency , follow the murder of 21 - year - old Ronaldo Scott with a huge knife in broad daylight . on 3 October , I stand at the police line on Coldharbour Lane follow the murder of another young man , whom I can not name because of legal proceeding . again , he have be murder with a huge knife . just last Monday , another stabbing take place . this time , it be of a 19 - year - old and it happen on the Kingswood estate — thankfully , he survive his injury . each time such horrific event take place , a family have its heart rip out and the wide community be devastate and traumatise . young people be leave terrified to leave their home , and parent be leave feel fearful each moment that their child be out of their sight . knife crime extinguishe live , but it also snuff out hope , aspiration and any sense of a well future . knife crime be not inevitable . it be not a normal part of life that we should accept just happen in some place — it be not acceptable . it be not unsolvable . it have be allow to spiral under this Government because of the political choice they have make : the political choice to make local authority bear the brunt of austerity , with the resource that fund youth work , early help and support for family , sure Start centre , play equipment and community centre strip away year after year for more than a decade : the political choice to take £ 1 billion out of the budget for the Metropolitan Police Service , decimate neighbourhood policing , the bedrock of good police - community relation , and damage the trust and confidence of community in policing ; and the political choice to do literally nothing about the growth in the use of the most dangerous bladed weapon — zombie knife , machete and ninja sword — despite promise to do so since 2016 . the Government have repeatedly say that they would do so " when parliamentary time allow " , as if they be not the same government who have control over the allocation of parliamentary time and can choose to prioritise whatever issue they like . this Government have choose not to prioritise take the most dangerous weapon off our street . the clinical director of King ' s College Hospital ' s emergency department have describe these weapon to I as " ' weapon of war " , capable of inflict horrific injury , break bone , slice through internal organ and often leave victim with no chance of survival and leave those who do survive with life - change consequence . the ban the Government have now announce be partial and have significant loophole . the appalling loss we have see in my constituency have lead to some exceptional work to tackle serious violence . I want to pay particular tribute to Ecosystem Coldharbour , which be fund by the Mayor of London ' s violence reduction unit ' s MyEnds programme . ecosystem bring together a number of trust local organisation that work with young people and family . for the past three year , they have be deliver a range of positive activity for young people to help they pursue their ambition ; trauma support for people affect by serious violence ; and grant funding for a range of small community organisation to be able to deliver target intervention . that include an extraordinary group of woman who go by the name of Circle of Life Ignite , all of whom have lose a child to knife crime . they be campaign , in memory of the child they have lose , to install bleed - stop kit to provide the emergency intervention that be need when a stabbing happen . I have no word to express the courage of woman who be turn their own tragedy into hope so that other victim do not have to do . ecosystem be show how serious violence can be tackle at a community level , and that be the approach that the next Labour government will implement across the country . young Futures partnership will bring community organisation together with local council , the police , youth justice service and other to provide targeted support to young people at risk of serious violence . we will ensure that mental health support be available for young people in every community in the country . we will close the loophole in the partial , piecemeal ban on large knife that the Government have announce . we will act where the Conservatives have fail . I want to give the last word to a young constituent name Joshua Eyakware , who write the following poem about the work of ecosystem : " see in the ecosystem , we show the young people that there ' s a well way , give they the tool to succeed and make a well place , just give they the space to grow to learn and to feel free , and show they peace and happiness be what they can achieve . so , let ' s celebrate our young people , because they ' re our future , our next leader and hero so let ' s make they feel super , to give they a well life let ' s give they love and our time , and one day the darkness will fade because we teach they how to shine . " that work in our community be have an impact and be genuinely transformative , but those in my community who work to tackle serious violence , and those across the country who do the same , need more leadership and support from central Government . that be the leadership that a Labour Government will provide . we need a general election so that it can be deliver . this government be let our young people and community down when it come to tackle the devastating impact of knife crime . under the Tories , knife crime have go up by more than 77 % since 2015 , and sadly we have see the tragic consequence in town such as Luton . I rise to speak in support of labour ' s motion . I press the Government to strengthen their legislation and ban not only zombie - style knife and machete , but ninja sword and other dangerous knife , which would remain legal under their current plan . but if we be to reduce the needless loss of young life , we must do more than legislate and enforce our way through . of course we must ensure that carry knife and knife crime have significant consequence , but we also need support in place to stop our young people feel that they need to carry knife and be draw into knife crime . I support labour ' s knife crime plan to guarantee sanction and serious intervention for young people find carry knife , and to provide tough new guidance so that serious penalty , such as curfew and tagging , be use where appropriate . I will focus on Labour ' s Young Futures early intervention programme : a target programme in every area to identify young people most at risk of knife crime ; a plan that will bring together service at a local level , to well co - ordinate the delivery of preventative measure ; a national network of youth hub to deliver join - up support for young people ; a plan for youth mental health , with support in every school and open - access hub in every community , with action to tackle mental health waiting list too ; and a programme that will see youth worker in A & E unit , custody centre and our community , with mentor in pupil referral unit to well target and support young people at risk . the Young Futures programme will work alongside a new serious organise crime strategy to go after the gang that be make million from the exploitation of child and young people in our community . in Luton , sadly we have see too many young people and child kill by other young people and child . life have be lose and change forever for all involve , especially the family who be leave behind . I have listen to family whose child have be kill and to our Luton community , who do not want to see yet another young life lose in our town . it be heartbreaking because so much loss could have be prevent , but for the political decision of this Conservative Government that have destroy the youth service that carry out vital preventative work , diminish the visible presence and intelligence of neighbourhood police that help our community feel safe , and fail to deal with the criminal gang that exploit and draw our young people into knife crime . despite this sorry picture of 14 year of Conservative Government strip back our public service and make huge cut to council in the name of austerity , we have some hope through excellent partnership work at a local level , such as the Luton Youth Partnership and the multi - agency support hub work , which be a systemic approach develop over a number of year and lead by Dave Collins at Luton Council . I pay tribute to the work that he and so many other involve in that collaborative approach carry out . a collaborative approach be at the heart of Labour ' s Young Futures programme , with a cross - Government initiative to oversee it , bring together all the relevant Departments to set objective , oversee delivery and assess outcome . importantly , Labour will work with local council to establish new Young Futures partnership . they will build on exist success , such as in Luton , by co - ordinating and well integrate exist service for teenager and young people in their area ; by involve council youth service , include youth offending service , social service and community safety officer ; and by use the police , mental health service , school , and voluntary and community organisation to map the provision of service , establish datum and system to identify child and young people at risk of exploitation and crime , and to establish appropriate referral and intervention . I emphasise the importance of the excellent work do by our voluntary and community organisation in Luton , many of which have have to pick up the piece after conservative cut to our local council and health service . they be work together to support our young people and community , be they from our local youth group such as the scout and guide , mentorship by group such as Unleashing Potential , as well as grassroots community activist such as the excellent Wingman Mentors , which I recently meet with my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . that group tell we about its campaign to get more bleed kit in community location , recognise that if we be not able to fully prevent stabbing , we can try to ensure that life be save by the early use of bleed kit by local people on the scene before paramedic arrive . to close , we know that knife crime destroy life , devastate family , and create fear and trauma in our community . our young people deserve well . a Labour Government will give young people their future back , but we need a general election to do so . Madam Deputy Speaker : " I just want it to stop . I just don ' t want it to be happen here … where there be little kid play in the park . " that be how one Coventry teen describe how he feel grow up in the shadow of knife crime , and he be far from alone . in the national medium , knife crime be often talk about as if it be just a London thing , but in truth it touch young people across the country . one in six child between the age of 13 and 17 report be a victim of violence last year , and around half say that violence , or the fear of violence , affect their day - to - day life . thing be particularly bad in the west midland . accord to datum from last year , the region have the high rate of knife crime anywhere in the country , with 178 offence per 100 , 000 people . that be five time high than north Yorkshire , which rank bottom . nationally , knife crime be up a shocking 77 % since 2015 . while this House be unanimous in recognise the problem , too often politician look for quick fix or put appear " tough " above provide real answer . what be strike about knife crime be that we know what drive it and what reduce it — and that be not easy , Daily Mail headline - grab answer . it be not a matter of lock up more kid for long while ignore the driver of the real problem , as the actor Idris Elba have warn . I pay tribute to he for his work campaign on the issue . since custodial sentence for young people be associate with high level of reoffende , proposal such as mandatory prison sentence for first - time knife possession be likely to draw young people far into criminality , while fail to tackle the cause of why young people carry knife in the first place . part of the answer be close loophole in the ban on the sale of dangerous weapon , but that be not the whole story . as those familiar with the issue know too well , Britain have a clear example of how to tackle knife crime . two decade ago , Glasgow be know as one of the murder capital of Europe , with one of the high rate of homicide in the global north . rather than a simple law and order response , a public health approach be take that seek to diagnose and prevent violence , rather than just react after the event . that involve increase support for young people at risk of get sweep up in violence . after 10 year , the number of hospital admission from knife attack have fall by 62 % . again , that might not make Daily Mail headline , but the evidence be there . if young people at risk be offer talking therapy , extracurricular activity , such as sport programme , or enrol in mentor programme , they be less likely to get catch up in knife crime . I hear what the hon . Lady say about provide service and alternative for young people , but do she also believe in a serious deterrent and in enforcement ? do she agree that if a person be catch carry a knife or other offensive weapon , a custodial sentence be the most appropriate punishment ? I thank the hon . member for his question . as I mention in my speech , we in this Chamber be often quick to resort to law and order and custodial sentence , but that be not the whole response , because it do not fix the problem . as I will mention , there be an issue around poverty and deprivation . we be not give young people hope and we be not give they opportunity , but people do not want to talk about that , because it involve a long - term strategy and investment . what we have see over the past 14 year be the complete opposite of that . we have see youth centre close down and school stretch beyond measure when it come to cope with the pressure that young people experience . so yes , it be not the only response , and it be not what we should always fall back on . in Coventry , we have see a significant fall in youth crime after an approach similar to that see in Glasgow be adopt . launch in May 2023 , the " community initiative to reduce violence " programme have seek to identify young people at risk and offer they tailor support to help develop positive route away from violence — from assist with housing , health and debt to access to education . after six month , the programme have be credit with help to cut knife crime in the city by almost half . of course , there be more work to be do . just last weekend , two young people be stab in separate incident in the city — my thought go out to they and their family . the evidence clearly show that provide support for young people at risk , rather than just abandon they , be how we address this issue at a deep level . although we must roll out these violence reduction approach across the country — I be pleased that labour ' s Young Future programme look set to do that — we know that knife crime have a deep structural cause as well . there be a wealth of evidence show that these social ill be correlate with deprivation and inequality , with country that have high level of inequality and poverty be more likely to have high rate of violent crime . that be not surprising . when young people be abandon , when their job opportunity disappear , and when their future look bleak , it be little wonder that they be angry and feel hopeless . the answer to kid be scared of knife crime in Coventry be not to lock up more young people for long . the answer be not just to ban more dangerous weapon , however need that be . the fundamental answer be through offer young people a route away from these problem , by give they the support that they need to get on and give they hope in their future , and that be what the next Labour Government must do . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) and to be the last Back - Bench contributor to this debate , which on the whole — with one exception — have be thoughtful , insightful , heartfelt and really sensitive . I rise to speak today on behalf of my constituent in Luton North , who I know care a great deal about knife crime — when I say " care " , I mean that they be worried and scare about knife crime . there be no doubt that knife crime have become a national crisis , increase by 77 % since 2015 . it be a scourge on our society and it have tragic and often fatal consequence . Knife crime not only take life , but devastate family , destroy future and ambition , and have a detrimental ripple effect on all our community . unfortunately , we know the impact of this all too well in Luton , as my hon . friend the Member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) have already highlight . in September 2023 alone , in just one month , there be five stabbing in our town , one of which tragically lead to my constituent , 16 - year - old Ashraf Habimana , lose his life . two love parent lose their son , Ashraf ' s teacher and friend lose his bright and energetic personality , and our community have lose another young person under appallingly violent and , importantly , avoidable circumstance . his family and friend now have to grieve the loss of Ashraf and wait hopefully to see justice serve , but the last trauma of this event will remain with they and our community forever . two year ago , another 16 - year - old boy , Humza Hussain , be stab to death outside school — what another tragic loss , what another waste of life , what another future steal . our young people be most at risk when it come to knife crime . in the year end September 2022 , there be more than 46 , 000 record offence involve a knife or sharp instrument in England and Wales , with young man and boy most likely to be both the perpetrator and victim of this crime . I recently have the honour of meeting staff from Bedfordshire ' s brilliant violence and exploitation reduction unit with my hon . friend the Member for Luton South to find out more about their " just drop it " knife campaign . at its heart be the voice and experience of a mum , Roseann , who tragically lose her young son , Azaan " AJ " Kaleem , in 2018 . too often nothing be do when there be sign that a young person be get into trouble , be groom by gang , or fall into danger online . to I , the important part of today ' s debate be about the child exploitation side of it — the side of it on which this government have lag behind . I do not care whether it have " Labour " or " Conservative " on the front of it . parent , family and community just want it do . to I , the people who prey on innocent young life , regardless of their intention — whether it be crime , sexual exploitation or drug — be all the same and we should treat they exactly like that . when teenager say that they do not feel safe , or that they be struggle themselves with trauma or abuse , no one listen and no help be provide . that be what we be up against . the " just drop it " strategy aim to tackle these issue , provide accessible opportunity for young people to help they achieve their potential , ensure that they feel supported and safe , and help they to realise that there be an alternative to a life of knife crime and violence . all of these young boy and man leave family mourn the loss of life and the loss of a future that should have be bright and , importantly , safe . the brilliant organisation , box save live , work with hundred of young people in Luton . it be set up and be now run by the inspirational JP , who often highlight the work that rightly go on tackle violence against woman and girl , and ask what about violence against boy and man . I could not agree with he more . far too many young boy be expose to violence and fear from a very young age . what be the Minister do to tackle that ? if the Government be take any action , why be it not work ? if these death be as a result of a physical illness kill our young people , team of doctor and researcher would be work day and night to find a cure . but we already know the cure ; we know the lesson that need to be learn . the cure be all the thing that have be strip from our community over the past 14 year : decent community police ; youth centre ; decent school ; sure Start centre ; decent housing ; mental health support ; and tackle poverty . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton South say , shockingly , there be more food bank than police station . the result of knife crime have no political stripe , but how we have get here do . these be all political choice that lead to the perfect storm of knife crime that we see in our society today . when we hold community meeting after young Ashraf ' s death , hundred of people come and they say , " here we be again " . sadly , they be right . sadly , until all the thing that we know work be put in place , we will be here yet again . when the Minister stand at the Dispatch Box , I ask he please not to give we more warm word that lead to cold comfort for those family , as I know that it be only a matter of time before we be console yet another mother in Luton . family be lose their child , child be lose their friend and whole part of the country be lose their future . that situation should shame a Government of any colour , so I ask the Minister again please not to get up at that Dispatch Box and tell we that all be rosy , because it be not . I be grateful for the fact that , all the while this Tory Government fail our community , we have people in Luton such as Haleema Ali , who be fundraise for critical bleed kit in our town , and the Wingman Mentors , a not - for - profit organisation that work with vulnerable young people who be on the cusp of get involve with crime , carry knife , and serious violence . it have launch a campaign to install critical bleed kit in strategic location across our town . the kit contain essential supply to control severe bleeding effectively and can be use in the event of an emergency incident , whether a road traffic incident , a dog attack or a knife crime . I would be grateful to hear whether the Minister will be support that campaign . the organisation ' s founder , Si and Michelle , believe that those kit be just as vital and lifesaving as defibrillator . they be also deliver training for people to familiarise themselves with bleed kit and their practical use , to give those who may be on the scene as zero responder the necessary skill possibly to save a life . I pay tribute to the vital work that Wingman Mentors and other be do , but they should not have to rely on donation and funding from local business to make the installation of bleed kit a reality . yes , we have hear that knife crime be a cross - party problem and that we have to work across organisation and across party — and I be happy to do so . however , the Government in their response to this issue have be wholly inadequate . the serious violence strategy be more than five year out of date . the serious violence taskforce be disband and everyone know from their own community that too little be be do to support young people to move away from violence and crime . why be it that we have to continue with this farce of police funding in which Bedfordshire Police be classify as a rural police force ? we have Luton , Dunstable and Bedford all within that area . will the Minister please dare to comment on that and say when the farce of rural funding for Bedfordshire Police will end ? much more need to be do and we need a proper plan with meaningful funding behind it to make these change . I be therefore proud to support labour ' s commitment to tackle this issue at its source , establish a new Young Futures programme to stop young people be draw into crime , implement a total crackdown on the availability of knife on our street and impose tough sentence for perpetrator . Knife crime and violence have no place in our society . we all have a responsibility to tackle the problem within our community , but tackle knife crime no long just mean learn lesson ; it mean act on they so that we be not stand here again speak of our constituent , of love one tragically lose to knife crime and of those leave behind who be traumatise and change forever . I start by express my thank to hon . member across the House for their powerful contribution this afternoon . they include my hon . friend the Members for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) , for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) and for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) , the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) , my hon . friend the Members for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) and for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) , and the rest . they all speak powerfully about the tragedy that knife crime cause for victim and family . knife attack have become far too deadly and frequent , especially for young people , as we have hear in this debate . they ruin life , family and community , and I speak for the whole House when I say they must be stop . zombie - style weapon and ninja sword must be ban , but they be currently far too accessible . a quick Google search not only bring up heartbreaking story of the weapon be use , but show where people can easily buy they . they be readily available on marketplace for under £ 40 . that can not go on . we should not have to be in the Chamber today talk about ban zombie knife . if the Government ' s ban in 2016 have work and have go far enough , more life could have be save . we must act now and introduce criminal sanction for online marketplace . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Batley and Spen and other hon . member for mention the alarmingly high level of knife crime across our country . I remind the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) that knife crime be up 77 % since 2015 across the country , not just in one city . yet less than half of knife possession offence lead to a formal sanction last year . that be law and order in Tory Britain in 2024 . it be young man who be most likely to be both the offender and the victim of knife crime — young man who have their whole life ahead of they , include the 17 - year - old boy who be stab with a zombie knife in my Enfield North constituency only two week ago , Kalabe and Ronaldo in Dulwich and West Norwood , Alfred in Peterborough , Robert and Bradley in Batley and Spen , Ashraf in Luton North , Rahaan in West Ham , 39 people in Birmingham , Erdington and hundred of young people whose name we do not know today . each loss shock a family and a community , but too little be be do to divert young people away from violence and crime . our young people deserve well . they be not be deal a fair hand . that be not just the case in Enfield or in Birmingham ; it be happen up and down the country and it demand instant action . those weapon have no place in the hand of anybody on our street , never mind child in park and playground . what have the Government be wait for — a celebrity to step in so that they have to act ? that be what it feel like for many across the country . we have have 17 press release from the Government regard zombie and zombie - style knife since 2015 , as we have hear , yet a full ban be still not in place . what be the Government wait for ? as eloquently put by my hon . friend the Member for West Ham , the " drip - feed of small amendment to the law " have not work . for many , it feel as though there be no end in sight . I be relieved that a new ban be come , but we would not be here today if the first press release have actually mean something — if the Government ' s ban in 2016 have go far enough and actually work and the Tories have deliver on their promise to keep our community safe . sadly , this be a tired , hopeless Government , unable to deliver for family across our country . let we be clear : this ban need to go far . it need to cover ninja sword and other dangerous sword . however , the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire say that if there be other thing — refer to weapon or blade — that need to be bring into scope , the Government can do that much more quickly . my question be this : why wait , if they can ban those weapon now ? why wait for the criminal to shift to other weapon of choice ? there be no reason we should let criminal win at the expense of grieve family . as we have hear in the debate , the consequence of not close those loophole be devastating . that be why we be call for the Government ' s ban to go far now . with each day that pass , young people in particular be at risk of have their future take away from they , and we can prevent that . I stress that ninja sword should not be accessible at a click of a button . Ronan Kanda be murder with a 22 - inch ninja sword . the weapon be order online use someone else ' s identification and collect without any identification . how can it be so easy to commit a crime of that kind ? I think Members across the House can agree that there be very few legitimate reason to own and carry a 22 - inch sword on the street of this country — and that be exactly why we be debate this motion . it have become far too easy to own and to use those weapon on our street , with far too few consequence for do so . that be the culture that have be allow to thrive across Britain under this government , and it must stop . labour will close the loophole allow marketplace to escape liability for dangerous knife sale online . may I ask the hon . Lady the same question I ask the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) ? do she agree that someone catch in possession of a knife or bladed weapon such as she describe should go to prison ? currently , as I have say , in more than 50 % of case where young people be catch with a bladed weapon , nothing be be do and they have be allow to go off . the hon . Gentleman should question Ministers about that — [ interruption . ] I will continue . as I touch on early , too little be be do to give young people the good start in life . too often , when teenager say they do not feel safe or that they be struggle with trauma , abuse or mental health issue , no one listen and no help be provide . I support what my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South say so eloquently about how community service have just disappear . the Government have hollow out our youth service , mental health service and police team , among other . in fact , over the past 14 year , there have be no serious cross - Government effort to stop young people be draw into crime . who pay the price ? young people , victim , their family and community all over the country , include in my Enfield North constituency . they can not wait any long . we need early intervention to stop young people be draw into crime on our street in the first place . that be what Labour will do through our Young Futures programme . we will invest in young people and bring together a national network of youth hub in our community , with join - up multi - agency target work . we will put youth worker in A & E unit and mental health worker in school to ensure that they be on hand to help our young people when it matter most , give they the good possible start in life . that will support our aim of halve serious violence , include knife crime , and youth violence within a decade . we will step in where the Government have fail . community across the country be behind Labour ' s plan , so why aren ' t the Government ? we have do it in government before , and we can do it again . the crisis in knife crime need to be deal with urgently and can not be ignore any long . the Government need to get a grip and put an end to the suffering . if their ban have be successful , we would not be debate the issue today . we need the ban on zombie - style knife to go much far ; we need to introduce a criminal sanction for website that indirectly sell illegal weapon online ; and , in the long term , we need to support our young people to prevent they from be drag into crime in the first place . I think the whole House agree that our young people deserve well . we must give they the good possible start in life and keep they safe . that be why I urge all member from across the House to do the right thing and vote for Labour ' s motion to get the weapon off our street . I be grateful to have the opportunity to talk about this important topic . I thank member on both side who have contribute thoughtfully to this afternoon ' s debate , which be of huge importance to our constituent up and down the country . too many family have be touch by the tragedy of knife crime and the unspeakable agony of lose a love one . in fact , by coincidence — it be arrange before this debate be schedule — I meet yesterday with a few family from across London who have lose son , brother and , in one case , a daughter to knife crime . that group of family include the immediate family and cousin of Elianne Andam , a 15 - year - old girl from Croydon — the borough that I represent in Parliament — who be tragically murder on Wednesday 27 September last year . her alleged assailant be now in custody . I remember attend Elianne ' s funeral in Croydon a few week later . the outpouring of grief from the whole community , particularly from her parent , Michael and Dorcas , and her little brother , Kobi , move everybody who attend on that Saturday morning a couple of month ago — I think more than 1 , 000 people be in attendance . nothing illustrate more powerfully how important this topic be than see those family member and that whole community unite in grief at the loss of Elianne . of course , like the Andam family , too many family up and down the country , in London and elsewhere , have suffer tragedy in that way . it be up to all of we in public life — whether here in Parliament , in city government , police and crime commissioner , in local council and so on — to do everything we possibly can to deal with this issue . it be in that spirit that many member have approach the debate . we have hear quite a lot about figure . everyone know that we need to do more , but any informed debate have to start with a proper understanding of what the figure be . a number of Opposition Members have quote the figure of knife crime be up 77 % since 2015 . that be a police record crime figure . a number of other figure be available . the Office for National Statistics say : " police record crime do not tend to be a good indicator of general trend in crime " for high - volume offence — not my word , but those of the ONS . let I explain why : police record crime depend on the propensity of the public to report it and on how good a job the police do at record it when it be report . will the Minister give way ? I will just make the point about statistic and then I will give way . over the last few year — largely drive by his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services and its crime datum integrity initiative — the police have get a lot well at always record offence . on what be the more reliable measure , the ONS say : " the Crime Survey of England and Wales remain the good estimate of long - term trend in crime against the … population " — for offence include in that survey . the crime survey , which be , accord to the Office for National Statistics , the " good estimate of long - term trend " , show a reduction of 51 % in violent crime — I be talk specifically about violent crime , not all crime — since March 2010 . the figure stand at 1 . 841 million in the year end March 2010 . in the year end September 2023 — the most recent period for which data be available — it have go down by about 1 million offence , or by 51 % , to 894 , 000 offence . however , there be other measure — rise — I will give way to the shadow Home Secretary and then to the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . the ONS state : " Police record crime provide a well measure than the Crime Survey for England and Wales of high - harm but less common type of violence , such as those involve a knife or sharp instrument ( knife - enable crime ) . " do the Minister agree ? do he acknowledge that knife crime have go up 77 % since 2015 and that it be a deep , deep tragedy for our country ? I would agree that for low - volume crime , police record crime do provide an accurate measure . of course , the principal example of that be homicide , which be relevant here . I have the homicide figure for the shadow Home Secretary since she ask about police record crime for low - volume serious offence . in the year end March 2010 — the last year that she be in government — there be 620 homicide . in the 12 month end September 2023 — the most recent period for which data be available — those homicide figure have decline from 620 when she be in government to 591 in the most recent period . each of those homicide be a tragedy and one homicide too many , but the number have go down in that period , even though the population have grow significantly . rise — I do promise to give way to the hon . member for Luton North , so I will do so . I thank the Minister for be generous with his time . on police record crime , the 77 % figure be surely the bare minimum give that the level of under - reporting , particularly among young people , be extremely high . do he agree that the Government ' s claim that knife crime have somehow go down will sit like a bucket of cold sick with community such as mine , which know that the scourge of knife crime be rife under the Tory Government ? no one be suggest that knife crime be not a problem that need deal with . I be just give the hon . Lady and the House the fact . use the most accurate measure of high - volume crime accord to the Office for National Statistics , such crime have come down 51 % since 2010 , with homicide down as well . let I take another measure of serious crime : hospital admission follow a stabbing injury . quite frankly , if anyone — will the Minister give way ? if I may , I will finish this point and then move on , as I have more to talk about beyond the statistic . if someone be stab , they will go to hospital , so one of the measure we look at in the Home Office be the number of hospital admission with an injury cause by a bladed article — that be to say , a knife . since 2019 , those hospital admission have go down by 21 % . I do not mention those figure out of complacency , or to score some political point ; I mention those figure , which be endorse by the ONS , to make sure that the House have an accurate and sober assessment . will the Minister give way ? I do want to move on . have say all that , I want to talk about prevention , the law and enforcement . let I start with prevention . rise — order . it be obvious that the Minister be not take an intervention at this point . I have give way several time on the point about figure , and have explain in detail where the figure come from . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to give the Minister the opportunity to make sure he be not provide inaccurate information to the House . he have imply that the ONS believe that the crime survey , rather than the police record crime statistic — [ interruption . ] no , this be about factual information from the ONS . order . Front Benchers must not speak during a point of order . there be a factual point about what the ONS believe be the most accurate measure to use for knife crime . I have quote at the Minister the ONS ' s word about the police record crime statistic be the most accurate measure for knife crime , and the Minister have try to deny that that be the case . I want to give he the opportunity to give accurate information to the House , and to be clear that the police record statistic — which show that knife crime have go up over the past eight year — be the one that the ONS recommend . that be not a point of order . it be very kind of everyone to tell I how to do what I be in the process of do . the right hon . Lady know that what she have just say be a point of debate , not a point of order for the Chair . if she be ask I to answer a point of order , my answer to she be that it be not a point of order , and it be not for I to adjudicate from the Chair how any statistic should be interpret . the right hon . Lady know that the Minister be not take an intervention from she . he have the floor . it be up to he , and she should not use a point of order to make a point of debate . however , she have now do so , and I be sure the Minister will answer . Madam Deputy Speaker , thank you for deal with that point of debate disguise as a point of order . I will reiterate what I have say , and quote again what the Office for National Statistics say : " Police record crime do not tend to be a good indicator of general trend in crime " for high - volume crime . it have also say that the crime survey of England and Wales " remain the good estimate of long - term trend " in crime against the household . accord to the crime survey , violent crime be down by 51 % since 2010 . when we look at one of those low - volume crime for which the ONS say that police record crime be more appropriate — I obviously accept what the ONS say — homicide have go down from 620 to 591 , which be buttress by the 21 % reduction in hospital admission since 2019 . [ interruption . ] I will now move on to address the question of prevention . before the Minister move on , the Back Benchers be be really quite well behave — thank you . both set of Front Benchers be shout at each other across the table while the Minister be on his foot . now , stop it ! I have have bad , Madam Deputy Speaker , but thank you for your assistance . as always , it be gratefully receive . member on both side of the House have rightly raise the issue of prevention . of course , we want to prevent young people from get on to a path that lead to commit act of violence . we want to intervene early , take someone who may be as young as 12 and put they on a path where they do not become a 16 or 17 - year - old perpetrator . as member can imagine , that be a topic of discussion at the meeting I have yesterday , which be attend by the London violence reduction unit . in the current year , we be fund violence reduction unit in the 20 police force area most affected , to the tune of £ 55 million . that fund intervention such as mentor scheme , apprenticeship , work experience and even cognitive behavioural therapy — there be a really good evidence base for the fact that that intervention can steer a young person who be at risk of head down the wrong path in a well direction . we be also work with the Youth Endowment Fund , and have invest £ 200 million in it . it be spend that money partly on directly commission intervention that help young people at risk of get into gang or into a life of violence , but it also do research into what work well . it have a very good evidence base for what intervention be really effective — it have a top three . there be also some intervention that , on a common - sense basis , we would think will be effective , but the evidence base say be actually not effective . we be try to work with vrus to make sure that the work they fund be more oriented towards those effective intervention . I be also strike at yesterday ' s meeting by the impact that grassroots organisation can have . those organisation be often run by people who have experience themselves : either they have be victim of knife crime , or one of their family member have tragically be kill or seriously injure . work with those grassroots organisation can have a very positive impact , and I would like to do more to encourage it . a member — it may have be an Opposition member — make a point about identify youngster who be at risk of get on to the wrong track and intervene at an individual level . that be something I plan to do more on with local authority . I be aware of a case in which a 12 - year - old be involve in what we might call low - level criminality , but then go on to commit more serious offence . that be an example of where we need to identify individual and work with local authority , child ' s service and other — include mental health service , if necessary — to intervene and make sure an at - risk 12 - year - old do not become a 17 - year - old perpetrator . drug treatment be an associated issue . too much violence be associate with drug : either acquisitive crime to fund a drug habit , or violence associate with drug supply . we be invest £ 780 million over three year in increase drug treatment capacity , which have to be the right thing to do , especially for opioid , which be associate with the bad offend behaviour . finally on prevention , I completely endorse what be say by the hon . member for Luton North : bleed kit be vital , and I want to work with local authority and local police force to make sure more be available , include tourniquet , which can reduce the number of people who suffer either a very serious injury or a fatality if there be a tragic incident . some of those thing be already under way ; other be area in which we can do more . I will now turn to the law , which we have discuss quite a lot this afternoon . in relation to sentencing , about which my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) rightly make some point , carry any knife , regardless of whether it be ban — even a kitchen knife — in a public place without good reason be a criminal offence and currently carry a sentence of up to four year , and it be right that it do . through the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , we have recently tighten up the legislation to say that if a person get catch carry a knife a second time , there be a strong presumption , which will apply in all but exceptional circumstance , that a six - month minimum jail sentence will be impose . those power be in place . we be also legislate through the Criminal Justice Bill , which will have its Report stage in the House in a few week ' time , to ensure that where someone supply a knife to an under - 18 — which , as we have discuss , be a very serious matter — they will receive a high sentence of two year . we be also create a new offence that will be consider more serious : that of possess a knife in a public place with intent to cause injury . sometimes , people have advertise their intent on social medium , and when they have do so , that should be treat more seriously . early in the debate , I ask the Minister ' s colleague , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , a question , which he suggest the Minister might answer . I do not want to corner he , but what be the current direction of travel on the thinking in relation to the criminal sanction propose in the Opposition motion : " criminal liability for senior management of website which indirectly sell illegal knife online " ? I thank my right hon . friend for his very good question , and I will come on to that matter now . we want to tighten up the sale of knife online . the principal vehicle for that be not so much the Criminal Justice Bill , although we be increase the criminal sanction for supply a knife to an under - 18 to up to two year in prison , as the Online Safety Act 2023 , which be give Royal Assent in October and will be commence in stage as Ofcom draft its code of practice . the Online Safety Act put a duty on social medium firm — include , critically , online marketplace — to proactively prevent priority criminal offence from happen . for a time I be the Bill Minister for the Online Safety Bill , as it then be , and I think I be correct in recall that the priority criminal offence be set out in schedule 7 to that Act . however , I be speak from memory , so if the shadow Home Secretary want to make a point of order and correct I , she be very welcome to do so . I think it be schedule 7 , but she be unusually quiet . one of those priority offence be concern with the supply of knife , so social medium firm and online marketplace will have a duty to proactively take step to prevent the sale of two type of knife that be illegal and to prevent the sale of knife in general to under - 18 . to answer the question about criminal liability , Members will know , or should know , that the Online Safety Act include provision that create personal criminal liability for executive of large social medium firm in a number of circumstance . in fact , for precisely the reason my right hon . Friend mention and that the Opposition probably have in mind when they draft today ' s motion , those measure be strengthen as the Online Safety Bill pass through the House . the Online Safety Act , as it be now , be the mechanism through which those point , include personal criminal liability , be be address . by the way , the measure in the Criminal Justice Bill include give the police the power to seize lawfully hold knife that be legal , such as kitchen knife , if the police reasonably suspect that they be go to be use for criminal purpose . if a drug dealer have 10 of these knife , which might technically be legal , but have they at their home address , the police can seize those lawful knife where there be a suspicion that they be go be use for criminal purpose . that be in the Criminal Justice Bill . we be also act via a statutory instrument lay a week or two ago , which have be refer to , to ban even more zombie - style knife and machete . we set out in that statutory instrument the characteristic that those knife must have — over 8 inch in length , for example , or certain feature concern serration and sharp edge . the reason why that will not take effect until September be that we need to allow people who currently hold knife that will become illegal the chance to surrender they . that scheme will run over the summer , and the ban will take effect in September . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , who have be campaign on this topic for some time . she convene a knife crime summit last year with a number of police and crime commissioner , include Essex ' s excellent police and crime commissioner , Roger Hirst . their campaigning — hers and Roger Hirst ' s — lead to this measure come forward . I hope it be clear from those comment that the law have be tighten already and be in the process of be tighten even far . the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) ask a good question about child be coerce or manipulate into commit offence , and she ask in particular about a private Member ' s Bill table by my hon . friend the Member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) . this be something that we have study carefully and take advice on , as she would expect . it be already an offence , in relation to both child and adult , to encourage , control or cause they to undertake criminal activity . section 44 to 46 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 do what she be rightly ask for , and there be also provision in the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . I think they be in section 45 , but I be again speak from memory . those provision in the Serious Crime Act be very wide - range — in fact , more wide - range than those in the Modern Slavery Act — and they apply to child and to adult , and I would like to see the police use those power a great deal more . I say very gently to the right hon . Gentleman , and I be genuinely grateful to he for listen to what I ask for and for respond , that the expert in the field believe those provision do not do what they need to . would he allow I to write to he and have a discussion so that we can take this matter forward ? yes , I be very willing to work with the hon . Lady and to look at detailed representation . I have be advise that those section be quite broad - ranging . I have read they myself and — on the face of it , and read they as a Member of Parliament would read any bit of legislation — they do strike I as very wide - range in their scope . however , I be of course happy to listen to particular representation and to discuss they . if those section of the Serious Crime Act and the Modern Slavery Act contain lacunae , I would be willing to discuss that . I be look forward to hear from the hon . Lady on that topic and work with she if there be gap to be fill . we have talk about prevention and about the law need to be strong enough , and we must come on to enforcement because we must protect our fellow citizen from criminal activity , knife crime in particular . clearly , it be important to make sure that the police have the relevant resource . an Opposition Member refer to police number , and in March last year we achieve a headcount of 149 , 566 police officer — more than at any time in history . in fact , it be about 3 , 500 more than under the last Labour Government . I would like those police officer to do a couple of thing . I would like they to be patrol in hotspot where crime be a particular problem . we have be do hotspot patrolling in 20 force area , in what be call Project Grip and that have deliver very significant reduction in violent crime . we also trialle hotspot patrolling in 10 force area , include Essex , Staffordshire and Lancashire , for antisocial behavioural last year , and those deliver reduction in antisocial behaviour of up to 36 % . because that be work , from April this year — just a couple of month ' time — we be put new funding of £ 66 million behind it , over and above the record police settlement . by the way , that settlement will see an extra £ 922 million go to police and crime commissioner , with that £ 66 million to fund hotspot patrolling in every single police force area in the country , target against antisocial behaviour and serious violence , because we know it work . I be sure member will be lobby their police and crime commissioner to make sure that those hotspot patrol take place in area of concern to they . I know , for example , that one of the part of Essex where those hotspot patrol have take place be Southend , and it have be effective at reduce antisocial behaviour there . stop and search be another important part of this equation . it would seem that the Mayor of London and some Opposition Members do not like it , and I understand their concern , but we need to use stop and search confidently and proactively — do lawfully and respectfully , of course — because it have take 60 , 000 knife off the street in the last four year . every month , in London alone , 400 knife be take off the street by stop and search . we need to use it confidently and proactively and not pull back from use it , because it will save life . when we talk to the family of victim — who , sadly , often come from ethnic minority community — they say , " if only my son ' s murderer have be stop and search on the way to the murder . " that be the kind of thing we hear people say . if anyone be concerned about disproportionality — it be a topic I want to look at myself — the rate at which knife or drug be successfully find on people who be stop and search be about the same regardless of ethnicity ; whether someone be white , black , asian or any ethnicity , the find rate be about the same , at approximately 22 % or 23 % . if there be disproportionality or unfair behaviour by the police , we would find a difference , but we do not . so I urge all chief constable and pcc to use stop and search confidently and proactively . my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) mention scan technology . technology be be develop — it be not ready for deployment yet , but it be be develop and we be put funding into it this year — to scan people walk down the street , for example , semi - covertly . it be not a knife arch but be a much small scan device , and it can scan people to see whether they have a knife somewhere on their person . that be obviously much less intrusive than a stop and search , do not lead to some of the tension stop and search can lead to , and it be obviously much quick to do . I be hopeful that if we can deploy that scan technology , it will make it near - impossible to carry a knife in a high - traffic place such as a high street in London . we be invest in that technology . there be also an opportunity to catch more perpetrator use facial recognition , include live facial recognition , which we discuss in the Bill Committee at some length . Don ' t do this again ! the shadow Minister be worried that I be go to spend the next 20 minute describe it ; I be not go to do that , but I will say that in the last week there have be a further deployment of live facial recognition in Croydon and it have catch want people . over the past few week , people have be catch who be want for knife offence , rape and other very serious offence who would not otherwise have be catch . so live facial recognition can help we there as well . a strong approach to enforcement be critical , too . we hear some political point from the Opposition Members . I have try to deliver these concluding remark in a spirit that be not too political , but a few member say they think the solution to this problem be a general election . I would politely and gently say that the large police force in the country be London ' s , and it have a labour police and crime commissioner . Labour Members have say the way London be run be a model for a future Labour Government , but of the 43 police force I oversee , Labour and Sadiq Khan ' s stewardship of London be pretty much the bad . in the last year , knife crime in London have go up while in the rest of the country it have go down . it be the only police force to have miss its police uplift recruitment target . in fact it could have have an extra 1 , 062 police officer , for which there be Government money available , but it do not recruit they . if that be a model for a future Labour Government , heaven help we all . in the meantime , where there be measure we need to take to go far , we will . I be very open to have constructive discussion such as those I have agree to have with the hon . member for West Ham , because I know all of we be unite in our desire to fight the scourge of knife crime . those of we who have attend the funeral of victim , as I do with Elianne Andam ' s family a few week ago , and indeed all of we be under a moral obligation as well as a public duty obligation to do everything we can and leave no stone unturned in fight that scourge , and I will work with member on both side of the House to make sure we do exactly that . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House condemn the Government for oversee a 77 per cent increase in knife crime since 2015 ; recognise the devastating impact that knife crime have on victim , their family and the wide community ; acknowledge that the Government recently announce measure to ban zombie knife and machete ; believe , nonetheless , that this legislation do not go nearly far enough , mean that a number of dangerous type of knife and sword will remain legal and available on UK street ; therefore call on the Government to address the shortcoming of the ban by extend it to cover ninja sword and consult on a further extension ; and far call for the Government to establish an end - to - end review of online knife sale and introduce criminal liability for senior management of website which indirectly sell illegal knife online . ministerial Severance : reform 3 . 33 pm I beg to move , that this House call on the Government to immediately introduce legislation to amend the Ministerial and other Pensions and Salaries Act 1991 to ensure that — ( i ) depart Ministers who have not attain the age of 65 receive an amount equal to one - quarter of their earning over the previous 12 month as a Minister , minus any period cover by a previous severance entitlement , where that be low than an amount equal to one - quarter of the annual salary pay to that Minister before their departure ; ( ii ) any person who return to ministerial office after three week but within the period equivalent to the number of day of salary that they be pay in severance must return the correspond amount of their severance payment ; ( iii ) no person depart ministerial office while under investigation for allegation of gross misconduct or breach the ministerial code will be entitle to a severance payment unless and until they be clear of those allegation by the relevant authority ; and make provision as set out in this order , to take effect unless such a Bill have be introduce by no later than Monday 26 February 2024 : ( 1 ) on Tuesday 27 February 2024 : ( a ) Standing Order no . 14 ( 1 ) ( which provide that government business shall have precedence at every sit save as provide in that order ) shall not apply ; ( b ) any proceeding govern by this order may be proceed with until any hour , though oppose , and shall not be interrupt ; ( c ) the Speaker may not propose the question on the previous question , and may not put any question under Standing Order no . 36 ( closure of debate ) or Standing Order no . 163 ( motion to sit in private ) ; ( d ) at 3 . 00 pm , the Speaker shall interrupt any business prior to the business govern by this order and , notwithstanding the practice of this House as regard to proceed on a Bill without notice , call the Rt hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury or another Member on her behalf to move the order of the day that the Ministerial Severance ( Reform ) Bill be now read a second time ; ( e ) in respect of that Bill , notice of amendment , new Clauses and new schedule to be move in Committee may be accept by the Clerks at the table before the Bill have be read a second time . ( f ) any proceeding interrupt or supersede by this order may be resume or ( as the case may be ) enter upon and proceed with after the moment of interruption . ( 2 ) the provision of paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 18 ) of this order shall apply to and in connection with the proceeding on the Ministerial Severance ( Reform ) Bill in the present Session of Parliament . timetable for the Bill on Tuesday 27 February 2024 ( 3 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding up to and include Third reading shall be take at the sitting on Tuesday 27 February 2024 in accordance with this order . ( b ) proceeding on Second reading shall be bring to a conclusion ( so far as not previously conclude ) at 5 . 00pm . ( c ) proceeding on any money resolution which may be move by a Minister of the Crown in relation to the Bill shall be take without debate immediately after Second Reading . ( d ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding up to and include Third reading shall be bring to a conclusion ( so far as not previously conclude ) at 7 . 00pm . timing of proceeding and question to be put on Tuesday 27 February 2024 ( 4 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , notwithstanding Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) the Speaker shall leave the Chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 5 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chairman shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 6 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 3 ) , the Chairman or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply — ( a ) any question already propose from the Chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment , new clause or new schedule select by the Chairman or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a designate member ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other Questions , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 15 ) of this order . ( 7 ) on a Motion make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chairman or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . consideration of Lords Amendments and Messages on a subsequent day ( 8 ) if any message on the Bill ( other than a message that the House of Lords agree with the Bill without amendment or agree with any message from this House ) be expect from the House of Lords on any future sitting day , the House shall not adjourn until that Message have be receive and any proceeding under paragraph ( 9 ) have be conclude . ( 9 ) on any day on which such a message be receive , if a designate Member indicate to the Speaker an intention to proceed to consider that Message — ( a ) notwithstanding Standing Order no . 14 ( 1 ) ( which provide that government business shall have precedence at every sit save as provide in that order ) , any Lords Amendments to the Bill or any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly ; ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments or on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under subparagraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume ; ( c ) the Speaker may not propose the question on the previous question , and may not put any question under Standing Order no . 36 ( closure of debate ) or Standing Order no . 163 ( motion to sit in private ) in the course of those proceeding . ( 10 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments to a conclusion as if : ( a ) any reference to a Minister of the Crown be a reference to a designated member ; ( b ) after paragraph ( 4 ) ( a ) there be insert — " ( aa ) the question on any amendment or motion select by the Speaker for separate decision ; " . ( 11 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding on consideration of a Lords Message to a conclusion as if any reference to a Minister of the Crown be a reference to a designated member . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order as if any reference to a Minister of the Crown be a reference to a designated member . miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding on the Bill to which this order apply . ( 14 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a designated member , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 15 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding on the Bill to which this order apply except by a designate member . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 16 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 17 ) no private business may be consider at any sitting to which the provision of this order apply . ( 18 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which proceeding to which this order apply be to take place shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply in respect of any such debate . ( 19 ) in this order , " a designate Member " mean — ( a ) the Rt hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ; and ( b ) any other Member act on behalf of the Rt hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury . today we seek the permission of the House to make time for legislation in the week ahead to reform the system for ministerial severance payment . those payment be first introduce exactly 40 year ago for Ministers in the House of Lords , with rule that be almost identical to the one that now apply to this House as well . Departing Ministers be to receive a quarter of their annual salary , equivalent to three month of pay , provide that they be under the age of 65 , that they have be in post for at least two year , and that they do not return to the job within three week . I have inform the right hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) that I will be refer to he personally in this debate . he be the only Minister of the 97 in question who have claim two severance payment in 2022 - 23 , total almost £ 33 , 000 . the second payment be worth three month ' pay after just seven week in the job as Justice Secretary . do my right hon . friend agree that at the height of a cost of living crisis it be nothing short of a disgrace that the right hon . Gentleman feel entitled to claim so much money from the taxpayer when deliver so little in return ? my hon . friend be spot on . for those on the Government Benches mutter about claim , it do not really matter whether the money be claim , or if it be give to someone and not give back — the point be that the money be still pocket by the right hon . member for Great Yarmouth , and no one be expect the rule to be use in that way . that be the point of this debate . the payment be extend to other Ministers in 1991 base on a recommendation by the then Top Salaries Review Board , which command broad cross - party support . the only change from the previous rule be to remove the two - year qualifying limit , but it be worth note that in every debate that precede the 1991 legislation , MPs remain clear that these payment be intend for the benefit of long - serve Ministers , who be have to make what Geoffrey Howe call " an abrupt and significant financial adjustment … on relinquish ministerial office " . — [ Official Report , 17 January 1990 ; Vol . 165 , c . 311 . ] will the right hon . Lady accept that when our party come to power in 2010 , we cut ministerial pay , and we have keep it freeze ever since ? in the unlikely event of her side get into power , would she commit to maintain that freeze ? if the hon . Lady have a moment to look at the motion before we today , and to consider it in the spirit of fairness and how public money should be spend , I hope that she would agree that the current system have be abuse over the past few year by her colleague in the Chamber and outside it . that be simply not the sort of thing that the public want . they would be appal if they know what be go on with the severance payment we be talk about today . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will make a bit more progress , and then I will give way . we be talk about severance payment today . Government Members may wish to speak about red herring and other issue , but let we talk about the abuse of the severance payment system that we have see over the past few year , because we should take a clear - eyed look at it . we be not seek to scrap those payment , nor should we . as Geoffrey Howe say , they be introduce so that Ministers who have give long and dedicated service to their country could adjust to the loss of that salary . I do not think anyone on the Opposition Benches have any quarrel with that . over the 40 year that those payment have exist , there have never be any previous occasion where it have be open to question that the rule by which those payment be make be wrong . then , however , we come to 2022 - 23 . it be a year of chaos in our politic , unprecedented in modern time . sadly , it be a year in which the current severance scheme have its flaw suddenly expose and its loophole shamelessly exploit . before I address what go wrong with the system in that financial year , I will do something that I find personally unusual , which be to praise some member of Conservative Cabinets . it will be hard for I , and I feel my ancestor start to shift uneasily in their grave , but I want to give credit where credit be due , and that credit go to a small collection of Secretaries of State who , for want of a well phrase , do the right thing when it come to severance entitlement during that year of chaos . I praise the current Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , who be sack as Health Secretary in September 2022 , but reinstate by the current Prime Minister seven week later . what do he do with his severance payment ? he return it in full when he regain his old job , so he deserve praise for that . I praise the current Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) , who resign after two day as Education Secretary in July 2022 , but turn down the £ 16 , 000 - plus severance payment for which those two day have make she eligible , and she deserve praise for that . I even want to praise the right hon . member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , the former Chief Whip , the former Defence Secretary and the former Education Secretary . he claim his £ 16 , 000 - plus severance in 2019 when he be sack for leak top - secret information . he claim his £ 16 , 000 - plus severance again in 2021 , when he be sack for all his various school fiasco . however , he finally turn down his severance payment in 2023 after two week in the Cabinet Office , because he recognise that it would be inappropriate to accept it while under investigation for bullying . so let we praise he for that — if for nothing else . what those example show be that it be entirely possible for individual to choose to waive their severance payment , or return they , when they feel that accept they would not be right . perhaps those individual even reflect that , at the height of the cost of live crisis — which have be greatly exacerbate by the action of their government — it would seem inappropriate to accept thousand of pound from the taxpayer as a reward for the contribution they have make to the chaos . perhaps they realise how much like a smack in the face that would feel to their constituent . either way , those individual do do the right thing . however , the hard fact be — number bear this out — that , for every one case in the last financial year where a Tory Minister decide that accept that severance payment would be inappropriate in the circumstance , in at least six or seven other case the opposite be unfortunately true . that be why we find ourselves here , try to fix a system of ministerial severance that have be bring into disrepute by dozen of its most recent beneficiary . my right hon . friend have mention many Secretaries of State . we also have a short - live Prime Minister , who be entitle to some payment for the rest of her life . should we not also look at whether it be appropriate for people who leave in disgrace to end up with lifelong pay cheque ? my hon . friend make an important point . that be an important argument that will need to be consider . the right hon . Lady be argue that a certain lax culture have grow up under successive conservative Governments that benefit few but taint we all , and I think it go beyond severance pay . my right hon . friend the Member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) propose a private Member ' s Bill — the Elected Representatives ( prohibition of Deception ) Bill , which would have make it an offence for Ministers to knowingly and wilfully lie to the public . be there any chance that an incoming Labour Government might adopt that ? if we be give the great honour of serve the public as the next Government , our Ministers will not deceive the public . we will be straightforward , and we will do our utmost to serve they to the good of our ability . we will be a Government to be proud of ; we just need to have an opportunity . for the purpose of explain our motion , I will go through each of the five category where a flaw in the rule be expose in 2022 - 23 and give one example for each of how someone benefit . Mr Deputy Speaker , I have inform each of they that I be go to be raise their case . before the right hon . Lady move on , will she give way ? I will . I know this be an Opposition day debate , where the Government will get bash — that be part of the convention and tradition of this House . however , on an important constitutional point , I think the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) allude to the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . do the right hon . Lady think that ex - Labour Prime Ministers and ex - conservative Prime Ministers — thankfully I do not think we will ever have a Lib Dem one ; we can agree on that — should have no private office arrangement support by the state ? those people have be at the high level as First Lord of the Treasury , have have access to top - secret and classified material , and will probably be under constant threat for the rest of their life . be she honestly say that a Labour Government would no long support former Prime Ministers of whatever political party ? I be say that this be an important issue that need to be consider . I suggest that perhaps together the right hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) put in for a debate so that we can air these matter properly . today , I want to talk about ministerial severance payment . rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , and then I hope that I will not need to give way to he again . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for give way . be not the fact we be get interesting idea come from Labour Members an example of how the motion before the House be so ill think out ? those idea be not in the motion . do she not agree that this be not the way to create legislation ? I be proud to say that my party be full of good idea , but unfortunately we be unable to put they all into one motion . let we have a little discipline today by concentrate on the motion at hand and the important issue we be raise . we believe that five particular problem be highlight by the chaos in 2022 - 23 . I will go through each of they , give an example and explain why the change we want to put forward will solve those problem , and why we would therefore ask the House as a whole to seriously consider our proposal to ensure that we can pass legislation to change the situation , because it do need to be fix . first , let we look at what I call the short stayer problem . More than two dozen individual occupy Front - Bench role for just nine week at the fag end of the Johnson Government , or just seven week during the bedlam of the Truss experiment , all of whom walk away with three month of severance pay . let we look at the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) as an example . never a shrink violet when it come to call out other , he serve just 49 full day as a Minister in the Department for Education , earn less than £ 3 , 000 in wage , yet when he return to the back Benches he receive almost double that in severance — three month ' severance for 49 day ' work . perhaps the Minister for common sense will tell we whether that make sense to she . secondly , we have the problem of the short - live promotion : individual who find themselves elevate from junior ministerial role to more senior position , and whose severance be therefore calculate not base on the salary they have earn for most of the year , but base on the much high salary they have earn for only a few week . let we think of the example of the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) , who spend a year as Chief Secretary to the Treasury , earn a salary of almost £ 32 , 000 , but then spend seven week as Levelling up Secretary on a salary of more than double that amount . as a result of those seven week alone , the right hon . Gentleman receive severance pay of almost £ 17 , 000 . again , I look forward to the Minister for common sense explain where the sense be in that . thirdly , we have what I might call the quick returner — more than a dozen Ministers who claim their three month ' severance pay after quit the Johnson Government , or be sack by his successor , but who end up return to the Front Bench a matter of week later while still enjoy the benefit of their severance payment . take the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , the right hon . member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , who not only accept three month in severance after only two month as Veterans Minister , but tell Plymouth Live point - blank that he have not accept a severance payment , and then have the sheer chutzpah to return to exactly the same job seven week later without repay a single penny . once again , I hope that the expert on these matter will tell we whether that sound like common sense . fourthly , there be a much small category — I have decide it be good not to give they a name at all . we also see severance payment award in 2022 - 23 to two individual , Peter Bone and Chris Pincher , who leave their front - Bench job while under investigation at the time for act of gross misconduct . the 1991 rule be silent on this issue , and we can only assume that it be think that any individual force to quit in those circumstance would have the basic decency not to accept a handout from the taxpayer . however , I be afraid what the Pincher and Bone case have show we be that we can not rely on the decency of individual like that . finally — perhaps most incredibly — five severance payment in the last financial year be make entirely by mistake because the Government forget to apply the age limit that say no one over the age of 65 can receive one , which be how Peter Bone and Nadine Dorries receive their payment . before the current incumbent of the Cabinet Office tell themselves that they have bring order to all this chaos , it be worth note that the large of those mistaken payment , which be make to a Minister in the Lords , be make not during the chaos of the summer and autumn of 2022 , but in what one might call the cold light of day in January 2023 . the propose change to the severance rule set out in Labour ' s motion would address each of the five issue that I have set out . do my right hon . friend agree that have any of our constituent be face to face with the Department for Work and Pensions in a similar situation to that which she describe , the result might have be different ? any of our constituent struggle to get to the end of the week on their wage packet , and who see the amount of money be hand out — essentially as payment for failure — would be astonish that it be allow . that be why we be try to change the rule today . the right hon . Lady , in her meaningless and bitter speech , be miss the essential point that ought to be at the heart of her argument . when people be struggle , it be gall that someone who already earn a salary of £ 80 , 000 a year for be a Member of Parliament , and more on top of that for their ministerial duty , be give another payment when , for whatever reason — the Prime Minister do not like they or perhaps they have not do a particularly good job — they get a severance package . be the truth of the matter not that labour should be call for no severance package for any Minister when they lose their job ? if our motion do not go far enough for the hon . Gentleman , let I propose that he vote with we tonight anyway , because at least we be head in the right direction . if his colleague vote simply to keep the status quo , he will have a great deal of difficulty explain to his constituent how , give his view , he have allow it to continue . let I move on . we want to make change to deal with the five issue . to deal with short stayer and short - term promotion , Ministers would be pay a quarter of their actual earning over the previous 12 month , not a quarter of their final salary . to deal with the quick returner , our reform would require individual who return to the Front Bench while still enjoy the benefit of their severance payment to repay the corresponding amount . to deal with those who do not deserve any payment , we demand that Ministers who quit while under investigation for gross misconduct or breach the ministerial code have their severance payment withhold unless or until their name be clear . if all those rule have be in place in 2022 - 23 , the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North would have receive £ 748 in severance , not almost £ 6 , 000 . the short - live Levelling up Secretary , the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland , would have receive just over £ 9 , 000 , not almost £ 17 , 000 . the right hon . member for Plymouth , Moor View would have receive £ 1 , 300 , not almost £ 8 , 000 , and the former Members for Tamworth and for Wellingborough would have receive exactly what they deserve — nothing at all . in total , if the proposal in our motion have be in place in 2022 - 23 and the age limit rule have be properly enforce , the total severance bill that year would have be cut by more than 40 % — a saving for the taxpayer of almost £ 380 , 000 . if our rule have be in place , 75 of the 97 Ministers who claim severance pay in that year would have see their payment reduce by an average of just over £ 5 , 000 . that be why our motion be so important , but Government Members may reasonably ask why it be so urgent . why be it necessary to reform the rule in this way ? why do Labour need to take control of the Order Paper ? very simply , if they think what happen in the last financial year be a one - off aberration that could not happen again , they have not be pay attention . do they not know about the plotting of their own colleague and the plan for yet another palace coup against the current incumbent of Downing Street ? yet again in the come month we could see mass resignation from the Front Bench , to put pressure on a weak and fail Prime Minister . yet again we could see a reform - adjacent radical put in his place , eager to engage in experiment with the british economy . yet again , we could see it all go horribly wrong , lead to heaven know what in the aftermath . frankly , if that be how the Conservatives want to spend their time between now and the general election , part of I just want to say , " well , get on with it then . " but a big part of I say that they should not be allow to gamble again with the future of the british people , and they should certainly not be allow to profit again from the result of their own failure . indeed , it would be a shameful indictment of our political system if we be to allow yet another round of excessive and undeserved ministerial severance payment to be make between now and the next election when we have the opportunity today to stop that happen . I appeal to the Conservative Members I mention at the outset of my speech , and the handful of other like they who decide to send back their severance payment in 2002 - 23 , who choose to accept small amount , or who decide to repay part of what they have receive . in the circumstance in which they find themselves , and , I hope , in the circumstance they see their constituent face , they make a personal choice to do the right thing . I hope that at the end of this debate they will make another personal choice and again decide to do the right thing . they have the opportunity today to restore the rule on severance payment to the purpose for which they be originally intend , and to fix the system that , sadly , their colleague have break . if they do not take this opportunity , the conclusion we will have to draw — perhaps the right conclusion after all — be that the only way to get the change we need in this country will be to elect a Labour Government and put on the Benches opposite mps and Ministers who believe in serve their community , not just in help themselves . it have be interesting to hear the Labour party — yes , the Labour party — make the case for the term and condition of worker to be change unilaterally , in one day , and without consultation or a proper review . I be sure that Labour ' s union paymaster will be fascinate to hear the case make by the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) today . I start by make it clear that the motion before the House depart from the fundamental principle that it be the Government of the day — that be the party that win the election , vote in by the public — who be able to determine the business of the House . that be something the House itself have long recognise , in Standing Order No . 14 . by set aside Standing Order No . 14 , the motion would enable the Opposition to bring in a Bill and race it through Parliament by proceed through all its substantive Commons stage in one day . the truth be that if the right hon . Lady be so keen to decide the business of the day in the House , she should not have support her neighbour , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , to become the Prime Minister . give that she do support he , she clearly be not all that keen on be in charge of parliamentary business . although it be sometimes necessary for Parliament to legislate at pace — in exceptional circumstance and in response to emergency — this be not a policy matter that warrant set aside the procedure of the House . to do so would inhibit proper parliamentary scrutiny . we have just have an Opposition day debate on knife crime , which have go through the roof in Sadiq Khan ' s London . do it not say everything about the priority of the Labour party that it propose emergency legislation in respect of this debate and not that one ? perhaps the third minute of her speech will be when the Minister start to talk about the topic , which be ministerial severance pay . the " Minister for common sense " have personal experience of this in 2015 , 2018 and 2020 , and may soon do so again . in the meantime , can she tell we how she decide which of the payment for which she be eligible to accept and which to turn down ? do she think that decision on what to accept should remain at the discretion of the individual , even in case where the individual be guilty of gross misconduct ? the hon . Member have raise a point about redundancy payment , and that be fundamentally what we be talk about . severance pay be a redundancy payment , in that Ministers can be turf out of office without any notice of termination and without any proper consultation . they have be give what would otherwise be call redundancy payment . I entirely agree that people have accept those redundancy payment , just as Labour Ministers do when the Prime Minister change from Blair to Brown , and just as Labour Ministers do when Labour go out of office in 2010 . will the Minister give way ? I will carry on for a little while long . I want to talk about what the opposition be do today , which be , as I say at the outset , seize the business of the day and try to make this a case for emergency legislation , which it be not . so many emergency confront the country and the world , and it be strike that of all those emergency — it could be the middle east , it could be Ukraine , it could be illegal migration — the Opposition deem this to be the most important . we know why that be : it be because they have no plan to deal with any of those big issue of the day . they do not know what to say , they do not have a clue , and they change their mind , flip - flippity - flop , all the time , so they have be reduce to talk about this issue . give the importance that the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury attache to the issue — want to seize the business of the day , want to push through emergency legislation — can she confirm that this will be the first piece of legislation that any new Labour Government would introduce ? no , because we be go to win the vote today . common sense will prevail , and we will know that this have to be sort out now . there be no need to wait for a Labour Government ; you guy can help we to pass this legislation . so it be not go to happen today , but in fact the opposition be not go to do it if they come into power — which , hopefully , they will not . that be how much of an emergency it be . however , there be some good news here . the right hon . Lady be put herself at the vanguard of cut waste , which must be a first for the Labour party . will she take this opportunity to apologise for the private finance initiative scheme that her party inflict on the country and on much of its public service ? will she take this opportunity to apologise for the hundred of billion of pound ' worth of waste ? I will give way to she if she would like to make an apology for those huge amount of PFI waste . could we perhaps talk about the £ 10 billion waste on personal protective equipment ? I really think that the Minister ought to consider talk about ministerial severance reform , but that is , of course , a matter for she . so the right hon . Lady could not apologise . she could not , or do not want to , stop the waste of hundred of billion of pound . I will say this : the Government accept that the current legislation be now a third of a century old , and that this may be an appropriate time to review it and consider change , but this be not the right time or place to take action . proper consideration must be give to new legislation . as member will know , severance pay be govern by legislation . the statutory provision for ministerial severance pay be contain in the Ministerial and other Pensions and Salaries Act 1991 . it have therefore be in place for successive administration , and have be pay to member of all three party who have make ministerial office during this period . under the Act , Ministers who leave office be entitle to a payment equivalent to a quarter of the annual salary that they be be pay in respect of the ministerial office that they be leave . to be eligible for a payment , they must be under a certain age — 65 — and must not be reappointe to ministerial office within three week of leave their previous office . I note — and I thank the right hon . Lady for draw it to my attention — that in 2022 a small number of severance payment be make incorrectly to depart Ministers . I want to make it clear that the Cabinet Office guidance to Departments be that they should seek to recover any mispayment in line with his Majesty ' s Treasury ' s guidance , " manage Public Money " . while the incorrect payment be cause by an administrative error and the former Ministers concerned be at no personal fault whatsoever , it be important that the Government seek to recover that money . I be sure I be not the only one who recall the catastrophic overpayment of tax credit when Labour be last in office , and the fact that many family get into huge difficulty because of that . it be such a shame that the right hon . Lady be not so exercised about that when they be in office . will the Minister give way ? no , because we be talk about waste . we be talk about appropriate measure take place and this faux emergency legislation that the right hon . Lady want to bring in . turn to ministerial severance pay more generally , it be important to note that this be the long - stand policy that successive government from both side of the House have retain . the reason they have retain it that the principle of pay severance remain sound . the Prime Minister , in his constitutional role as a principal adviser to the sovereign , can recommend the appointment and removal of Ministers at any time . this flexibility , necessary as it be within our political system , mean that have a reasonable severance pay policy to reflect the uncertain nature of ministerial office have have wide support from across the House since its introduction . member will be aware that similar arrangement be in place for member of Parliament , who also hold the status of officeholder . in certain circumstance , member of Parliament who lose a seat at a general election be eligible to receive a loss of office payment . the eligibility for the loss of office payment be determine by the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority , which be responsible for set and regulate mp ' salary , pension , business cost and expense . severance payment recognise the unpredictable nature of ministerial office . the fact that a Minister can lose their office with no notice when the Government or a Prime Minister change will inevitably lead to a substantial increase in the money pay out in that financial year — £ 1 million ! from a sedentary position , I get £ 1 million quote at I . I remember , although maybe the right hon . Lady do not , that it be over £ 1 million in 2010 when Labour lose office , and that be quite a long time ago . it be for these reason that the Government do not currently intend to reform severance pay for depart Ministers , although I be happy to review it , as I mention early . the current system respect the essential constitutional principle that minister serve at the discretion of the Prime Minister and that it be right to provide some protection associate with the loss of ministerial office . the principle have apply , as I say , to all government since the Act be pass in 1991 , and we need to be careful not to change policy on the basis of exception that will occasionally occur under government of all form . if the Minister be go to review the system , can she guarantee that it will be review and implement before the next general election ? I be sad to say no I can not , because we have say that it be essential that there be due process on the Floor of this House — not like the Opposition , who want to whisk it through in a day . we be completely transparent about the payment of severance , and all such payment be publish in departmental annual report . in the interest of objective debate , could the Minister please confirm why Ministers above the age of 65 from any of the major party be less deserving than those who be under 65 ? my hon . friend make a good point , and I think that that would be look at under the review as well , should we review this , but the law that be set out at that time stipulate that age . that be something else that I agree would need to be look at . I want to be clear that severance pay can not be look at as a stand - alone issue . it be part of an overall picture that govern payment make to Ministers . more broadly , the Government have consistently demonstrate restraint and always seek to minimise the cost of government , at the same time as modernise ministerial office to bring it into the 21st century . this be most clearly demonstrate in the Government ' s policy on ministerial pay . ministerial salary today be low than they be when this Government take office in 2010 , which in real term constitute a significant pay cut . my noble Friend Lord Cameron introduce a 5 % cut to ministerial pay when he come into office in 2010 . since then , Prime Ministers have ask Ministers to waive the increase in their statutory pay entitlement year on year . for example , ministerial salary be roughly half — that be half — of what they would have be have Lord Cameron not introduce the salary reduction when he become Prime Minister . in April 2010 , Ministers of State earn £ 42 , 370 , which be £ 63 , 594 in today ' s money , yet a Minister of State today receive £ 31 , 680 . I appreciate that the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury do not want to reply to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , but will she confirm today that her party would continue with the ongoing cut in ministerial pay ? that be not what the motion be about , so I be afraid that I can not help the Minister . be she aware that £ 2 . 9 million be spend on severance payment to all the special adviser who lose their job in the same year , 2022 - 23 ? that be well dodged again by the right hon . Lady . she will not confirm that Labour would keep a tight fiscal grip on ministerial pay . obviously , one of the key thing about today ' s motion be waste and expenditure . we will see what happen . as always , money run away with the Labour party . this Government pass the transformative Ministerial and other Maternity Allowances Act 2021 , which for the first time enable Ministers to take pay maternity leave and be replace in their Department . several Members have now benefit from this legislation when in office , and I be sure it will continue to be of immense value . the Government be commit to return to Parliament in due course to set out proposal on extend the Act . I conclude by reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to recover the money pay in error to a small number of former Ministers . I reassure the House that departmental process have be strengthen to ensure that this error do not happen again . for the reason I have set out , the Government do not think there should be wholesale legislative reform on this matter during this Parliament . we believe that a Government commit to the principle of integrity in public life be the most effective way to control the cost of government to the taxpayer . in that spirit , we will continue to demonstrate restraint in how we be pay and we will continue to modernise ministerial office to meet the expectation that the public rightly have of we . the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury could not say whether her party would maintain our cut to ministerial salary , could not apologise for the last Labour Government waste money on PFI scheme and could not say whether this Bill , because it be such important emergency legislation , would be the first piece of legislation introduce by a Labour Government , so we can safely conclude that the Labour party do not care about taxpayer ' money . I thank the Labour party for table this motion , which highlight the difference between this place and reality . nearly £ 1 million in severance pay be hand out during last year ' s political chaos . some Ministers receive severance pay despite be in office for only 38 day . in a 38 - day period , an asylum seeker would receive £ 47 . 96 if they be be house in a hotel . that be enough to pay for First Bus day ticket for nine day , provide that they buy nothing else . in contrast , the former Chancellor would be able to pay for 3 , 309 First Bus day ticket , which be a full bus of day ticket for every one of those 38 day . and that be just from his severance pay . in clear and stark contrast , Scottish Government Ministers have have a pay freeze for the 16th consecutive year . a Scottish Government Minister be currently entitle to £ 99 , 516 — that include their MSP salary , by the way — but , under the voluntary pay freeze , they receive the 2008 - 09 level of £ 81 , 449 . a Cabinet Secretary in Scotland have an entitlement of £ 118 , 511 , but receive £ 96 , 999 . the voluntary reduction be take from net pay and be return to the Scottish Government , to be make available for public spending . a number of Conservative Members mention the freeze in ministerial pay here . accord to the Library briefing , ministerial pay in the House of Commons have be freeze at 2014 level , but ministerial pay in the House of Lords have be freeze only at 2019 level . if the Government be go to appoint secretary of State in the House of Lords , they will cost we more than they do in the House of Commons . Cabinet Secretaries in Scotland and Scottish Government Ministers be each handing back more money to public fund annually than the former Chancellor receive in his severance pay . the Tories be absolutely clear that people can live on universal credit , despite all evidence to the contrary , yet the 38 - day Chancellor accept a severance payment worth nearly four year of UC for a single person over - 25 . the UK Government seem absolutely determined to highlight , at every opportunity , how out of touch they be . they have refuse to zero rate vat on mortgage , yet for 38 day ' work , the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) accept a payment that could cover 70 month , or five and a half year , of the typical owner - occupi mortgage increase , accord to the Bank of England . it be deeply ironic that all homeowner be have to pay for his mistake while he be be reward for they . as people be push into ever - increase poverty , have to make devastating choice between heating and eating , the right hon . member for Spelthorne could fund 280 food parcel from his severance pay alone , and he be far from the only one . Tory and Brexit chaos have not just cause rampant inflation and increase the cost of mortgage , mean that people be have to choose between heating and eating ; it have mean Government reshuffle every five minute , with an Institute for Government worker comment : " I ' m not say there ' s be a lot of ministerial turnover since 2010 , but you could now play an 11 - a - side football match between Ministers for the Cabinet Office and Secretaries of State for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport in that time " . the ministerial trough be institutional , and it be indicative of the rot ingrain in Westminster . the public rightfully deserve and expect value for money , yet with record level of turnover on the Government Benches , result in so many people eligible for severance payment , this be a ludicrous waste of public money during this cost of living crisis . in the eight year since the Brexit vote , there have be 13 Housing Ministers , nine Education Secretaries , eight Home Secretaries , seven Foreign Secretaries , seven chancellor , seven Health Secretaries , seven Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Secretaries and five Prime Ministers . how be it possible that former Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries be accidentally pay £ 17 , 000 in a severance payment ? the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) serve a pitiful 45 day as Prime Minister , crash the UK economy with her fantasy think - tank economic and make the electorate , who do not vote for she , pay for her mistake . well Together say in 2014 that a no vote would bring well , safe , fast change for Scotland , yet all we have see in Westminster be constant chaos , with it mire in the ceaseless rot of corruption and cronyism . I defy anyone to tell folk out there that their life be well now than they be before the independence referendum in 2014 . Westminster be institutionally design to promote the entrenchment and passing of power between a select few hand while enrich the participant . minister be grant extremely broad power , with a lack of oversight by Parliament . we see that once again yesterday during the Finance Bill , where they unilaterally change the Ways and Means resolution after the line - by - line scrutiny debate . we see these thing on a regular basis . the call from the Brexiteers be , " take back power . " they have take back power , but to the Executive , not to Parliament . Parliament be be stymie at every opportunity by this UK Government . when Ministers inevitably fail or be push out due to Westminster ' s political power game , they take a ministerial severance payment . after they be finally evict from their seat by constituent , they can receive cushy money - for - nothing job and reward for the rest of their life . while Ministers in Westminster abuse their position to give contract and public money to their friend and financial backer , these be not failing unique to the Tory party but rather institutional design feature of the Westminster system , which have inherit hundred of year of aristocratic baggage and be entirely unfit as a system for govern a modern country . Labour have promise to reform Westminster from within for over 100 year , promise to abolish the House of Lords , reduce prerogative ministerial power , and now low ministerial severance pay . that promise be not worth the Hansard it be write in . every time the Labour party be elect on a promise to reform Westminster , it instead integrate into the system and dig in to use it for its own end , stack the Lords rather than abolish it or make extensive use of the prerogative power rather than minimise they . when Labour take power again , I have no doubt it will that long tradition of entrenchment . the Leader of the Opposition continue his flip - flopping , and if he become Prime Minister , he will doubtless lose or sack minister . when that happen , they will make just as much use of the ministerial severance pay as their Tory cousin . the only solution be a radical overhaul of Westminster and of the entrenchment and the current position . only a vote for the SNP and independence will finally lead to the reform necessary for Scotland and the rest of the UK to move forward and become modern 21st century democracy that work for all the people , not just overpay politician . if anyone have any doubt that the opposition be not fit to govern this country , that doubt must have be dispel this afternoon . there be many thing they could have choose to debate . it be child ' s Mental Health Week . there be all sort of incredibly important thing go on today about Safer Internet Day . it be the start of National Apprenticeship Week . it be World Cancer Day two day ago . we could have debate the economy or the middle east . as a parliamentary private Secretary , I go to a brilliant debate about the Homes for Ukraine scheme today . but no , they have use their second Opposition day debate to talk about party politic . that be all this debate be about , and it be an appalling waste of taxpayer ' money that we be debate this subject today . the opposition know jolly well , as the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) say , that ministerial severance pay be establish in legislation pass by Parliament in 1991 and have be use by successive administration over decade . it be a statutory entitlement implement by government of all stripe . payment be make and accept by outgo Labour Ministers throughout the Blair and Brown year , as well as by Liberal Democrat Ministers in the coalition Government . my hon . friend refer to the initial legislation in 1991 , but that be follow up , as she be no doubt aware , by the Scotland Act 1998 , which be bring in by Labour and repeat the same approach for Scotland . do she agree that it be the height of hypocrisy from the Opposition to claim outrage now , when they bring in similar legislation themselves ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s brilliant point , which bring I naturally to my next point . the last Labour Government have the opportunity to amend the 1991 legislation in any one of the 13 year they be in office . instead , they choose to do absolutely nothing . even more outrageously , follow Labour ' s defeat in the 2010 election , when the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) leave that infamous note say , " dear Chief Secretary , I ' m sorry , I ' m afraid to tell you there be no money leave . " — it do not say that . it say , " I be afraid to tell you there be no money leave . " that be not what he say . that be an exact quote : " there be no money leave . " I do not mind say it again , because that be the mess that Labour leave we with . the point here be that have say that there be no money leave , what do outgoing Labour Ministers do ? they pocket £ 1 million in that year in severance pay . in today ' s money , that would be £ 1 . 6 million — truly shocking . that be irresponsible then , and their action be 100 % hypocritical today . in stark contrast , when we enter office , what be our approach when we see the mess that Labour have leave we in ? we cut our ministerial salary and have keep they freeze ever since . my hon . friend make an excellent point about Labour , but we have hear from the Scottish National party that somehow it be well north of the border . do she agree that that be surprising give that the Scottish Daily Express say : " SNP spin doctor receive more than £ 200k in ' golden goodbye ' in 2023 as Humza Yousaf rung tiny change . " what do that say about the SNP ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . that be absolutely appalling . we also know that shame SNP MSP , Derek Mackay , who have leave office , claim £ 155 , 000 in expense , include , as I understand it , severance pay . the SNP approach be incredibly hypocritical . while we be sort out Labour ' s mess , cut our own pay and keep it frozen , every single labour leadership candidate in 2010 refuse to hand back their taxpayer - fund severance pay , include the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) and the Mayor of Greater Manchester , both of whom be entitle to £ 20 , 000 , and they still hold elect office today . when we question those severance payment , give the mess that Labour have leave we in , a Labour party spokesman respond by say that it be a pathetic attempt to create a smokescreen around serious economic issue — [ Laughter . ] yes . I would be grateful if those on the Labour Front - Bench team can confirm to the House today that this motion be a pathetic and hypocritical attempt to create a smokescreen around their total lack of a plan for Britain . there be no plan for the economy , no plan to tackle welfare , and no plan to deal with immigration . in fact , we know that Labour would take we right back to square one . as usual , while the opposition be snipe from the sideline and make these cheap political point , we be actually get on with the job of serious government . in the past 14 year , the conservative party have be focus on deliver for the people of Britain . let I remind Labour Members what that delivery look like : well state school than ever before ; more student secure top grade in math , physics and chemistry — will the hon . Lady give way ? I be not far from finished , so I will carry on . there be more student from state school at our good university . school performance be skyrocket up the PISA table , and we now have the good reader in the western world . we also have record employment : 4 million more people in a job than there be in 2010 — that be over 800 job every day . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will not . I be about to finish my remark . we have a national living wage , a welfare system that be simple , fair and well target , more hour of free childcare , include oversee the large single expansion of childcare in english history , and the fast decarbonisation of any major economy , lead the way in renewable , which will be key to our future . I could go on and on . this be a record of which we be extremely proud . we have stick to our plan : we have halve inflation ; we have cut taxis for 27 million work people , worth £ 450 , start last week for an average worker ; and of course we continue to support the most vulnerable in society , keep the triple lock and double the personal allowance . I will conclude by say that any review of the long - stand ministerial arrangement for severance pay should be do properly , with due process . it should not be do in this desperate and political fashion . the Conservatives be deliver for the people of Britain . labour would just take we straight back to square one . I think the good that can be say for the previous speaker , the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , be that she spend six minute and 50 second speak about anything but the motion and then the last 10 second on severance pay . I be sure other than that she be a delightful Member of the House , but on this occasion I be afraid she do not really get there . in support the motion today , I want to highlight a trio of payment that be make during the chaotic period in the autumn of 2022 , which capture the essence of why the rule on ministerial severance be bring into disrepute during that period and how reform can fix the problem . it be impossible to make those point without speak about individual case , as my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) say from the Front Bench , and I have inform two member that I will be discuss the payment give to they as example of what happen . if we cast our mind back to September 2022 , colleague will remember that in the early day of the premiership of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) there be some turmoil in her whip operation . mind you , the early day be swiftly follow by the middle day , and the final day be not very far behind — and it be fair to say there be turmoil all the way through . anyway , in those early day , three assistant Whips be sack and three more put in their place . the appointment be make three day before the mini - Budget and they last just 38 day , until the right hon . member leave Downing Street . the three assistant Whips spend almost their entire time in office prop up a doom regime while it continue to do huge damage to the country — damage for which my constituent be still pay the price in the shape of crippling mortgage payment . in those circumstance , we might have think that those who be appoint by the right hon . member for South West Norfolk would have walk away from their brief time in office feel some measure of contrition , perhaps even shame , at the role they have play in that disastrous Administration , and want only to apologise to their constituent for what they have do . instead , unbelievably , each of the three assistant whip walk away with three month of severance pay — a £ 4 , 479 handout from the taxpayer — after just 38 day ' work . they receive two and a half time more in severance pay than they be pay in salary during those 38 day . at the same time , a number of departmental Ministers receive £ 5 , 593 in severance pay , compare with £ 2 , 248 for their salary in five and a bit week as Ministers . all that happen at a time when people all round the country be struggle to put food on the table , to fill up their car and to pay their bill in the face of a cost of living crisis that those Ministers ' time in office have just make substantially bad . average growth in the UK have be 1 . 5 % , compare with the 2 % when Labour be in office between 1997 and 2010 . that low growth have mean £ 150 billion less in GDP , £ 40 billion less in tax revenue for public service and infrastructure and £ 10 , 000 a year less on average per household for each of those year , across the UK . those be the figure — the price of failure of 14 year of conservative government . when the right hon . member for South West Norfolk crash the economy through her reckless , unfunded mini - Budget , it just turbocharge the damage do . my constituent , and all our constituent , be still live with the consequence of what the then Chancellor , the right hon . member for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) , dismissively refer to as " turbulence " , in the form of high food price and mortgage payment . the premium for economic failure , which be create when the right hon . member for South West Norfolk and for Spelthorne crash the economy , be still price into market today , and private investment in the UK be still at a record low . the scale of severance payment as reward for be part of that disastrous mismanagement of the economy be nothing short of disgraceful . however , it do serve one purpose at least : it make the case for reform indisputable . it be a shame that the Minister choose not to engage with the substantive point about the severance payment system have be show not to be fit for purpose as a result of what happen in 2022 . under Labour ' s proposal , the three assistant whip would have receive not a quarter of their annual salary , but a quarter of their actual earning , reduce their severance payment from £ 4 , 479 to £ 454 , which be almost a tenth of what they originally receive and a much fair and more sensible amount . the hon . member for Southport ( Damien Moore ) be at pain to point out in his recent comment to the Liverpool Echo that the payment he receive be an automatic entitlement — in other word , he be just follow the rule as they stand . the £ 4 , 479 that he receive — compare with the £ 454 that would have be due have the legislation refer to on the Order Paper be in place — really say it all . the hon . member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) make a similar defence to the Lancashire Post , to which she say that severance payment " be govern by act of Parliament " . our proposal would have see her severance payment down from £ 5 , 593 to £ 562 , which be much more proportionate to her time serve . I be more than happy with what both Members say in public , but I hope that they accept that in no other job would the severance payment from which they benefit be allow . that be among the question that the Minister do not address — in what other job be full severance pay available from day one in that way , or in the event of gross misconduct ? those be the reason why the measure propose by my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury be so important . the good news be that Conservative Members , include the beneficiary of excessive payment , have the opportunity to make amend today . the hon . Gentleman be make an interesting point , and I want to ask he to explore it a little more . the immediate availability of redundancy payment , if I can call it that , would not be affect by the motion , so be he suggest that the motion be not fit for purpose either ? it sound to I like the hon . Gentleman be defend the status quo , while we be try to make the system proportionate and fair . he and his colleague will have a chance to do something about this unfair system , which have be show to be completely out of order by what happen in 2022 . those who take advantage of the rule can do something about it by vote with we tonight . rule , to use the word of the hon . member for Southport , can be change , and act of Parliament , to use the word of the hon . member for South Ribble , can be replace . this evening , all the member who benefit from severance payment when the right hon . member for South West Norfolk resign can do something about the excessive nature of those payment . they can take advantage of the opportunity that we be offer and take the logical step of vote to change the rule by support Labour ' s proposal for a fair and more proportionate severance payment system for Ministers . I begin by make a disclosure to the House , which be of course in the public domain and have be for some time : I have receive severance pay in the past . I want to make that clear from the outset . I also want to make it clear from the outset that , in my respectful view , some of the ad hominem attack on name member of Parliament that we have hear damage the institution of politic rather than work in a partisan way . those individual do not do anything wrong : they be part of a system that allocate funding to they , so there should be no legal or moral opprobrium attach to they in their absence , whether they have be notify or not . it be fine to say that the system ought to change , but surely it be not fair to criticise people for be subject to a system that have not be change . as I say , I have receive severance pay , but I serve in Government role of one sort or another for over 10 year , if one include non - ministerial position . in term of ministerial position , I serve as Deputy Leader of the House of Commons , Minister for the Arts , Minister for Transport , Solicitor General , Attorney General for the first time under one Prime Minister , Paymaster General , Minister for the Cabinet Office , and Attorney General for the second time under a second Prime Minister . in fact , I serve under four Prime Ministers in one role or another , and in Cabinet on three occasion . should I not receive severance pay ? the hon . member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) ask where else this would happen in the outside world . well , where else in the outside world would we have a situation where there be no redundancy arrangement , no notice period , no contract between the party and no consultation , and the employee — if they be employee — could be remove without cause ? I be not criticise those thing : that be the way Government work . minister take on those role know that that be the position , so they should not criticise it — that be the way the cookie crumble , and those who do not like it should not take the position . however , there be no point in compare chalk and cheese . the system operate in a different way from the outside world : we have a constitutional situation in which the Prime Minister , whether he or she be Labour or Conservative , have to have the right of hire and fire his or her ministerial team . that be an essential prerequisite of the role , and the way it must work — the only way it can work — be by give the Prime Minister that primus inter pare role , where he or she have that function . I agree with the right hon . and learn Member : minister should get severance pay , as I do when I be a Minister . that be absolutely right , but the motion do not suggest that they should not . he be a former Deputy Leader of the House ; do he think it be right that a Deputy Leader of the House who serve for 81 day should receive three month ' severance pay ? that be the question that we be debate today , not the general principle . I agree that there should be appropriate severance pay , and I think other Labour Members do too , for exactly the reason he have give . when one have a system in law , whether it be create 10 year ago , 30 year ago or 100 year ago , it must apply to all . if the system fall out of favour , it can be review , but the example that the hon . Member have criticise be of someone who serve in a role and be entitle to take a severance payment . as he himself allude to , people in the last Labour Government receive these payment ; in fact , they receive payment that be statistically more generous than have be the case under this government — some £ 1 . 6 million in real term in today ' s price . as have already be say , none of the four Labour leadership candidate in 2010 return their severance pay ; I think they be under some pressure to do so at the time , but decline . when minister have no contract , no notice period and no consultation or redundancy arrangement , and can be remove without cause , it be right that that be differentiate from what happen elsewhere , because there be an increase risk . the right hon . and learn Member make an interesting point , but if working condition be so poor , may I suggest that he join a trade union ? how do the hon . member know that I be not already a member of a trade union ? actually , I be not , but he do not know that . let we talk about trade union , because this motion be rather alien to the concept of what I understand trade union organisation work to do — indeed , I think they would be appal by the motion . by the way , as a lawyer , I have always consider that trade union organisation be very robust in defend their own member and their legal right . they be very robust , and they throw the kitchen sink at it , with the good - quality lawyer and the good - quality legal advice , if they think the case be appropriate . that be how they represent their member , and I think they would be appal by this motion , because they would say that it be contrary to the ethos of how trade union work . if we look at trade union , we see that they use to support Labour — they still do — in the 1890s and 1900 , when Parliament do not pay salary to mps . it be because of trade union that early Labour Members of Parliament — and before that Liberal MPs — could afford to be here at all . in those day , prior to 1911 , if I be not mistaken , Members of Parliament be not pay at all . when they start to be pay in 1911 , they be pay £ 400 a year , at a time when the average salary in this country be £ 70 a year . Labour argue that it be right and proper that those salary should be start , because then everyone could afford to become a Member of Parliament . however , what we have to remember — and I encourage those on the Labour Front Bench to remember it — be that that argument be inconsistent with today ' s argument , because what they would be argue for be that only wealthy people would consider become Ministers . Labour Ministers be earn double what minister have earn under the Conservative Government since 2010 , because my noble Friend Lord Cameron freeze ministerial salary . they have stay freeze since the 2010 Parliament , which have have a major impact . it be also worth note that Labour Select Committee Chairmen and Chairwomen and senior Labour mps on the Panel of Chairs have take salary increase during the course of these Parliaments . I would suggest that be also inconsistent with the thrust of the argument of those on the Labour Front Bench , because if they think it be too much for one , they should say it be too much for all . I think there be some significant inconsistency , and we must bear in mind that we have to serve the public in the good way we can , which mean encourage people to come to this place to serve and to do their duty . I think that Ministers of the Crown — and , in fact , member of Parliament from across the political divide — do come here with a view to do that , and that be why I disagree with the motion . when I see the amount be talk about in this debate , I could not help but think about an organisation call Haringey Giving , which do brilliant work in my constituency . it be set up and manage by resident , and it allow various group to make application to it . in the five year that Haringey Giving have be operate , it proudly boast that it have be able to support 136 local grassroots organisation and help thousand of people in the community through the provision of £ 900 , 000 of funding . that be £ 900 , 000 of funding painstakingly raise and distribute over five year , and it be still not as much as the amount that this Government be able to spend on severance payment in the single year of 2022 - 23 . when I have be knock on door — in recent time I have do rather a lot of that , in really interesting part of the country — one thing that people have feed back to I be that they do not like chop and change . the motion be not , as the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) suggest , a critique of salary for do political work such as be an MP in general ; it be criticise the chop and change of the various government since 2019 . at Christmas , Haringey Giving hold its annual fundraising drive , with local resident and business all play their part , and it manage to raise £ 17 , 000 . that be about the average amount receive by the 20 Cabinet Ministers who claim severance payment in 2022 - 23 . in fact , the right hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) , who have be mention many time today , could have keep one of his severance payment and donate the other to Haringey Giving — if he be listen to the debate , he still have a chance to do that . that would have be double the total it raise in December . I say that because it highlight the difference with the real world and the life of so many of our constituent . when we talk about these severance payment , it be vital to remember exactly what be happen in the country as a whole , which we see at our advice surgery . sometimes family come to the advice surgery and a child have no tooth ; they have stub for tooth because there have be no dental appointment . I have hear from a family who have have a pair of shoe that one child wear to the sixth - form one day and then they be available at the weekend for another child to wear to do a part - time job . this be the sort of child poverty we be talk about . the headline 12 - month inflation rate start the year at 9 % and end it at 10 % , and peak at 11 % in October 2022 , the month in which 38 Ministers claim severance payment . food price rise especially fast , with ordinary family face a 19 % increase in the cost of their weekly shop from March 2022 to March 2023 . these amount of money really matter because they buy thing like food and shoe , and they should not be go into the pocket of Ministers who have fail and who have be through the revolve door and become Ministers again . the average pump price for petrol and diesel hit an all - time high , with petrol rise to £ 1 . 91 per litre in the last week of June 2022 and diesel hit almost £ 2 per litre in the first week of July 2022 , the same week that 21 minister claim severance payment after join the coup against Boris Johnson . of course , there be also mortgage payment . the Bank of England base rate start the year in April 2022 at 0 . 75 % and end the year in March 2023 at 4 . 25 % , with the big spike take place in the wake of the kamikaze Budget . million of household see their mortgage rate soar and million more have feel the pain since their fix - rate deal have come to an end . that pain have be make all the bad thank to the direct action of the Government . so there we have it : 2022 - 23 , a year when family across the country be struggle more than ever in the face of the cost of live crisis — struggle to put food on the table , struggle to fill up their car , struggle to pay their mortgage and keep a roof over their head , face impossible choice and have to make incredible sacrifice . that be without even mention the record peacetime tax burden that the Government have also impose on the country during that period . what be Tory Members do while all this be go on ? they be fight with each other , and scrabble around for promotion , pay rise , severance payment and resignation honour like they be prize in a game show . during that disastrous year for the country , their only priority be look after their own back and fill their own boot . I hope that this evening they will think about their constituent struggle to make end meet , and all the charity in our constituency who work for every penny they raise . they should think about people at the Haringey Giving scheme scraping and strive to raise a few thousand pound . they should show a bit of contrition and vote to let these reform proceed . it have be an absolutely fascinating debate , and I be grateful to the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) for propose this motion , because it have give we an opportunity to explore what responsible government really be . I will tell the House what it be not : it be not about create one - paragraph legislation to get a soundbite on this evening ' s news . one need only listen to the debate that we have have to see how the current drafting of the motion be totally inappropriate . it make only one recommendation . it state that retire Ministers should " receive an amount equal to one - quarter of their earning over the previous 12 month as a Minister , minus any period cover by a previous severance entitlement , where that be low than an amount equal to one - quarter of the annual salary pay to that Minister before their departure " , but that apply only to those under the age of 65 . however , in this relatively empty Chamber we have hear several suggestion as to why that be inappropriate — whether it do not go far enough or it be miss important addition . this be a serious issue and an area that could do with review . my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) suggest from the Front Bench that the Government be open to review it , but this be absolutely not the right way to do it , as this debate have demonstrate , and we need only look at the contribution from the hon . member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) . he fairly raise the issue of the prime ministerial pension or severance payment , which continue beyond the moment of retirement . it be not just a one - off payment , but continue for the rest of his or her life , as I understand it . that be a perfectly proper area for review , although it be not mention in this motion . the hon . member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) make the very good point — I intervene on he at the time — that the entitlement come from day one . be that reasonable ? my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) recognise that there be a contradiction . those under the age of 65 be entitle to these severance payment , but time have move on ; we work much later , and the retirement age be rise to 67 and then to 68 . there be an article in the Times just yesterday suggest that in future year it might rise to 71 , yet the legislation have this arbitrary figure of 65 — why ? that be a perfectly reasonable area to explore as part of a wide review of a piece of legislation that be perhaps come towards the end of its natural life and need to be review . this motion , however , be not the way to do it . Labour Members cobble together this draft last night when they be think , " what ' s a good wheeze that we can have to create a soundbite or a bit of a line in our social medium content this evening , say ' conservative vote against … ' ? " that be not legislation , and in my submission it be particularly inappropriate to use the exceptional mechanism of disapplye Standing Order no . 14 to achieve it . there be many benefit to Brexit , but one of the cost be the adoption of this mechanism to interrupt the working of Parliament by disapplye Standing Order no . 14 . if that disapplication be acceptable in any situation , it be in exceptional and urgent situation , not to get a soundbite for the evening news . I be not stand before the House say that this motion and this legislation will fix every single issue that people can possibly think of in relation to the payment of Members of Parliament in every circumstance , but it will at least deal with the situation whereby someone can work as a Minister for two month , get three month ' severance pay and then seven week later go back to exactly the same job and essentially be pay twice . that be what this legislation be here to stop . surely the hon . Gentleman can support that . as I say at the start of my speech , there be element where there be genuine cause for review , but if we follow the right hon . Lady ' s train of thought , we would have thousand upon thousand of one - paragraph act clog up the legislation . we need to do well than that . with responsible government , which be what we on the Government Benches try to focus on , we review appropriately , we use advice from civil servant and then we propose legislation . beyond the poverty of Labour ' s motion drafting , there be the wide issue of ministerial pay and value for money . as my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) point out in her good speech , when the Conservatives come to power in 2010 as part of the coalition , it be not a case of just accept what have go before . the Government , under the leadership of David Cameron , cut ministerial salary by 5 % . more importantly , every single year since then — throughout the coalition period and the Conservative Government period — ministerial salary have be freeze . let we look at value for money and the difference we get between a Labour Administration and a conservative one . I see the Labour Whip , the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) , be in his place . in 2010 , under Labour , he would have benefit from a salary of £ 40 , 926 . [ hon . member : " he doesn ' t get anything . " ] under the Conservatives , that equivalent position — if he be in government — receive a salary of £ 17 , 917 . for parliamentary under - secretary of State , Labour Members pay themselves £ 48 , 270 in addition to their parliamentary salary . under the Conservatives , that have be reduce , in modern term , to £ 22 , 375 . at Minister of State level , under the conservative they be pay £ 31 , 680 ; under Labour , they pay themselves the equivalent of £ 63 , 594 — they would have have no trouble with their mortgage payment . Cabinet Ministers under the Conservatives be pay an additional £ 67 , 505 ; Labour think it appropriate to pay theirs £ 122 , 598 . we have hear how the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) say there be no money leave , and now I be begin to understand where it all go . we come to the position of Prime Minister . this Prime Minister be pay an additional £ 75 , 440 . labour Prime Ministers think it appropriate to pay themselves £ 204 , 329 , in today ' s money , on top . when we add the Pensions Increase ( Pension Scheme for Keir Starmer QC ) Regulations 2013 — the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) have his own special pension arrangement from his work as Director of Public Prosecutions , disapplye any lifetime allowance for he , not for anyone else — to £ 204 , 329 for be Prime Minister , plus his MP ' s salary of £ 86 , 584 , it be no wonder he vote Labour . he can afford to be a socialist . the question for Labour be , will it commit today to continue the freeze on ministerial salary ? the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury be ask that by my hon . friend the Member for Southend West , and she be unable to answer it . I give she the opportunity again to answer it , and she refuse . if she do not know the answer , perhaps she can write to I . I don ' t know the answer — I be do this debate . why can she not commit to that ? my hon . friend be make a brilliant speech . [ interruption . ] he absolutely be . would he like to comment on Labour Members ’ conversion on the road to Damascus , with their sudden desire to tackle something they have 13 long year to do ? not only do they not do it , but they go on to add to the system . I be grateful for that intervention . it be mention early — once , if not twice — that in 2010 the Labour party leadership candidate be invite to return their severance payment , have refuse to do so . the suggestion that they should be describe , on behalf of the Labour party , as " pathetic " . this motion be half - baked . we have see over the course of a couple of hour a number of interesting suggestion that could apply to potential legislation in this event . it be clearly an improper use of the disapplication of Standing Order No . 14 . look at the Labour Benches : if it such an emergency , why be those Benches so bare ? even Labour Members of Parliament do not think that this be urgent . I have no hesitation in vote against this motion and I invite everyone else to do the same . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) in this debate , which — I have to take issue with the Minister on this — be important . it be an opportunity for which I thank the Labour party . I do not mean it be an opportunity to throw criticism at Ministers who be sack — all 147 of they , I think it be , in one year . it be not an opportunity to do that because , as the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) point out , a lot of they do actually hand back the money they be give ; nor be it an opportunity to throw brickbat at the Labour party and say , " you didn ' t do this while you be in government , and you think this about ministerial salary . " above all else , this debate be an opportunity to say to the constituent out there who come to we every week — who be struggle to pay their mortgage and rent ; who have be make redundant and do not have another job with another salary that they can fall back on when they get redundancy payment — that we appreciate what be happen . this be a terrible period for the country . it be chaotic ; it cost a fortune . we be look at prevent it from ever happen again . that be what today should be about : put ourselves in the place of those constituent and think what they might be think watch this debate right now . I have to say , I be acutely aware that my constituent be probably watch and say to themselves what quite a few people have say to I over the year — I be sure this have be say to many other member present too — which be that too many of we be only in it to line our own pocket . we have sit here today and debate redundancy for Ministers and complain about ministerial salary in a country face a cost of living crisis , where people can not pay their energy bill . I be sorry if it sound like I be take a schoolmarmish attitude to this matter , but I be slightly embarrassed that any of we could think that this subject be not worth review . the hon . Lady make some powerful point — I hope I make similar point clear in my speech — but give her view on the cost of living crisis , do she agree that the freeze on ministerial salary should be maintain into the future ? I be actually more concerned with redundancy payment , which this debate be about . the level of ministerial salary be something that should be debate on its own , and should be the subject of regular review . what pain I be that I have constituent who , when they be make redundant and get the statutory minimum , have nothing to fall back on . when minister be sack for incompetence , they still have the salary for the job they be actually send here to do , which be to serve as a Member of Parliament . they have the privilege of serve as a Member of Parliament ; they then get pay more for the extra privilege of be a Minister . I think a lot of the public watch this debate today will be ask , " they get a salary for be a Minister ? they get redundancy payment for be a Minister ? " we need to think about this very seriously . we need to think about what our constituent will be think . I do not want to throw brickbat at individual , but I will just take one example very briefly : when the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) resign as Prime Minister , her golden goodbye be more than the minimum salary in this country . it would have go a long way for a lot of family . we should be think about what those family think about that , not what we think about or whether the Labour party or the conservative party be wrong , or the SNP — frankly , we should not take any lecture on financial probity from that party . we should be think about what our constituent think . for many , it would have feel like a kick in the tooth . they could not pay their mortgage and they be struggle to pay for their child . they see — this be not my judgment , but theirs — dozen of conservative mps rake in thousand of pound in severance pay , completely down to the chaos that the Government cause during a cost of living crisis . to our constituent , it would have feel like taxpayer ' money be pay for the revolving door of Ministers . in their view — and mine — the Conservatives trash the economy , but our constituent be pay for it . that be why these payout have to stop . I completely respect the member who have pay they back — we should recognise that that be the right thing to do . they should be stop because , as have be say several time today , the legislation be introduce in 1991 . it could have take no account of the sort of situation that we would see in 2022 - 23 , because it be beyond anyone ' s imagination that such a situation would have arise — we do not take account of it when it happen . today we have an opportunity to rectify that . we have an opportunity to say that there be a unique set of circumstance that the 1991 legislation do not foresee . we can have a review and we can look at it , but we need to recognise that when million of family in this country be at their low point , they look at the television and see Ministers who have work for a few day , and be sack for incompetence or fall out with the boss , get thousand of pound more , when they get nothing . the Liberal Democrats have proposal . there should be a major overhaul of ministerial severance pay . mp who have resign , for break the ministerial code in particular , should not be able to claim severance pay . minister should have to serve in post for a reasonable period of time , and payout can not be claim if they be reappointe to the Government within a year . none of that be unreasonable . More than anything else , it would give we the opportunity to go out there and look our constituent in the face and say , " no , we be not in it to line our own pocket , we will not take anything that we don ' t deserve , and we will not take for grant the privilege of be here and expect more than you think we deserve . " if damage the economy and people ' s living standard , as well as degrade our health service , council and other public service , be not enough , this Government have also enrich themselves and cost the taxpayer close to £ 1 million as a result of their sheer incompetence and infighting . we have find out that minister — some of whom be in post for only a matter of week , face serious accusation or be ineligible through age — have receive handsome sum of taxpayer ' money . the question on my lip , and no doubt the lip of many of our constituent , be : why be Ministers give such special treatment ? just one day in post as a Cabinet Minister entitle an individual to £ 16 , 876 as a severance payment . for one day in the job for a Minister of State , it be £ 7 , 920 . one day as a parliamentary under - Secretary of State get they £ 5 , 594 . these be vast sum of taxpayer ' money available only to a select few , and they come with absolutely no caveat for performance , conduct or length of service . we do not disagree with the principle of loss of office payment to Ministers ; like all worker , they should be entitle to some form of payment in the event of suddenly lose their job and income through no fault of their own . however , I suspect many of my constituent will not have much sympathy for that , give that those in such a position will still have their mp ' s salary to fall back on , and we know that some member have other source of income . those salary be well in excess of what most of our constituent earn . be a Minister be not easy , I be sure , but that should not distract from the fundamental issue that the treatment give to those in governmental position be completely different from that give to the wide public — even the member of the public work in the very same Departments that those minister serve . one person who can not fall back on their MP ' s salary be Peter Bone , who be the Deputy Leader of the House for 81 day and receive a redundancy payment , even though he be over 65 , of £ 5 , 593 . he be no long the MP for Wellingborough , but should we not be tell whether he have pay the money back , not least because there be to be a by - election in that constituency in a few day ' time ? I thank my hon . friend for make that very good point . I be sure Peter Bone ' s former constituent , many of whom will have have call from the Department for Work and Pensions when benefit overpayment be make and they have to pay they back , will expect he to have do exactly the same as they have to do . it be clearly a matter of public interest . do my hon . friend agree that people who have £ 1 , 000 to make a bet — on anything — may be a bit out of touch with how most people live their life in this day and age ? yes , anyone who can afford to wager that sort of sum on anything , never mind a matter as important as national public policy , do not experience the life most of our constituent live . in the 2022 - 23 financial year , four minister leave office after face allegation of misconduct or for breach the ministerial code . two receive the full severance payment , one select a reduce payout , and another turn it down altogether , but regardless of the circumstance of their dismissal , they be entitle to those payment as a right . all those force out of their position while face allegation of misconduct or fall below expect standard be entitle to payment total ten of thousand of pound . that only half of they take the money be immaterial ; what be at issue be the principle that those individual have an entitlement that no one outside Government have access to . in any other workplace , an employee against whom gross misconduct allegation be uphold would surely expect to be dismiss immediately without pay . likewise , if they have be find to have act in a way that be below the standard expect of they , they would be liable to dismissal with no automatic right to compensation . in the real world , the only protection offer to an employee who have be dismiss for reason other than gross misconduct be a statutory notice period , which that employee still have to work — unlike Ministers , who do not have to work a notice period — and the notice period be just one week until an employee have two year ' service . in stark contrast , minister have , from day one , minute one , an automatic entitlement on dismissal to a quarter of their salary without even have to work any notice period . those be day one right that most people can only dream of have . the evidence be clear when we look at the eyewatering sum Ministers have gobble up , in some case qualify for they after only a matter of week ' service . our analysis find that a total of 57 Ministers be in post for less than three month before take their ministerial severance payment . to put it another way , they be able to cash in on their party ' s chaos and receive more money in severance pay than they earn do the job in the first place . I will say that again , because I find it absolutely staggering : 57 Ministers get pay more for leave the job than they be pay for do it . that sum up what a shamble the last few year have be . the story do not end there though . there be now nine former Ministers who spend a grand total of just 37 day as a Minister in their whole career , all within that disastrous 44 - day lettuce premiership , which we be still feel the effect of . when they be effectively sack by the current Prime Minister , they be all allow to pocket £ 5 , 593 — not far off three time the amount they earn actually do the job . a government who hit the pocket of million of Britons with their unfunded tax cut also hit the public purse with these giveaway . in the real world , thank to this Government ' s lack of regard for worker ’ right , an employee have to be in a job for two year before they get any kind of compensation . that be an outrageously long period . in addition , for ordinary people , after two full year of continuous service , the redundancy payment be modest compare with what Ministers can expect . depend on the age of the individual , between eight and 12 year of continuous service be require to entitle they to 12 week ' redundancy pay , which be the equivalent of what Ministers be entitle to no matter how long they have serve . it be gall that Ministers who have serve for a matter of week be able to claim a level of payment that it would take those rely on statutory protection up to 12 year to accrue — and let we not forget that if this be someone ' s only wage , the commitment make on the back of it be likely to be substantial , which mean that the sense of jeopardy if thing go wrong be palpable and the consequence of failure be real . the deal offer to Ministers who be effectively make redundant have none of those string attach . I think it abundantly clear that the generosity of the 1991 Act have be test beyond break point over the course of the past two year . I can not believe that when the Major Government introduce the Act , they ever think we would have such a rapid turnover of Ministers — it be hardly a basis for good government — but , as we know , many convention have be test to the limit in recent year . at the time of its introduction , the condition in the rule that outgoing Ministers can only receive the payment if they do not return to the Government within three week be probably see as an extremely unlikely scenario — after all , ministerial appointment be not mean to be a carousel — but we now know that 20 Ministers decide to take , and keep , their severance payment despite find themselves return to a Government role within three month of their initial departure , and some return even more quickly than that . it just show how much the Tories love fire and rehire , although in the real world the worker do not become thousand of pound well off as a result . perhaps Ministers think that everyone get thousand of pound for no reason when fire and rehire happen to ordinary people . that , I think , be the only possible explanation of why they allow that outrageous practice to continue . this money merry - go - round be self - evidently against the spirit of the " loss of office " system and the original Act . the severance payment be design to help an individual to make the financial transition after be in the government , not to be effectively a bonus for Ministers who be temporarily out of the fray . those who draw up the rule simply could not have foresee the level of chaos to which the Government have subject we . it be hard to escape the feeling that there be a profound injustice in the system and the way in which it be exploit in 2022 . nearly £ 1 million of public money be hand out in the form of severance payment during that year , a figure which , have the reform that we be propose today be in place , would have be reduce by 40 % to just over £ 550 , 000 . I return to the question " what make a Minister so special ? " be a couple of week of be a Minister equivalent to the eight or even 12 year ' service that our constituent would have to give to receive the same level of payment ? I think we can all agree that that should not be the case . this be not just about level down Ministers ' payment ; it be about improve worker ’ right , and our new deal for work people will transform working condition for everyone in the country . I want to make a point , which I think be important , about the lack of transparency surround these payment . my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) have already mention the payment to the former Member of Parliament for Wellingborough . I accept that this have be the case for many year , but we only find out what payment have be make by a particular Department when it publish its annual report for the precede financial year , which department be not require to do until 31 January in the subsequent financial year . anyone who have recently file a self - assessment tax return will note that the annual report work on exactly the same timetable . by 31 January , people must report on what their financial situation be at the end of March in the previous year — although I suspect that department do not experience the frustration experience by my constituent who wait for hour on end to speak to someone at the end of the HMRC helpline . the reason it be only today that we be debate the final severance bill of £ 933 , 000 be that we only learn about the final group of payment last week , when the Department of Health and Social Care publish its report add another £ 41 , 000 to the total . however , this also mean that we be eight week away from the end of the 2023 - 24 financial year , and we do not yet know whether a single severance payment have be claim by any of the Ministers who leave their job in that year . we know that several Cabinet Ministers have have to resign in disgrace or have be sack , but we do not know whether their bad behaviour be reward in the same way as other Ministers ' action . what we do know be that the last reshuffle , in November 2023 , create a theoretical severance entitlement of £ 112 , 000 , although we do not know how much of that be claim or by whom — and here be the crucial point : as thing stand , we be not entitle under law to be tell any of the answer to those question until 31 January 2025 , which be , of course , beyond the final date by which a general election must be hold . in other word , a number of former Ministers will be stand for re - election but taxpayer will not have the right to know what severance payment they receive over the previous year . if we can not even have transparency , we ought to at least have some reform . the frequency of reshuffle over the past few year have take the idea of Government instability to a new level — a level that frankly make a mockery of we all — and when that absurdity not only have no negative consequence for those in charge but see they reward for their misdemeanour , it be little wonder that so many member of the public look at this place and think it be inhabit by people who be totally out of touch with reality . a Minister lose their job have none of the risk attach to it that many of our constituent face every day , include the uncertainty of not know whether they will be give enough hour next week to put food on the table because they be on a zero - hour contract , the risk that because they be in bogus self - employment they have no comeback if they have a dispute with the company , and the fact that they have to be in a job for two year before they get any protection against unfair dismissal . precariousness , risk and uncertainty be the define characteristic of work for too many , but the define characteristic of Ministers ' job be reward , and this reward come whatever the length of service and whatever the reason for their departure . that be why so many of my constituent feel that there be one rule for the elite and another for everyone else . we know that in most workplace if you break the rule you be out , with no compensation . here , if you break the rule , you might be out , but you might be back again a few week later , but either way you still win because you can expect a handsome payoff , no matter the reason for your departure . we have a Government who be literally reward bad behaviour . it be no wonder so many people look at this place and think politician have no understanding of how the real world work . it be about time we refresh the way we do politic and put the service of the public ahead of the service of ourselves . I be pleased to add to the important point that have already make by my right hon . and hon . friend and thoroughly ignore by Conservative Members . I want to look specifically at the propose reform relate to how the severance payment should be calculate for outgoing Ministers . when the rule be introduce , I be confident that the expectation be that any individual claim three month of severance pay would almost certainly have serve a decent length of time in that post . in fact , to be sure of that , I look back at the second Reading debate of the Ministerial and other Pensions and Salaries Bill 33 year ago this week . I be strike by the word of Joe Ashton , the legendary Labour MP , who be unhappy at the idea that a Minister could receive three month ' severance after " have have possibly only two year in a ministerial job . " — [ Official Report , 31 January 1991 ; Vol . 184 , c . 1147 . ] only two year in a ministerial job ! can you imagine if Joe have know that , 33 year on , Members in the Whips ' Office would be claim three month ' severance after just 38 day in the job ? it be daft , it be wrong and it be a betrayal of the people who send we to this place . can you imagine if we have tell Joe that Cabinet Ministers would be claim almost £ 17 , 000 each after just nine week as a Secretary of State ? I have no doubt that if the mp who agree those rule in 1991 have know how they would be abuse three decade later , they would have design the rule differently , and I be confident that those rule would have look something like the proposal before we today . first , this reform would say to a Minister , if you have serve only a few week on the Front Bench , your severance will be calculate at a quarter of a few week ' salary , not a quarter of a full year ' s salary . that be clear , sensible and fair . secondly , when a Minister have serve most of the year at junior level but have be elevate to the Cabinet for a few week , this reform would say that their severance should be calculate as a quarter of their actual earning over the past year , not a quarter of just their final annual salary . again , that be clear , sensible and fair . critic of these change might argue that what happen in 2022 - 23 be a one - off and do not warrant wholesale change in the rule . they might say that Joe Ashton do not envisage Ministers claim three month ' severance after less than three month ' work , but he also do not envision there be three different Prime Ministers in the space of 16 week . abnormal circumstance produce abnormal result . I accept that , but once a loophole in the rule be reveal , the loophole ought to be close , and when that loophole be as grossly abuse as we have see in the last financial year , we have an absolute duty to act on it . we owe that to the british taxpayer , and we owe it to our predecessor in this House , to Joe Ashton and all those who could never have contemplate that the law they pass in 1991 would be use , or even abuse , in this way . as the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) make clear , minister do not lose their day job when they be sack or decide to resign . they still have their £ 86 , 000 a year salary as a Member of Parliament , and surely that be enough . I be fully behind this motion , but I feel it could have go a little far on the related issue of the public duty cost allowance pay to former Prime Ministers after their departure from office . my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) raise this early but , for those unfamiliar with the allowance — I hope nobody in the Chamber be , but the vast majority of taxpayer in my constituency and around the country will be — the current rule stipulate that , when a Prime Minister leave their post , they be entitle not just to a one - off severance payment of almost £ 19 , 000 but to a payment of £ 115 , 000 every single year for the rest of their life , to assist they in their future work . the right hon . member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) challenge my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) on whether she would remove from former Prime Ministers the money for their security . no Opposition Member would do so , but the House will be interested to know that the Government website have something to say about this : " these cost can include manage an office … handle correspondence as a former Prime Minister ; and support with visit and similar activity . the allowance be not pay to support private or parliamentary duty , nor be it use for security purpose . " agree with we would therefore not be a problem for the right hon . member for the Wrekin . as with the severance payment we be debate today , it do not matter how long someone have serve as Prime Minister , and it do not matter the circumstance under which they depart . the law say that , once they have hold that position , the public duty cost allowance be theirs for life , which have , of course , leave we in the frankly ridiculous position where the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip be able to claim the allowance despite bring disgrace to his office and shame on this House , and where the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , who I have inform , will receive £ 115 , 000 a year from the taxpayer towards her public duty cost after spend just seven week in the job . that be £ 3 , 200 a year , every year of her life , for each day she spend in office . the expression she make famous in relation to the high level of fruit and cheese import be very apt : " that be a disgrace ! " the right hon . Lady be relatively young , and I wish she a long life , but she could end up take million from the taxpayer over the next three , four or five decade . yes , that be a disgrace . there be no public scrutiny of this allowance , unlike for our office cost allowance , which can be claim in addition to this huge sum of money . to my mind , both former Prime Ministers have bring the public duty cost allowance into disrepute , just as surely as some of their colleague have bring severance payment into disrepute . I think there be a strong case for reform both system , rather than just the latter . it be my birthday today , and I can think of no high honour on this day than be call to speak in the House of Commons . I consider it an enormous honour to serve as the Member of Parliament for the good and amazing people of Putney , Southfields , Roehampton and Wandsworth town . I be speak about 97 Ministers who must have think all their birthday have come at once in the summer of chaos , when they be hand additional sum that be excessive and undeserved . we be throw a light on the ministerial severance pay scandal today . this debate ' s importance have be question by Conservative Members , but I say it absolutely be important . indeed , it go to the heart of our democracy . when we stand here in the House of Commons — even on our birthday — and when we go out into our constituency to ask what issue we should take back to vote on in this House , it be all base on the trust and confidence of our constituent . issue such as the additional , excessive and undeserved ministerial severance pay bring this House into disrepute and question the confidence that our constituent have . the late poll of trust by Ipsos show that only 9 % of voter trust politician to tell the truth . that be the low level since Ipsos start ask that question in 1983 , and it be down from a pretty low bar of 12 % in 2022 . in June last year , research by the Institute for Public Policy Research show that just 6 % of the public have full trust in the current political system . those be sober statistic , and it do not have to be this way . the long this government cle on to office , the more out of touch they be and the more people feel that it be one rule for they and another for the rest of we . the complete Tory chaos of the summer of 2022 have have a long - term effect on our economy , with crippling mortgage bill for my constituent . it also result in a summer of huge payoff for Ministers who waltz in and out of office , have do very little , because they do not have the time and ability to do much . they pick up not only extra pay for that time in office , but then the severance pay . let I give a real - world example now . I have be campaign for a long time for my constituent on the cladding crisis . all through that summer , that issue be , in effect , put on hold because there be only temporary Ministers in place ; they know they would not be in power for very long , so they could not make any decision . a whole summer be lose on an issue of huge importance to my constituent . so we be not just deal with an abstract issue about pay and condition , because that summer of chaos have have real - world consequence . I thank my right hon . friend the shadow Attorney General for uncover the extent of this and the fact that in 2022 - 23 alone , the total bill for Ministers ' severance pay be an unacceptable £ 933 , 000 . many have their job for just a few week in the die day of Boris Johnson ' s time or during the doom 45 - day premiership of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) — I inform she I would be mention she . they receive three month ' severance pay , but one return to the Cabinet after six week , another after two month , another after three and a half month and another after four month . one return to exactly the same job nine week after leave , but they still receive the full 12 week ' severance pay . this labour motion would stop that and reduce the amount of severance pay for serial Cabinet returnee . the amount should not be three month ' pay regardless of time serve . some Ministers serve for just seven week and receive the full three month ' pay . fifty - seven Ministers serve for less than the three month . some have return the money and , as other member have say , that be to be commend . however , many have not do so , and we do not know the extent of how many have return it , because , as have be point out , we will not receive the departmental account for a long time . five Ministers also receive a total of almost £ 50 , 000 despite be ineligible because they be over 65 . whether or not be 65 should have any bearing on someone receive severance pay be an issue for another day , but the fact that this be deliver incompetently , as well as wrongly , be an issue . I would like to make the comparison with Lord Rooker , who serve for 26 year in this House as the Member for Perry Barr and have serve with equal distinction in the other place for more than 20 year since . he be a hugely dedicated parliamentarian and public servant . he give 11 and a half year ' continuous service as a Minister , from May 1997 to October 2008 , before he finally step down , at the age of 67 . despite that length of service , he receive no severance payment , because those be the rule . yet under the current rule someone can be a Minister for two day and still receive three month ' severance pay . the rule be not intend to apply to the circumstance we see in the last two year , and they need to be reform , as the Minister say in her opening remark . while we would welcome such reform , we do not believe the Government be willing to undertake they , which be why we have bring forward the motion . for far too long , Conversative Ministers have be pay off for jump aboard a sink ship . that be nothing short of a complete waste of taxpayer ' hard - earn money , and they have bring a system put in place in 1991 into disrepute . labour be call for urgent action , because we can not afford another million - pound bill if the late conversative Prime Minister can not keep his party together . all this come at a time when the country have be go through the bad cost of live crisis in generation . the draining of resource be simply disgraceful . I run a community centre before I become an MP , so I think about the amount we spend on different project and the good those project bring to our community , compare to the money that have be waste . there be a feeling on the doorstep that we be all on the take . the policy on ministerial severance pay add to that feeling . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech , as always . what hit home for I be the fact that the payment of some £ 33 , 570 make to the right hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) be almost identical to the mean average salary of a UK citizen , yet that be just a bonus payoff . do my hon . friend agree that be an outrage ? I agree , as would all our constituent . it do not seem right that in many case those large sum of money have be pay out for such a short term of service . that be not what the system be design to do , so the system must be reform . it be high time that the system , expose by the conservative summer of chaos that result in nearly £ 1 million pay out to a conveyor belt of Tory Ministers , be review . to ensure the public get good value for money from their Government Ministers , Labour be make sensible and reasonable proposal today , which should be support by all member of the House . labour will change the rule so that fail minister who have be in post for only a matter of week be no long entitle to a quarter of their final top annual salary . instead , they will receive a quarter of their actual earning as a Minister over the previous 12 month , minus any period cover by a previous severance entitlement . if they return to a ministerial position after three week but within a period equivalent to the number of day of salary they be pay in severance , they must return the correspond amount of their severance payment . at the moment , that be up to the good will of a Minister who , out of the goodness of their heart , return the money . the system should not be leave like that — it should be clearcut . labour will also ensure that any Minister who have have to leave their job while they be be investigate for misconduct have their severance suspend , and then cancel altogether if the allegation be uphold . we should not have to put forward this legislation : the reform should be obvious and should have be introduce as soon as the system be bring into disrepute by former member . it should not be up to the Opposition to call out the Government on the failure of the system . labour will go much far , if we have the honour of become the next government . we will introduce an integrity and ethic commission to clean up our politic , because trust in our politic have plummet to an all - time low in recent year . it be up to we in the Labour party to clean up politic , to restore trust and to show that it be not one rule for they and another for we . we be put the Government on notice : if they will not clean up our politic , Labour will . I do not know whether I be alone in find the contribution from those on the Government Benches rather prickly and defensive . I listen to the opening speech of the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , the Minister for common sense , or rather the Minister for nonsense today , and not only do it not touch on the motion at all — a theme follow by almost every Conservative Member who speak — but it be simply very poor . maybe she want to show her disdain for the motion by instruct her office to draft something of that quality , but I think that be unfair , because what the shadow Attorney General and other have do in prepare for the debate be actually quite a lot of detailed work about 97 member of the Government over a relatively short period . the motion do not propose punitive remedy . the motion would simply remove the abuse from the system . it be not against the principle of severance — rather confusingly , the shadow Attorney General have be criticise for that by Conservative Members — and it address specific anomaly . it address , first of all , a mistake . to be fair to the Government , they accept that , where a mistake have be make , the money pay in error should be refund . I think that we can all agree on that . the motion also address what have be describe as the Bone - Pincher anomaly , which be where there have be clear misconduct . I think it would be quite difficult for Conservative Members to defend that behaviour . the shadow Attorney General have also identify excessive amount of pay , which be either where the Minister have serve for a short period of time , or where their salary have go up dramatically and their severance pay be base on the end salary , which be substantially high than what it be . finally , the motion address where a Minister have be sack or have resign and have receive their three month ' money and then be reappointe to the same or a very similar job within those three month . in that case they should not get double bubble , as it be . this be perhaps the easy area to understand and I can not see any objection to any of that . it be very close to be unjust enrichment in all case , and the remedy for that be restitution . it be to provide redress in the event that one party have receive a benefit from another in circumstance where it would be unjust for the recipient to retain that benefit . the donor here be the taxpayer , and the recipient , with very little excuse , be 97 Ministers . there have not be , as the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) say , ad hominem attack . yes , of course we have to identify individual Ministers in that way , but it be the collective system that be be criticise . some may say that 2022 - 23 be an exceptional year — let we see what happen this year , shall we ? we might be in for another exceptional year . but even if that be an exceptional year and the sum of £ 1 million , which be a very large sum of money , be not repeat , there be a principle at stake here . I could run through all 97 case , but I could not be bother to email all the office in order to do that . I be already email the office of the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) anyway , because he spend most of his time canvass in my constituency now — at least the part that I be transfer to he — and I spend a lot of my time canvass in his . I think that I would also say that I be go to mention he in this debate . it be nothing personal ; it never be between neighbour in that way . none the less , his be a pretty clear case : he back the wrong horse when the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) be elect Prime Minister , so he lose his job . he get his three month ' severance , which be £ 7 , 920 . and 33 day later , when the right hon . member for South West Norfolk be already run out of friend , she reappointe he to her Government . under the system that the shadow Attorney General have outline , the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham would have receive a severance payment of £ 2 , 886 — some £ 5 , 033 less than he receive . some may say that perhaps he deserve it . I be not so sure , because what that mean be that whereas for the first month , when he be out of office , he be be pay through severance , for the next two month he be be pay both his severance and his salary . he be quite literally get double the money for that period of time . the right hon . Gentleman have not respond to I to say that he have pay that all to the local Labour party or some other deserve charitable body in the interim — [ interruption . ] not a charity in law , but a body with many charitable aspect to its operation . perhaps he have do that . I hope that all 97 will take that course of action , and I be sure the Attorney General will be write to they all individually to invite they to make those payment back , because that be no way to deal with public money . I be not go to go on about the right hon . Gentleman , because I think he will be deal with by his electorate in due course and in fairly short order , and the excellent labour candidate for Chelsea and Fulham , Ben Coleman — many of my hon . friend have be down to support he — will be a refreshing change as the new MP . I see the right hon . member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , sit on the Front Bench ; he be a resident of that constituency , and be clearly consider what option he may take when he be call upon to vote . I will conclude on this point , because it be a serious one . we should not play fast and loose with public money in that way . we should not misuse public resource , and when — even if we could say it be through no fault of our own — we be unjustly enrich in that way , we should make reparation . that be all that our motion be call for , and I think it be difficult on that basis for Conservative Members to oppose it . we will see , when we vote in a few moment ' time , whether that be the case . we have hear a lot of red herring about other payment that may be make to Ministers or mps . however , as many hon . member have say , if we think of our own constituent and the hard time they be go through , it do make we look out of touch if we say , " well , it ' s only £ 5 , 000 " — or only £ 25 , 000 , in some case — " and I ' ve do a good job and work hard . " so have my constituent , and they be not reward in that way . if hon . member could focus on that for a few moment when we come to vote on the motion , I do not think they will find it difficult to vote with Labour . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to wind up this debate . my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) and other Opposition Members have lay out very clearly why we need reform and why rule that never envision the churn and chaos that we have see over the past 18 month need to be tighten up . we have hear from numerous Opposition Members and one or two Government Members as well . the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , emphasise just how out of touch this Government be , remind we of the stark choice that many of our constituent have to make between heating and eat . my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) describe the case of the three assistant Whips get two and a half time more in severance pay than they do in salary , take away some £ 4 , 479 each , whereas under our reform they would only be entitle to £ 454 . he also make the point very clearly that under the leadership of a Labour Government we have 2 % growth , whereas , sadly , under this government we have see only 1 % , which have a huge knock - on effect for all our constituent . my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Wood Green ( Catherine West ) also make reference to the hardship face by her constituent , who be be hammer by record peacetime tax burden , and call for some contrition from Tory Ministers . my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) point out the anomaly that , under the current system , for just one day in the post of Secretary of State , an MP can receive some £ 16 , 000 in severance pay . that be why reform be really need . he contrast that with his expert knowledge of what ordinary people can expect in term of statutory redundancy pay , and the horrible shadow of zero - hour contract , where people often worry whether they will have enough hour to make end meet . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) point out that mp such as Joe Ashton be even question back in 1991 whether a full 13 week ' severance should be payable for just two year . he would certainly be astounded about mp take ministerial severance pay after just a few week . my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) point out how nothing get do in the summer of 2022 about matter of immense importance to her constituent , such as cladding . as she remind we , Labour have full plan , if in government , for a proper ethic and integrity commission to clean up politic . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) make a strong case for reform , illustrate it with the case of the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) remind we that there be genuinely a valid case for proper reform of ministerial severance pay , especially with the rapid turnover in ministerial post , as constituent be pay for the way in which the Tories have trash the economy . now , as a former teacher and examiner , I must say to those Conservative Members who speak that not adhere to the title of the question be usually reward with nought out of 10 . I might perhaps give the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) one out of 10 , and the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) and the hon . member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) maybe a two or a three . as for the Minister without Portfolio , the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , I think that my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith have make it clear what we think about that particular speech . I hope that in his closing remark the Parliamentary Secretary at the Cabinet Office , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) — my opposite number — will address the content of our reform and not just deliver a tirade against the Labour party . will the hon . Lady give way ? very briefly . I would be very interested to know what score she would give to each of the four Labour leadership candidate who do not give back a single penny of their severance pay after lose the general election , and after leave this country with no money whatsoever in 2010 ? it might surprise the hon . Lady , but I be go to stick to the topic of this debate , which be severance pay . like my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Macclesfield ( David Rutley ) and for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , and to the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , who I understand give back some ministerial severance pay upon take up new ministerial post , but it be a great pity that no other Members recognise how totally inappropriate it be to take 13 week ' severance pay for a post that they have hold for a much short time than that , or to keep the full 13 week ' pay when they be reappointe in a short time than that . today , they have the opportunity to vote to reform the system that their party have bring into disrepute . those in government have a duty to get value for money and to respect the hard - earn taxpayer ' money with which they be entrust . let we not forget the financial turmoil cause by the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , when she and her team push through the Budget in September 2022 , ignore expert advice and leave people with hundred of extra pound to pay on their mortgage — and not just for a couple of month , but for year to come . from this Conservative Government , we have have not just high mortgage but high rent , rampant inflation , a real cost of living crisis cause people up and down the country to struggle to make end meet , and , of course , hollow - out public service that be scarcely able to meet demand . when the ministerial severance payment scheme be set up back in 1991 , no one would have imagine the absolute pantomime that we have see over the past couple of year , with nearly 100 Ministers leave office and take with they some £ 993 , 000 — nearly £ 1 million — of taxpayer ' hard - earn money in ministerial severance pay . back in 1991 , the expectation would have be that Ministers would be in post for a number of year , and that those leave under the age of 65 would receive a quarter of their final annual salary — 13 week ' pay — as severance pay . however , let we fast - forward to the summer of 2022 , when MPs be hastily appoint to fill gap after the frenzied mass resignation from the Johnson Government , supporter of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk be bring in to serve during her time at no . 10 , and supporter of the current Prime Minister , who resign from the ministerial job to put pressure on his predecessor , return only a few week later when he become Prime Minister . we be not say that the rule be break , except in the case of the handful of over - 65 who be not entitle to severance pay . under the exist rule , the rest of those Tory Ministers be legally entitle to three month of severance pay at their final salary level , no matter how long they have be in post , no matter how they come to lose their post and , in most case , no matter how quickly they return to the Front Bench afterwards . those be the glare loophole that Labour ' s propose reform seek to close . the hon . Lady have refer to value for the taxpayer and the contribution of the hard - work people who send we here . would she support the ongoing freeze on ministerial salary be labour to come into power ? as I have say , I be go to speak to the topic on the Order Paper , and I be not go to be distract by any other topic . if labour ' s propose reform have be in place in 2022 , that would have save the taxpayer some 40 % of those payout , or some £ 377 , 000 . during the Tory turmoil of the past couple of year , some Ministers have receive more in severance pay than in actual pay . for example , Ministers who only serve for a matter of week — perhaps only eight or nine week — have be entitle to walk away with 13 week ' severance pay . that be clearly totally absurd and unacceptable . labour be propose a pro rata system , whereby those Ministers who serve for less than a full year should only receive in severance pay a quarter of what they have actually earn . in other word , if a Minister have be in post for eight month , they would be entitle to two month ' severance pay ; if they have be in post for eight week , they would be entitle to two week ' severance pay . likewise , we propose to strengthen the rule concern Ministers who be reappointe . under the exist rule , ministerial severance pay be only withhold if the depart Minister take up another post within three week of quitting , which cover a normal reshuffle situation . however , with the revolving door we have see , some Ministers have return after more than three week but less than 13 week and yet keep their full severance pay , which be in accordance with the current rule . that be another loophole that our proposal seek to close : individual who return to the Front Bench while still benefit from severance pay would have that pay claw back . for example , if a Minister be entitle to eight week ' severance pay but take up another ministerial post after five week , they should clearly forgo the remain three week ' severance pay , as they would of course be receive their new ministerial salary . thirdly , we propose that individual who leave their job while under investigation for gross misconduct or breach of the ministerial code would not receive any severance pay unless and until they be clear of those allegation by the relevant authority . we would therefore not be in the situation where the disgrace former Member for Tamworth , who should never have be appoint in the first place , have be able to walk away with full ministerial severance pay . likewise , under the current rule , the shameful behaviour of the former Member for Wellingborough be no bar to his take severance pay . however , as he be over 65 , he should never have have that payout in the first place . in fact , nearly £ 50 , 000 have be wrongly pay out to former Ministers who be over 65 at the time they leave their post . one would hope that the handful of individual involve would pay back that severance pay immediately , as I believe the former Member for Mid Bedfordshire , Nadine Dorries , have promise to do . perhaps in his closing remark , the Minister could update we on whether Ms Dorries have indeed repay that money , and also on what progress have be make in claw back the severance payment that be wrongly make to other Ministers over the age of 65 . make no mistake : ordinary citizen owe money to HMRC or the Department for Work and Pensions would certainly be expect to repay it in a timely fashion . furthermore , I ask the Minister to address the content of each of our proposal and say whether or not this Government will support they , and if not , why not . I appeal to Conservative member to do the decent thing and support labour ' s reform , and to support bring forward the necessary legislation in the next fortnight , as set out in our motion on the Order Paper . if they do not support our reform , we will have to conclude that they be more interested in line their own pocket than protect taxpayer ' money . I commend the motion to the House . I would like to begin by wish the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) a very happy birthday . we be delighted to be spend it with she in these condition . we can only imagine the scene — the absolute scene — in Labour HQ that precede this debate : the heir to Bevan , Attlee , Wilson and Mandelson wrestle with the great issue of the day and wonder what they would bring to the mother of all Parliaments for this Opposition day debate . would it be the war in Ukraine , the future of NATO , conflict in the middle east , the situation in the Red sea , child ' s Mental Health Week , the failure of the NHS in labour - run Wales , the collapse of Labour - lead Birmingham , National Apprenticeship Week , the Mayor of London ' s failure to control crime , deepfake and the future of democracy , the strength of UK manufacturing or the halving of inflation ? no , the eureka moment , when it come , be reform of the Ministerial and other Pensions and Salaries Act 1991 . yay ! they have wait 33 year for this moment , and now they be go to strike . we can imagine the panic give way to relief as they set about hand out their line to eager Back Benchers . this motion have give the country something it do not have before : that rarest of beast , that most elusive of fowl , the red squirrel or red - footed booby of politic — a labour policy . to be fair , it be not utter chod . the truth be that the legislation from 1991 have be on the book for a very long time — a third of a century — and it be due for review , and when that time come , it will be right to consider a number of thing . it will be right to consider the length of service and severance pay , it will be right to consider those who swiftly re - enter work after a period out of it , and it will be right to consider the status of those who be under investigation when they lose their job . I say " consider " very specifically , because — as you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and the whole House will know — that be how we legislate in this place : we consult , we debate and we consider . when this subject be next consider , there will be other issue that Labour do not have time to put in its motion as it be scrabble together at the last minute . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) ask whether there should be severance pay at all , and that would need to be debate . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) ask whether the law on over - 65 and severance pay be right , and that need to be consider . a number of hon . member question the status of former Prime Ministers , and that should be consider . there will be other issue — many other issue — and , as I say , when the time come to do this , the Government will consult , consider and allow proper time for debate , not the less than two hour that the labour motion would give for Committee stage of this legislation . it be an absolutely ridiculous way of go about try to pass legislation . Amateur ! it be , as my right hon . Friend say from a sedentary position , amateur . this government be not go to legislate on this issue before the general election , not because the issue be not important , but because there be other thing that be more important . it be because we understand priority and we understand our constituent ' priority , which be a point very well make by the Minister without Portfolio , my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) . we will be legislate to support renter and leaseholder , to back a free press with our medium Bill , and to strengthen law and order with our Sentencing Bill , the Criminal Justice Bill and the Victims and Prisoners Bill . we will be strengthen animal welfare , strengthen our economy with the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill and the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill , and give great power to our national security force with the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill . we be do all these thing and more , because they be our priority and they be our voter ’ priority . we look forward to the next Conservative Government after the next general election have a chance to consider these and many other issue , but it will be do properly , not in a panicked Opposition day debate by a desperate opposition scrabble for something to say . as my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) say , this be a " smokescreen " for a lack of policy . it be a political game , and this Government will not support it . question put . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Clive Lewis David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kim Leadbeater Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin Craig Williams Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Suzanne Webb Gagan Mohindra the House divide : Ayes 192 , Noes 275 . question accordingly negative . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , International Immunities and Privileges that the draft European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere and the European Space Agency ( Immunities and Privileges ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing ( high - risk Countries ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 ( SI 2024 , no . 69 ) , date 22 January 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , I apologise to the House for not mention my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests before my speech last Monday . I should have refer to my entry and I do not . I apologise to the House for not do so . I thank the hon . Lady for give notice of this point of order and for come to the House to make the position clear . Petition - Road safety and Brent Primary School 6 . 26 pm I be pleased to present to the House a petition on behalf of the Brent Primary School , a fantastic school in my constituency . the school take part in Parliament Week last year , and when I attend , they ask I to present this petition . Mrs Rye , Miss McNally and the whole senior leadership team lead an excellent group of teacher , and an equally excellent group of pupil . the petition state : to the House of Commons . the petition of resident of the constituency of Dartford , declare that every pupil at Brent Primary School want to feel safe when travel to and from school and near local road ; far that the pupil would like the road surround the school to be 20 mph instead of 30 mph and free from speed traffic ; far that this be an important issue to pupil as road crash have have devastating effect on family and community , include , sadly , a pupil of the school who lose her life due to a speeding , unsafe driver ; and further note that if road safety be improve , pupil will be more likely to walk and cycle to place and therefore live healthy lifestyle . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to change the speed limit surround Brent Primary school to 20 mph , and introduce other speed reduction measure include speed camera , speed bump , poster and police check so that the speed limit be adhere to . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002901 ] Petition - Road freight rate I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk in relation to road freight rate . virtually everything we eat , wear and consume travel by road haulage . it be a vital industry for all our constituent . however , it face multiple challenge , with road freight rate increase alarmingly because of a whole range of cost factor , such as the reintroduction of the heavy good vehicle levy , clean air charge , rise fuel and a multitude of other cost . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to consult with the road haulage industry to introduce tailored support to ensure that company can continue to operate . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ to the House of Commons . the Petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that the road haulage industry contribute to approximately £ 13 . 5 million annually to the UK economy ; far that everything we eat , drink , wear and consume depend on road haulage service and the company and driver that operate they ; note that 98 % of all food and agricultural product in the UK be transport by road freight ; far that road freight rate have see their big increase in almost a year , with UK rate climb by 3 . 3 % , month on month , in September , which be the sharp rise since December 2022 , accord to the TEG Road Transport Index ; and far that , this in part have be propel by the reintroduction of the HGV levy , clean air change , rise fuel price and high business charge . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consult with the road haulage industry to introduce tailored support to ensure that company can continue to operate . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002907 ] petition - Protection of Breakwater Beach in Brixham I be pleased to present a petition to Parliament call for the protection of Breakwater beach in Brixham . the petition have be organise and assemble by Robin and Rebecca Hooker , who have pull together more than 2 , 000 signature to call for town and village green status to be award to Breakwater beach . such status would protect the beach from development , as well as ensure that an important part of south Devon ' s coastline can be protect for future generation . I be grateful to all Brixham resident for their support in sign this petition . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Torbay Council to ensure that Breakwater Beach Brixham be declare a Town and Village Green . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Brixham in the constituency of Totnes , declare that resident be concerned about the propose development at Breakwater Beach in Brixham ; note that whilst no formal plan have be submit to Torbay Council , the drawing that be recently unveil have not be welcome by resident due to the adverse impact the development would have locally ; far declare that Breakwater Beach should be protect due to the beauty and nature of the surround coastal area . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Torbay Council to ensure that Breakwater Beach Brixham be declare a Town and Village Green . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002910 ] Petition - Ceasefire and the state of Palestine last month I be honour to join worshipper for Friday prayer at Hillview islamic centre in Shettleston , who express their horror at the humanitarian crisis that sadly be unfold in Gaza . I stand in solidarity with their calling on the Government to call a ceasefire now . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to join with other in the international community in urgently press all party to agree to an immediate ceasefire , and to call on the UK Government to recognise the state of Palestine alongside the state of Israel . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ to the House of Commons . the Petition of resident of the constituency of Glasgow East , declare that the attack by Hamas on Israel on 7th October 2023 be act of terror , and unequivocally condemn the taking of hostage and the loss of innocent life in those attack ; far that the petitioner condemn the disproportionate response of the Israel Defence Forces , and affirm that there must be an end to the collective punishment of the palestinian people ; far declare for the urgent release of all hostage and an end to the siege of Gaza to allow vital supply of food , fuel , medicine and water to reach the civilian population ; far declare support for the call by the United Nations and many other international actor for an immediate ceasefire on all side of the conflict and support the global consensus in support of a two - state solution with a sovereign , prosperous palestinian state , live side by side with a safe and secure Israel ; and note the resolution of the House of Commons on 13th October 2014 call on the UK Government to recognise the state of Palestine alongside the state of Israel . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to join with other in the international community in urgently press all party to agree to an immediate ceasefire , and to call on the UK Government to recognise the state of Palestine alongside the state of Israel . ] [ p002911 ] support for civilian flee Gaza Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak briefly on the plight of innocent civilian in Gaza , although it break my heart that the debate be necessary . about 1 . 8 million people be trap in Gaza right now . almost all of they be multiple internal refugee , who have be force to flee their home elsewhere in Gaza and again several time , as place that be promise would be safe soon become anything but . I do not want to go into the argument about the legality or illegality , morality or immorality of what be happen there , and what have happen previously in Israel . those debate have to continue , but I want to use this opportunity to ask what step the UK Government be take to save the life of people who be in mortal danger . to no one ' s surprise , I will suggest that they be not do nearly enough . we have already see more than 27 , 000 death in Gaza , mostly woman and child . the vast majority be completely innocent civilian who have never wish any harm on anyone . there be a real and imminent danger that that horrific death toll will increase exponentially if , as still seem likely , the United Nations Relief and Works Agency be force to stop or significantly scale down its lifesave work in Gaza . People be already die not just because of military action but because essential supply of food , water and medicine be not get through in sufficient quantity . my hon . friend be make a powerful start to his speech . he mention the innocent civilian who be be subject to horrendous condition . my constituent Dr Salim Ghayyda have 40 family member live day by day , try to avoid death , the horrendous circumstance , and everything else that people have to put up with there . be it not about time that the UK Government put in a scheme , even for relative of UK citizen , to get they safe harbour away from the atrocity that they face every day ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . many of our constituent have hardly sleep for month , because they never know when they be go to get the phone call tell they of the death of a relative , or in some case , the death of five , 10 or 15 relative at the same time . it be an unimaginable worry for people to be live with . I commend the hon . member for bring forward this debate , on a subject we all have in our mind . do he agree that the most vulnerable people under attack in Gaza need a clear path to safety ? will he join I in urge the neighbouring nation also to step up their effort to welcome refugee with open arm ? do he far agree that our government should be ensure that we do all we can to make sure that aid get to the people who clearly need it the most ? I do not disagree with anything the hon . Gentleman say , although I would point out that some of the neighbouring country be host between 1 million and 2 million refugee from Syria . that be why this be a global problem ; the whole world have to take action . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . a constituent of mine be a palestinian international student at university in York . his family remain in Gaza , and he be desperate for his child to join he , yet the Government have not open up an opportunity or a scheme to bring his family to he . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the humanitarian thing for this Government to do be to open up visa opportunity for family to be reunite ? absolutely . I think the message emerge be that this situation be affect significant number of people in the United Kingdom . a large number of our constituent have close family member who be in mortal danger . we can not stand by and then wonder afterward why some do not survive . life have be lose because aid have not always get through in time , and certainly not in sufficient quantity . if UNRWA have to scale down significantly , or even stop its activity , the situation will worsen — 250 death a day be bad enough ; it could get unimaginably bad . it be no exaggeration to say that if we do not start to act soon , we could see more civilian death in Gaza than there be in Rwanda in 1994 . Gaza could become the new Rwanda . regardless of what terminology people choose to use to describe the action of the various war faction in and around Palestine , regardless of the terminology use to describe what be be do to innocent civilian , and regardless of who we choose to point the finger of blame at , it be not tenable to suggest that we can stand back and let today ' s figure of ten of thousand of preventable death grow into hundred of thousand , or even more . part of the response have to be to get people out of harm ' s way as quickly and in as large number as possible . what I be ask the Government to do , as a first step , be something that I know for a fact other country have already do , so let we not pretend that it be something the Government can not do . first , where civilian in Gaza have close family member in the United Kingdom , the UK Government should , at the very least , be negotiate safe passage for they to get out of Gaza . secondly , the Government should be guarantee their right to come to the United Kingdom and join their family , not necessarily permanently — that be not what Palestinians want — but as a short - term , emergency measure , to keep they safe until their homeland , the land they want to return to , be once more safe and fit for human habitation . I appreciate that be not palatable to some Government Members , but the alternative be far less palatable . I have refer to my constituent Dr Lubna Hadoura several time in this Chamber . she come here as a student , like the constituent the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) mention , but she like Scotland so much that she stay . she have give over 30 year — her entire adult lifetime — of service to our NHS as a consultant surgeon , most of it in Fife . she have probably save the life of many of my constituent . she have about 20 close relative live under bombardment in Gaza , range from her elderly mum to two baby too wee even to walk . Dr Hadoura love live in Fife . Most of her family have no intention of come to live permanently in Fife , or indeed anywhere else in the United Kingdom . they want to live their life in Palestine ; that be home for they . but most important of all , they want to live , and living be become almost physically impossible in Gaza . I make a particular appeal give Dr Hadoura ' s outstanding contribution to her adopt country . we owe she , and I think that even get her mum out to safety constitute only a fraction of that debt . Most of the member who be present have already make similar appeal on behalf of their constituent ' family , but — this be only my personal view — I do not think that we should be stop at people with family in the UK . I do not think that we should knowingly leave anyone to die , but sadly I hold out little hope of the Government ' s willingness to go as far as that this evening . I want to add my voice to that of my hon . friend , because , as he know , his constituent have a sister who be my constituent , and who have also give many year ' service to the NHS . that family be in a position to financially support any relative who might come from Gaza to the UK temporarily . I agree with my hon . friend that as well as consider family like those of our constituent , we should have a wide humanitarian visa . in the last few month there have be nearly twice as many civilian death in Gaza as in Ukraine . what difference do my hon . friend think there be between the position of the Gazans and that of the Ukrainians that be prevent the british Government from issue a humanitarian visa ? I can only speculate on what the Government ' s thinking might be . I see no difference whatsoever , and I refuse to accept any distinction between any two human being who be in mortal danger . we do not expect firefighter to check bank account or passport before decide who be to be take out of a burn building . we do not expect ambulance crew to check who someone be before decide in which order to treat casualty after a road accident , although some people do . we certainly do not expect to see the hero who man — and woman — lifeboat stop to check people ' s identity before decide whether to pull they out of the sea . in the same way , we should not be make distinction between those who should be allow to live in the United Kingdom and those who should be leave to die in Gaza or anywhere else , but sadly , as I have say , I do not think we will see that amount of movement from the Government today or at any time . so far , they have refuse even to meet I to listen to the moral , humanitarian and imperative case for let Dr Hadoura ' s elderly mum survive , let the rest of her family survive , and let as many of those 1 . 8 million people as possible survive . the most recent reply that I receive from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be very sympathetic , very apologetic and utterly , utterly dismissive . it would be easy to look at that letter and think that it have be write by someone who genuinely could not care less about the plight of Palestinians right now . I do not think that that be a correct description of anyone in the Foreign Office , but that be the impression that the letter give my constituent . I thank the hon . member for initiate this important debate . I too have encounter issue involve several constituent . surprisingly , there do not seem to be that many — I think that three have write to I — so I do not think there be a huge number that the Government should be concern about . however , these be family member who be contribute to the UK economy . my constituent Rami Alfaqani and Alaa Safi have lose 52 member of their family , and another family member need urgent medical intervention . that be why we should do the humanitarian and right thing for those people . the hon . member be right to talk of do the humanitarian and right thing . I would suggest that the situation in Gaza have become so critically desperate that the humanitarian response be the only one that can be morally tenable for any of we . I say that the letter from the Foreign Office be dismissive , and I be sorry to have to say that it be also less than 100 % honest . in a letter that be one and a half page long , the writer talk eight time about what the Foreign Office could and could not do . let I say again to the Minister that I be not ask the UK Government to do anything that they can not do . I be not ask they to do anything except what I know other country , include some of our close international ally , have already do for the family of their citizen to get they out of Gaza . for the Foreign Office , it be not a question of " we can not do anything more " , but a question of " we choose not to do anything more " , and I think that that be an untenable position for anyone to adopt at this time . my hon . friend be make some excellent point , and I share his frustration , have also write to the Foreign Secretary on this issue on behalf of my constituent , Sama , whose family have be evacuate six time . a recent Israel Defence Forces bombardment destroy the family home , which take they 30 year to build . do my hon . friend agree that there need to be some route for family in that situation ? at the moment , Sama have no answer from this Government and there be no way of get her family to safety . I agree with my hon . friend ' s comment . one thing that be cause immeasurable upset to my constituent , Dr Hadoura , and to many other Palestinians in the United Kingdom be that they be in contact with palestinian family in other country and see they get their love one out of Palestine . they know that the UK Government say that they can not do anything about it , but they see other country ' government be able to do something . those government might have reason for not want to publicise it or for it to be too widely know , but they be willing to go beyond the legal minimum to get people out and reunite with their family . the last letter I get from the Foreign Office Minister finish by say : " I recognise this will be disappointing news " — disappointing ? disappointing ? — " but want to relay it as soon as possible , so that your constituent can take informed decision about his family ' s next step . " incidentally , it be clear in my letter that Dr Hadoura be a she , not a he . that make I convince that this be a cut - and - paste job from another letter and that they have not even bother to tailor it to the individual constituent . and relay it to I " as soon as possible " mean send I a letter two month after I have contact the Minister . by contrast , on Friday last week , within the space of about two hour , my office have two email and two phone call from the Foreign Office want to know what today ' s debate be about . what do that tell we about its priority ? that it be more urgent to sort out which Minister would respond to the debate than to agree to meet member of Parliament to try and find a way of stop people die unnecessarily . but it be the bit after that in the letter that I find callous beyond belief : it have be send so that my constituent , Dr Hadoura , could take " informed decision " about her " family ' s next step " . precisely what decision be available to Dr Hadoura , to her family and to the 1 . 8 million other ? what on earth be they suppose to decide about ? there be no option . there be no survival plan for those family in Gaza because it be become impossible for anyone to survive there . an early Government response suggest that they should all apply for visa to travel to the United Kingdom . what a really great idea ! it be impossible for they to apply for a visa in Gaza . where be they go to apply to ? who still have a consulate operate in Gaza ? if they try to travel somewhere else in Gaza to get a visa , there be a very high risk that they will be shoot . if by some miracle they manage to reach the egyptian border — remember , the only border they have be with Israel and Egypt — the border guard will say , " have you get a visa to travel somewhere else ? no ? get back to Gaza , then . " and the whole thing go round in a circle . they can not get a visa without get out of Gaza , and they can not get out of Gaza without a visa . the Government fully understand that , and they be not prepared to issue visa from here , which , as have be mention , they have do for people flee from other part of the world . Dr Hadoura ' s family ' s only chance — and the only chance for any of those 1 . 8 million people — be to be take out of Gaza under the protection of another Government , as some have be . they need a Government who will negotiate safe passage for they out of Gaza . they need a Government who will give they refuge until it be safe for they to go back home , where they want to live out their life . they need a Government who will care , not only with their word but with their action . they need a government who can look at this human catastrophe with the eye and heart of human being . within the next 15 minute or so , we will know whether that description can be apply to this Government . I be grateful to the hon . member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) for secure this debate and for his thoughtful contribution . the Minister of State at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , could not be here as he be attend to other duty , but I be pleased to respond to the debate on his behalf . I will try to cover the point that have be raise . I will ensure that the hon . member for Glenrothes receive timely and accurate reply pursuant to the specific case he raise , and I will work with official to make sure those response be in good order . all Members will agree that the situation in Gaza be desperate . innocent Palestinians be suffer terribly amid the substantial and grow humanitarian crisis . the death toll have now top 27 , 000 , with more than 66 , 000 report injure , mostly woman and child . few than half of Gaza ' s hospital be even partially functional , and they lack the staff , equipment and resource they need . meanwhile , large number of people be live in overcrowded shelter without the most basic amenity and be suffer unthinkable trauma from the near constant bombardment . More than 1 . 7 million people have flee their home , with nearly half of Gaza ' s population pack into the southern region of Rafah . the hon . Gentleman ask what the United Kingdom be do in response to the situation , and he indicate that his view be that we be not do enough . of course , there be several aspect to the response , and I will address they in turn . he ask about those seek to flee Gaza . to answer his question very directly , at this time we be not consider a bespoke route for Palestinians affect by the conflict . moreover , the issue of resettle palestinian refugee be , of course , complicate by the right of return , which we must carefully consider . that issue be at the heart of the middle east peace process . for many of those flee Gaza , permanent resettlement to a third country be not the right solution . indeed , it may be the bad option for those whose dear hope be to live out their day in a recognise state of Palestine . the House will know that we be a generous nation — half a million people flee danger have be offer a place in this country via a safe and legal route since 2015 . but a bespoke route be not the right solution for the current situation . my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) be very clear that he be look for temporary visa because , as the Minister say , Palestinians will of course want to return when and if it be safe to do so . do the Minister not think that the United Kingdom have a particular responsibility , give the history of our involvement in the region and the Balfour declaration ? we all have a responsibility . all develop nation have a responsibility to ensure that the urgent humanitarian disaster in Gaza be make less severe by our intervention . that be what we be do . right now , it be clear that we need measure to increase the provision of humanitarian aid to help those in desperate need . the Government be therefore focused on these effort , alongside our effort to achieve a sustainable ceasefire . that be how we will help those suffering in Gaza . the Minister talk about a sustainable ceasefire , but at what point will this Government actually call for a ceasefire ? I will come to that . we have call for a humanitarian pause and a sustainable ceasefire . I will remark on what that mean presently , but colleague should be aware that we have treble our aid to the Occupied Palestinian Territories since 7 October , commit £ 60 million this financial year . this support crucial partner such as the British Red Cross , the UN and the Egyptian Red Crescent Society to help civilian with food , fuel , water , healthcare and shelter . the Minister say there be aid provision , but it be simply not get through . I attend a briefing by ActionAid , among other , this morning , and I hear that dignity pack for woman be stick in a warehouse and not get over the border . meanwhile , woman be have to menstruate into bit of tent . do he think that be acceptable ? no , we be not satisfied that enough aid be get through and we be work very energetically on our diplomatic effort to increase the flow of aid . we need to see water , fuel and electricity restore . we want to see the Erez crossing open to allow direct aid to north Gaza . we want to see Ashdod port open . we want to see unencumbered access to aid come from Jordan . we want the Kerem Shalom cross open seven day a week , rather than just five . we want to extend the opening hour and capacity of the Nitzana screening facility and the Kerem Shalom checkpoint so that a great volume of aid can pass via truck . we want to ensure that the United Nations have the people , vehicle and equipment necessary . part of get that increase flow of aid be about a humanitarian pause , and we be expend a huge amount of diplomatic effort on push for that . the Minister for the middle east be travel in the region pursuant to that this week and the Foreign Secretary will be do the same in the come week . let I return to the point in question . my constituent be here under the British Council ' s scholarship scheme . he have two tiny child and his wife in Gaza . he could not afford to bring they over here on a visa , as he be a student , study at the British Council ' s request . he want to be reunite with his little child , who have see many of their friend and family kill . why will the Government not reach out to that family and allow they safe passage so that they can be reunite ? safe and legal route do exist and if there be a case — [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady ' s question describe elegantly the limit of the Government ' s executive capacity . of course safe and legal route do exist , but the way we can have a positive impact to set the condition for people such as those she mention be for we to push for a humanitarian pause and a ceasefire . it be irresponsible to talk in hypothetical otherwise . the way the situation will be improve be for we to achieve a humanitarian pause . for we to make rhetorical statement that do not pertain to reality would be simply irresponsible . I should point out to the House — will the Minister give way ? no , as I must make some progress . during his visit to al - Arish in Egypt , the Foreign Secretary meet representative from the Egyptian Red Crescent Society , who be co - ordinate the relief effort at the Rafah crossing . we hear how the UK ' s contribution of shelter , blanket and other vital equipment have be provide much - need relief to the people of Gaza , but of course we also hear about the many constraint on the humanitarian operation that we face . that be why our judgment be that Israel must take step , work with partner , include the UN and Egypt , to significantly increase the flow of aid . that include allow prolonged humanitarian pause ; open more route into Gaza ; and restore water , fuel and electricity . the Foreign Secretary be directly engage with israeli leader on that and have announce work alongside Qatar to get more aid into Gaza , with our joint consignment contain 17 tonne of tent be fly in last Thursday . when he meet Prime Minister Netanyahu at the end of January , he reiterate the need for Israel to open more crossing point , for Nitzana and Kerem Shalom to be open for long , and for Israel to support the UN to distribute aid effectively across the whole of Gaza . we be also continue our work with Egypt on step to increase humanitarian access via the Rafah crossing . may I take the Minister back to his comment about safe and legal route ? nobody can cross from Gaza to Egypt unless they have document that prove they have be give the right to enter a third country , and nobody in Gaza have any way of get such document . could he just describe exactly where the safe and legal route be and how Gazans be suppose to get there ? the only way that anyone will be able to come to safety be if there be a humanitarian pause and a sustainable ceasefire . so minister make statement about how many people we may or may not take would be rhetorically impressive but practically meaningless . we be therefore focused on the purposeful work and serious diplomacy of push for a humanitarian pause and then a sustainable ceasefire . the Government want to see an end to the fighting as soon as possible . the Foreign Secretary have work tirelessly across the middle east to push for a humanitarian pause and a sustainable ceasefire . two week ago , he travel to Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories , Qatar and Turkey , and last week he visit Oman , Saudi Arabia and Lebanon . face - to - face talk with leader such as Benjamin Netanyahu , Mahmoud Abbas and Mohammed bin Salman be invaluable in set out UK view and understand the position of country who can help end this conflict . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) as the Foreign Secretary have set out , we want to see an immediate pause in the fighting to allow vital aid into Gaza and to give space for a deal that would get the hostage out . we be also work to turn what would be a fragile truce into a sustainable , permanent ceasefire without a return to more fighting . that mean give Israel the reassurance that it need to end its campaign . this mean the Hamas leader must leave Gaza and the attack against Israel must end . all israeli hostage must be release and a new palestinian Government form that can deliver for all its citizen , accompany by an international support package . it also mean give the people of Gaza and the west bank the political perspective of a palestinian state and a new future . turn to reconstruction effort , while the long - term future of a palestinian state be important for a last peace , there be the immediate task of rebuild Gaza . we should be in no doubt that reconstruction will be a daunting task . it will take a giant international effort because of the scale of destruction , and it be beyond the mean of any one country , so a wide coalition of western country , arab and muslim state , as well as Israel and the Palestinians , will be need . Gaza will need as many people as possible to join the effort . build this support be another of the Foreign Secretary ' s diplomatic objective . we will continue to push for a humanitarian pause and a sustainable ceasefire . I want to return the Minister to the subject of this evening ' s debate and the desperate situation that my constituent ' s child find themselves in . they can not come to the UK unless the UK Government give they the right to come here . the UK Government be not give they that right , so when will the Minister allow those child , together with their mother , to be reunite with their father , here in the UK ? we be seek to improve the humanitarian situation , include that of the individual the hon . Lady refer to , by ensure that there be a de - escalation , a pause in the fighting and a sustainable ceasefire . that be the way we will attend to the desperate situation that affect more than those two individual she mention . that be our serious purpose . our commitment be beyond doubt , both in resource and diplomatic effort . that be the purposeful and sincere effort of the Foreign Secretary and the entire Department . our immediate focus be on get more aid in and secure an immediate pause in the fighting . that be how those affect will have their life improve . we must do all we can to generate momentum to build a permanent peace and rebuild Gaza . question put and agree to . House adjourn .