Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Accident and Emergency Waiting Times what step he be take to help reduce waiting time at A & E department . what step he be take to help reduce waiting time at A & e department this Government inherit an intolerable situation in A & E , where over a decade of Tory failure leave patient wait in pain . we be do the hard work need to start repair that damage . our new urgent and emergency care plan be back by nearly £ 450 million , which will mean 800 , 000 few a & e patient wait more than four hour this year , new urgent treatment centre , mental health crisis centre and almost 400 replacement ambulance . those be just some of the step that we be take to rebuild our national health service . I welcome the progress this UK Labour Government have make in reduce a & e wait in England . that sadly contrast with a crisis in Scotland , where recent figure reveal 2 , 472 scot wait over eight hour to be see . Jackie Baillie rightly warn that " life be be put at risk " under the SNP , and it have be year since the Scottish Government last meet any of their target . do the Secretary of State agree that only labour in Westminster and in Holyrood have a serious plan to back NHS staff and cut waiting time ? I agree with my hon . friend . there be no sign of the SNP Members this morning . they have obviously clock off for the summer — or maybe they be just spare their blush , because the party have be in power for close to two decade in Scotland and have be steadily drive the NHS into the ground . the chair of BMA Scotland have say , " the NHS be die before our eye " with the SNP . it be on its fifth NHS recovery plan in less than four year . Scotland need a new direction with a Scottish Labour Government . work in partnership , we will fix the NHS across the United Kingdom and make it fit for the future . one of my first visit after be elect last year be to the A & E department at the William Harvey hospital in my constituency , where 19 patient be be treat in the corridor and other face long wait for treatment . I therefore welcome the progress that have be make so far on reduce A & E waiting time . however , too many people end up at A & Es like the one at the William Harvey because they have no other option . what be the Government do to increase care option in local community , include the use of virtual ward to ensure that more people be treat close to home and that patient in a & E be those in an emergency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be unacceptable that corridor care become the norm under the Conservatives . we will not accept it as normal ; it be not acceptable . ahead of this winter , we will require local NHS system to develop and test plan to significantly increase the number of people receive urgent care service outside hospital , include more paramedic - lead care in the community , more patient see by urgent community response team , and well use of virtual ward . together , we will improve our emergency service and make sure that people get the right care in the right place and at the right time . the Government have speak passionately about how minor injury unit , such as the one at Mount Vernon hospital in my constituency , help to take the pressure off A & e by divert less urgent case for treatment elsewhere . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his time for a brief discussion about that last week . will he now respond to the 25 , 000 local people and my constituency neighbour , include the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who be join my campaign to save the minor injury unit ? will he intervene with the Hillingdon hospital NHS foundation trust to prevent the unit ' s closure ? configuration of service be a matter for local commissioner . however , let I take this opportunity to reassure the hon . gentleman that I have take into account representation receive from my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , as well as his letter . I apologise to he for the delay in response , but I assure he that he will get one . in June , just 66 % of patient admit to woke ' s local A & E at St Peter ' s hospital be see within four hour . that be way below both the national target and the national average of 76 % . will the Secretary of State agree to investigate that to find out why my constituent of Woking be face such lengthy and unreasonable waiting time ? as the hon . Gentleman know , urgent and emergency care service have be struggle right across the country , but he be right to identify where there be serious and significant variation in performance . one of the focus of this Government be to try to reduce unwarranted variation from one NHS provider to another , so that we get consistently good standard of care across the country . I commit to write to he to far explain why there be particular challenge in his area and what we can do together to help resolve they . I call the shadow Minister . respiratory syncytial virus — RSV — be a common reason for attendance at A & e and admission to hospital among old people , and I have raise this repeatedly . last week , the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation recommend that the RSV vaccine programme should be extend to the over - 80 and those live in adult residential care home . can the Minister confirm that these vaccine will be available in time for this winter season ? I can certainly reassure the shadow Minister on this . the Minister for Public Health have already accept that recommendation and be work at pace on implementation . may I wish the hon . Lady well in the Opposition reshuffle ? 10 - Year Health plan : Perinatal Mental Health what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the 10 - year health plan for England on perinatal mental health . the 10 - year health plan set out ambitious plan to boost mental health support across the country , include for woman during the perinatal period . during the year to April 2025 , a record 64 , 805 woman access maternal mental health service or specialist community perinatal mental health service , such as those at the Whiteleaf centre in Aylesbury . the Department for Education be also invest £ 500 million to roll out good Start family hub to all local authority in England , which will also support new mum . I be really grateful to the Minister for her answer and for her focus on this . I would like to ask about midwife , who do incredible work support parent and baby , include identify and support woman who be face mental health challenge . we desperately need more of they , yet the Royal College of Midwives have find that eight out of 10 student midwife who be due to qualify this year be not confident that they will find job . what step be the Minister take to ensure that newly qualified midwife be able to find work ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s great work in this place to support woman on this issue . we recognise that newly qualified midwife be experience challenge in gain that first role . that be partly due to the record number of midwife in post and to well retention rate . NHS England be work with employer , university and regional midwifery lead to help midwife find those role after qualification and to transition into workforce , and we will keep a close eye on that with they . in assess the impact of the 10 - year plan on perinatal health for England , can the Minister assure we that the lesson learn will be share across the rest of the United Kingdom , to enhance care quality and reduce regional disparity , especially in Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point about the important need to share the learning across the United Kingdom , and I will make sure that we do indeed make effort to do that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . over the weekend , the Guardian report that the number of woman die in the perinatal period have rise sharply since 2015 . family that have be fail , and health professional feel that whether it be perinatal depression or unsafe birth , lesson be not be learn and the same error be repeat in review after review . alongside the inquiry that the Secretary of State have launch , will the Government immediately implement every action from the ockenden review and put an end to this national scandal in maternity service ? the hon . Lady have raise a really important issue . she highlight the work that the Secretary of State be put in place to address these issue and finally bring all that together to produce a plan that will assure people , and we be work at pace to ensure that those recommendation be implement . Neighbourhood Health Centre : Long Crendon if he will make an assessment of the potential merit of site a neighbourhood health centre in Long Crendon , Buckinghamshire , as part of the 10 - year health plan for England . this Government aim to establish a neighbourhood health centre in every community by 2035 . we be start in area of great need where healthy life expectancy be low , include rural town and community with high deprivation level . planning work have already begin . the hon . Gentleman will know that I update colleague yesterday in a " dear colleague " letter around integrate care board and local authority be invite to apply to participate in the national neighbourhood health implementation programme . I be grateful to the Minister for that answer . he will have hear I put the case for Long Crendon many time over many year , and give the proposal for neighbourhood health centre in the 10 - year plan , Long Crendon offer a very quick win . the community have the land , the planning permission and a gp practice willing to serve there ; it just do not have the fund for the brick and mortar to build it . can I ask the Minister to meet I and the member of Long Crendon parish council who be lead on this , so that the Government can get a quick win on neighbourhood health centre ? the hon . member be clearly a doughty campaigner — I be sure that will mean something good will happen for he in the reshuffle that we be all watch with bated breath . I be happy to have that discussion with he . as I say , the neighbourhood health process will be drive primarily by identify area where healthy life expectancy be low and deprivation be high . clearly , he make a case for his area , and I would be happy to have that discussion with he . the question be on Long Crendon , so we will see how Josh Fenton - Glynn do . before I start , I pay tribute to the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , who face his last set of Health question . he be an incredibly kind man — we speak after the loss of my brother — and a fantastic shadow Secretary of State . I be not sure how they will replace he . one of the key shift we need to see in the 10 - year plan be from hospital to the community . key to keep people out of hospital be tackle the dental desert , with dental problem be the big cause of child age five to nine go to A & E . will the Minister assure I that the new neighbourhood health centre will include dentistry — order . that be not link to the question . that be why I be really bother when I call the hon . Gentleman . Mental Health Research Funding : eat Disorders what recent estimate his Department have make of the proportion of mental health research funding allocate to eat disorder . through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , the Department be commit to find new way of tackle eat disorder through research . we be support research project , include the eat disorder genetic initiative — one of the large study of its kind — and have a £ 4 . 25 million collaboration with other UK research funder to build new partnership in eat disorder research . we be also strengthen support for people with eat disorder by recruit more mental health worker , expand mental health support in school and embed it in young future hub . eat disorder cost the UK an estimate £ 9 billion each year , yet research into these serious condition receive just 1 % of all mental health research funding . that be despite eat disorder affect around 9 % of people with mental health condition , the consequence of which be delay diagnosis and treatment and often lengthy hospital admission . will the Minister agree to meet I and the eat disorder charity Beat to discuss how the Government can break this cycle and ensure that eat disorder research receive the attention and investment that it urgently need ? I know that this subject be close to my hon . friend ' s heart , and I pay tribute to he for his work on it . we recognise the devastating impact that an eat disorder can have , and the early the treatment be provide , the great the chance of recovery . the Department continue to work closely with NHS England , which be now refresh guidance on child and young people ' s eat disorder . I commend the work of Beat , and I would be happy to discuss this far with my hon . friend . the eat disorder issue be escalate , as the Minister rightly point out . will he agree to hold discussion and consultation with the devolved structure in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales , so this issue go to the top of the list of issue that have not really be deal with in the past but need deal with now ? we remain in close contact with all our colleague in all the devolve administration . I will certainly be follow up with official as we develop the research programme that we be work on , and as we integrate eat disorder into the broad work we be do around mental health . get 8 , 500 more mental health worker and create Young Futures hub and mental health crisis centre be just some of the work that this Government be do on this important issue . Urgent Eyecare : East Yorkshire what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of urgent eyecare in east Yorkshire . the right hon . member ' s constituent can access urgent eyecare service from Hull University teaching hospital NHS trust 24 hour a day , seven day a week and from a range of high - street optical practice locally . integrated care board be responsible for commission primary and secondary eyecare service to meet local need . as part of our 10 - year plan , we be keen to explore how we can make good use of our primary eyecare workforce as we consider shift more healthcare into the community . would it be so . my constituent Scott Young , a 34 - year - old father - to - be from Beverley , be leave permanently blind in one eye after NHS failure , include a two - month delay to urgent surgery follow a diabetic haemorrhage , which the trust now blame on admin mistake . when the same issue threaten his remain sight , identical delay occur until I intervene . yet the Hull University teaching hospital NHS trust response contain factual error , include claim that a heart condition delay surgery even though it have not be diagnose when the delay occur . do the Minister agree that such failing demand accountability , and what step can he take to improve the administrative process within our hospital ? I be very sorry to hear of Scott ' s experience . what the right hon . Gentleman have outline be clearly unacceptable . I will absolutely follow up on that issue with official and report back to he . we can not allow that sort of poor performance to exist , and those responsible must be hold to account . Electronic Patient Record Systems what step his Department be take to improve electronic patient record system in the NHS . my hon . friend will know that trust have responsibility for securing — use the approve procurement framework — an appropriate electronic patient record system that deliver all the core capability set out in the digital capability framework . since 2022 , £ 1 . 9 billion have be invest in digital transformation , include in the roll - out of epr to NHS trust that do not have one and in support to optimise exist one . the Minister will be aware that my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) and I have be work on a replacement system for the University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust in north Staffordshire , which would improve public and patient experience , and productivity , at those hospital . will the Minister meet we so that we can consider how furth to unlock that funding to improve productivity and patient experience in good time ? I commend my hon . friend , and our hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for their diligent work with their trust and local system . progress be be make on that EPR , which will have huge benefit . I will ensure that he have a clear outline of progress to the final plan operating of the go - live date for that issue . I be happy to meet he . block bed cost Pembury hospital £ 18 , 000 every night , yet discharge team have to manually phone care home to place people there . my constituent Debbie have create a dashboard — it be basically like Skyscanner — to accelerate discharge by match discharge patient to care bed . it have already receive seed funding of £ 200 , 000 from Kent county council , and could save up to £ 7 million a year in Pembury alone . will the Minister meet I and Debbie to discuss that idea ? the hon . Gentleman highlight the serious problem of staff operate in an analogue age in the NHS , which we keenly highlight in the 10 - year plan . we want to move the system into a more digital age . we would be very happy to hear more about the scheme that he outline and the great work that staff be do to get over some of the problem that they be work with . my constituent Lee Armstrong contact 111 when he be suffer from an addisonian crisis . Lee and his partner provide full detail about his condition to 111 , and when his condition worsen , they call 999 , but what neither Lee nor his partner know be that the electronic record detail give to 111 would not be available to 999 , and neither would his patient record . as a result , the ambulance be not dispatch with the urgency require and Lee die . will the Minister set out how the improvement in the digitisation of electronic record will cover the integration of the 111 and 999 service so that live like Lee ' s can be save ? my hon . friend outline a horrific case in her constituency , where she have be a fantastic campaigner since last year . information share between 111 and 999 already exist in many place . we want standard in place to ensure that that happen safely across the country . that be a key part of what we be try to do in our 10 - year plan by bring together single patient record and record within system . I be very happy to follow up with she in more detail on the case she mention , if that would be helpful . many gps say that their building be not fit for purpose and lack digital infrastructure . without fully integrate electronic patient record and well system , include the electronic prescription service across all hospital and community trust , we risk waste time and money while increase pressure on frontline staff . will the Minister outline the step be take to full integrate the electronic prescription service across all setting in Dorset ? the hon . member highlight the importance of get this right not only from hospital to discharge but , crucially , in primary care , where 90 % of patient contact happen across the system . that be why a central plank of our 10 - year plan have be move the entire system from the analogue to the digital age . we have allocate £ 10 billion , particularly in this spending review , to address this issue and make sure we get this right for the system and for patient . 10 - Year Health Plan : Prevention of Ill Health what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the 10 - year health plan for England on the prevention of ill health . the 10 - year health plan set out how we be transform our approach to prevent ill health through a set of ambitious measure that make the healthy choice the easy choice . among those measure be our mandatory partnership with food business , through which we will make shopping basket across the country healthier , and our landmark Tobacco and Vapes Bill , to help deliver our ambition for a smoke - free UK by gradually end the sale of tobacco product across the country . I thank the Minister for her response . sickle cell disease disproportionately affect people from african and caribbean background , yet systematic inequality persist . a recent NHS Race and Health Observatory report reveal that research funding for cystic fibrosis be 2 . 5 time high , despite similar prevalence . will the Minister commit to address the chronic underfunding and ensure equitable investment in research and workforce specialist training for sickle cell patient across the NHS ? the Government be commit to address health inequality experience by people live with rare condition such as sickle cell disorder . pioneer research be a cross - cut theme of the UK rare disease framework , but we know that there be a small number of rare condition with a large amount of research , while many more have little or no funded research . I want to confirm for my hon . friend that the National Institute for Health and Care Research welcome funding application for research into all and any aspect of health or care , include sickle cell disorder . the Minister talk about her 10 - year health plan , with " fit for the Future " splash across the front cover , but really , it be a plan from " back to the Future " , with no new idea that have not be discuss since Alan Milburn try to do this in the year 2000 . it will only be successful if the Government deliver , but there be no detail in there on how they will deliver . can the Minister help we : how will she deliver on the priority , include preventive ill health ? where can we read the " how " , or be it all still ferment in Ministers ' head ? we be already deliver . as I have say , the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be make its way through Parliament at the moment . we be tackle the obesity crisis through tackle junk food advertising to child . we be work on school food standard , and we be also bring in rule around plan for junk food establishment near school . we be support people to make healthy choice when it come to alcohol , and we be tackle air pollution , which particularly affect working - class community . the list go on and on , and I would be more than happy to give the hon . member another list if he need one . urinary tract infection be estimate to impact on the life of up to 5 million woman and girl . in 2023 - 24 , there be over 679 , 000 hospital admission , and in 2023 , 4 , 323 death . outdated diagnostic technique and inadequate treatment for acute UTIs result in the condition become recurrent and chronic . well education of clinical staff and update guideline , diagnostic and treatment can help prevent the spiral of ill health that destroy so many woman ' s life . will the Secretary of State engage with I and other campaigner to recognise chronic UTIs as a condition and work to prevent this horrendous , pervasive illness ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and commend the work she have do on this issue and her wonderful contribution to the Westminster Hall debate that I respond to recently . it be a really important issue and something we be keen to explore far . the Secretary of State and I would be delighted to meet with she and other campaigner . the NHS 10 - year plan identify antimicrobial resistance as " a critical threat require urgent action . " AMR kill 35 , 000 people in the UK every year and 5 million globally and rise . why on earth be the Government covertly axe the Fleming Fund without tell Parliament ? will the Secretary of State publish an impact assessment of the effect of the Fleming Fund ' s closure on our domestic health security ? there be nothing covert about the decision on the Fleming Fund . it have be perfectly open and clear that the exist funding have be cut . have say that , the work and partnership that have be develop on AMR continue . the UK continue to be a global leader on this issue , and our ambassador , Dame Sally , continue to do sterling work on it . I call the shadow Minister . last month , the Government publish their 10 - year plan . it take a year to write , and it contain promise to make even more plan — a cancer plan , a maternity and neonatal plan , a workforce plan and an HIV plan — which we be still wait for . careful planning be important , but take too long will delay improvement in care , so when do the Government expect to publish those plan and to start deliver ? we be already deliver . the hon . Lady be absolutely right to identify that a number of plan be be bring forward . we take this matter very seriously , and we want to ensure that we get it right . we plan : we plan so that we perform effectively , and we plan for success . the national cancer plan will be come later this year , and I be sure that we will be able to outline a timetable for all other plan . I assure she that planning be not do nothing ; planning be make sure that we get this right and that we deliver . metachromatic Leukodystrophy Screening what step he be take to increase metachromatic leukodystrophy screening provision for infant . I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue and congratulate his constituent David Kiddie on the 190 - mile walk he complete early this year to raise awareness and fund for those with MLD and their family . the Government be commit to listen to those with MLD and their family and act with compassion and care to support they . the UK National Screening Committee , which advise the Government on all screening matter , be consult on the outcome of an evidence review look at whether to screen for MLD . in 2024 , two - year - old Lily Stock be diagnose with metachromatic leukodystrophy , a rare and progressive disease that will , in her family ' s word , " slowly take Lily away " . Libmeldy , a lifesave gene therapy , be available through the NHS , but I understand that it must be administer before symptom develop . sadly , that mean it be too late for Lily to benefit from the treatment . Emily and Sean , Lily ' s parent , be campaign for MLD screen to be add to the heel - prick test on newborn , so that MLD can be identify early and treat effectively and no family will have to go through this devastating experience . will the Minister and her official look into add MLD screen to the heel - prick test , and will she and the Secretary of State join I to meet Lily ' s family and hear their story at first hand ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . lily ' s story really lay bare the heartbreak that rare disease can bring and the vital role that early diagnosis can play . I be happy to meet my hon . friend and Lily ' s family . may I suggest that we meet when the UK National Screening Committee have complete its review , so that the Government have receive advice on this important matter ? we can then discuss that advice together . in my constituency , there be a little boy call Teddy , who be diagnose with MLD — one of the most cruel and degenerative disease , which be now treatable if diagnose at birth . Teddy be diagnose too late because there be no screening . he have lose his ability to walk and talk , and he even fight to smile — a battle that no child should ever have to face . the Minister know that the treatment be now available , yet MLD have not be add to the simple heel - prick screening test . will she also agree to meet Teddy ' s family when she meet the family mention by the hon . member for Hertford and Stortford ( Josh Dean ) to discuss this issue ? it be too late for Teddy , but for so many other child it be not . as the hon . Lady point out , for Teddy and Lily it be sadly too late for that treatment . that be why we be look at screening . I would be delighted to meet with Teddy ' s family once we have the outcome from the screening review . NHS Hospitals : parking what step his Department be take to improve car parking provision at NHS hospital . the Department have publish guidance that trust be expect to follow to manage the provision of car - parking space for patient , hospital user and staff . responsibility for hospital car park lie with each individual trust , and provision must be manage alongside the exist policy , provide free parking for those in the great need . parking at Eastbourne district general hospital , where I be bear , be woefully inadequate . the car park be often full , so patient have to park way away up the Rodmill hill , and car park service be crumble . More than that , lower - band NHS staff now face a near doubling of car parking charge to cover the cost . give that the Government have delay investment in our new hospital and , therefore , in a new car park until the 2040 , what support will they provide in the meantime to upgrade our DGH car parking facility without our NHS hero be expect to foot the bill ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the discussion about any advanced work arise from the new hospital programme be ongoing . I be very happy for the Department to continue to discuss with the trust how future investment can well meet the need of the future . university hospital Coventry and Warwickshire suffer from really poor car parking facility . I have have to take both my parent there over recent year to use its specialist cardiology service . the poor quality of those car parking facility cause additional stress for patient visit those service , which they can ill afford when they have suffer stroke or heart attack . it be become extremely vital that something be do , so will the Minister meet I and other local mp to discuss the crisis in car parking at the hospital ? the provision of car parking remain an issue for trust . I recognise the stress cause by try to get patient to hospital , particularly if they have mobility problem . I commend the many hospital across the country that have really good active travel plan and be work with their local community to resolve some of these issue . we need to hear more from the trust about what provision it be put in place to serve my hon . friend ' s constituent . Health Inequalities what step his Department be take to tackle health inequality across the country . what step his Department be take to tackle health inequality across the country . the drive force behind this Government ' s approach to health be the principle that whoever a person be and whatever their background , they should receive the same world - class service as everyone else , base on need and not the ability to pay . that be why at its core , our 10 - year plan for health look to stamp out health inequality , free up billion to move critical resource such as medicine and equipment to the region and patient that need they most . only a Labour Government will protect the NHS as a service free at the point of use , rebuild it , and make it fit for the future for everyone in our country . I call Perran Moon . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . Carn to Coast run GP surgery across my Camborne , Redruth and Hayle constituency , include the surgery where my father practise for over 30 year . it be struggle under intense pressure , with deep - root health inequality link to the surround area of deprivation . while I welcome the review of the Carr - Hill formula as part of the 10 - year health plan , will the Secretary of State come to Cornwall and visit a Carn to Coast health centre with I , to see the innovative work that be already be undertake and to discuss how the reform will support health outcome in the most deprive area ? I can certainly give my hon . friend that commitment . the damage that be wreak by the previous Government , not just across our health service but across every other part of Government , mean that the gap between the health of the poor part of our country and that of the wealthy have widen enormously . we have see real challenge in general practice , which be why there be 300 more patient per gp in the poor community compare with the rich , and that particularly affect rural and coastal community with high level of deprivation . we be go to carry out a review of the Carr - Hill formula . that formula have to work for general practice , and I would be delighted to come and see the work that the team at Carn to Coast be do . in Kensington and bayswater , there be now a staggering 19 - year gap in life expectancy between man live in Notting Dale and those live in Holland Park — which be just hundred of metre apart — and that gap have grow in recent year . the Minister know that this be a whole - of - society issue to do with housing , employment and education , but can he outline what step the Department be take to help inner - city area with very high level of health inequality , such as that experience by my constituent in Kensington ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for point out those stark difference in healthy life expectancy within a single inner London borough that contain some of the rich people on earth , as well as some of the poor in our country . as for what we be do as a Government , in addition to make sure that funding follow need and that we be tackle deprivation , our approach to neighbourhood health should make sure that we be work proactively in those community that have the high level of need , include pocket of deprivation within area of high affluence . of course , as our plan recognise and as our mission - drive approach address , there be so many social determinant of ill health , include poverty , a lack of good work , damp housing , dirty air , and an inability to access culture and leisure opportunity that be affordable for everyone , not just the privileged few . those be the issue that this Government be address , consistent with the labour value that get we elect . for resident of New Court Place care home in Borehamwood , wheelchair be their lifeline . however , they be be badly let down by AJM Healthcare , their NHS wheelchair provider , with multiple unresolved assessment , bad communication and waiting time for repair and replacement unbelievably extend to four year . resident with physical and intellectual disability feel let down , overlook and traumatise . in tackle health inequality , can I urge the Secretary of State to look urgently at this provider and come to the aid of people who desperately need our help ? I can certainly give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance that my Department will look into the provider that he raise . one reason I be proud that this Government increase the disabled facility grant be that it mean not just more ramp , handrail and accessible kitchen and bathroom , but dignity , independence , freedom and quality of life . that be precisely what the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be be deprive of if they do not have wheelchair that meet their need . I would be delighted to look into this , and I be extremely angry that the failure he raise require I to do so . do the Secretary of State agree that public health be at the heart of address the long list of inequality he have just highlight ? I be deeply concerned that a major reorganisation of local government and the cutting of budget to the integrate care board will undermine the co - ordination that currently exist in Oxfordshire to deliver public health . can the Secretary of State assure I and my constituent that public health will continue to be a priority at the heart of the prevention strategy , and that funding for public health will rise in future year to make that possible ? I can certainly give the hon . Gentleman reassurance that the work we be do to streamline and rationalise the amount of money we be spend on NHS bureaucracy mean that we will free up resource that can be spend on the frontline , improve patient care and public health . thank to the decision take by my Department , the Deputy Prime Minister and , of course , my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer , investment in public health be rise and the spending power of local authority be improve . that be all good news for public health . I call the shadow Minister . tackle health inequality require a strong workforce . I recently meet a constituent who be about to qualify as a nurse , but she have be unable to find work . she be not alone ; this be a widespread problem . the reason she have be give include recruitment freeze to save money and nurse bring in from overseas instead . we need more nurse to tackle health inequality , so will the Secretary of State ensure that trust be fund to support and employ new nurse , and to prioritise british nurse for british job ? I can certainly assure the shadow Minister that the chief nursing officer and I be work proactively to deal with nursing unemployment . we be also work with the leadership of the NHS to make sure that we be reduce our reliance on overseas worker . grateful though I be to all the healthcare worker who come from overseas to work in our health and care service — the service would fall over tomorrow if they all leave , so we should be extremely grateful — there be certainly an overreliance , and that be what we be address . I have to say to the shadow Minister , though , that both those issue be a result of appal workforce planning , for which the previous Government bear a huge amount of responsibility . Neighbourhood Health Services what step his Department be take to support neighbourhood health service . it be only with proper investment and reform that we will bring care close to people ' s home and into the community . our 10 - year health plan will roll out a neighbourhood health service in every community , as one - stop shop for health and care service that meet the need of local population , include rural and coastal community like my hon . friend ' s constituency . the previous Government fail to move care into the community . we have already hit the ground run on deliver the 10 - year health plan , and launch the national neighbourhood health implementation programme on 9 July to start that work at pace . my constituent in Barrow and Furness very much welcome the Government ' s move towards deliver more neighbourhood health service , but my right hon . friend will be aware of the great concern locally about the proposal from Lancashire and South Cumbria integrate care board to permanently end level 3 critical care at Furness general hospital . More than 10 , 000 people have sign my petition just this week to oppose that move . will the Secretary of State please ensure that decision maker meet I and representative locally to explore an alternative path forward that ensure patient safety , protect the integrity of our hospital and reflect the area ' s grow population ? that be just one of many instance in which my hon . friend have make the voice and view of people across Barrow and Furness hear loudly and clearly in this place and across government . in response to her question , I say yes , absolutely : on such an important matter her local commissioner should be meet she , as the local Member of Parliament , and I think I can commit to that on their behalf . while such decision must be make locally and clinically lead , they must also be make in partnership with the local authority and the local community . we must ensure that we be engage democratically elect representative , and I will ensure that my hon . friend secure that meeting . my constituent in Cranleigh have no train service and no direct bus service to the Royal Surrey County hospital in Guildford , which be a big issue for old resident who do not drive . do the Secretary of State agree that some of the empty room in Cranleigh Village hospital could provide a very good opportunity for the expansion of neighbourhood health service , and if he have not be brief on this pressing issue by his official , may I brief he , or one of his Ministers , on it in the autumn ? that sound like another bid for a neighbourhood health centre in the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , but I be sure that local commissioner will be delighted to hear the case he have make , give the experience that he bring to bear . Industrial Action what assessment he have make of the potential impact of industrial action on NHS service . before this government come to office , strike be cripple the NHS . cost run to £ 1 . 7 billion in just one year , and patient see 1 . 5 million appointment reschedule . strike this week be not inevitable , and I sincerely hope that the British Medical Association will postpone this action in order to continue the constructive talk that my team and I have have with its representative in recent day . our priority be to keep patient safe regardless , and we will do everything we can to mitigate the impact on they and the disruption that will follow should these totally unnecessary and avoidable strike go ahead . in a previous role , I find that health worker take industrial action only in extreme circumstance , so I agree with the Secretary of State that if the strike can be prevent , they should be . during previous resident doctor ' strike , elective or scheduled procedure be usually postpone , or plan to be postpone , to free up senior doctor to cover their work , but I note that the chief executive of NHS England have instruct hospital to continue those procedure . have the Secretary of State make any assessment of the impact that would have not just on patient but on the staff who would have to remain ? the approach we be take be different from that take during previous period of strike action . nhs leader have make it clear to I that those early strike cause much wide harm than have previously be realise . there be no reason why plan care — appointment relate to cancer , for example , as well as other condition — should be treat as be less important than , or play second fiddle to , other NHS service . that be why the chief executive of NHS England have write to NHS leader ask they to keep routine operation go to the full extent possible , as well as continue priority treatment . it will be for local leader to determine what be possible give staffing level , which be why it be so important for resident doctor to engage with their employer about their determination — or not — to turn up at work this week , and why I must again spell out the serious consequence for patient should these avoidable and unnecessary strike go ahead . healthcare assistant at Blackpool teaching hospital NHS foundation trust have be underpaid on the wrong band for year , but the trust have consistently fail to put that right , and as a result staff have be leave with no choice but to be ballot for strike action by Unison from today . Healthcare assistant play a vital role in our NHS , but be it any wonder that they often feel undervalued and demoralise when they be not pay the correct rate for the duty that they undertake ? do the Secretary of State agree that Blackpool ' s healthcare assistant be worth just as much as those in the rest of the north - west and that the trust should pay up now ? I should declare that I be a member of Unison . the issue that my hon . friend raise be a serious one . we obviously do not want to see strike action impact on her local constituent , and my Department will do everything we can to help bring an end to the dispute . I will make a more general point : these sort of choice and trade - off about resource be precisely why the BMA resident doctor , have receive a 28 . 9 % pay rise from this Government in the last year , ought to remember the responsibility that I and they have to some of their lower - pay colleague . resource be finite , and it be important that I act in the interest of all NHS staff and have particular concern for those who work extremely hard but be not properly reward . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the resident doctor ' strike be unnecessary , irresponsible and wrong . recently , and again today from the Dispatch Box , the Secretary of State have be resolute in not give in to the BMA resident doctor committee ' s demand . although I do not know the detail of the current status of his discussion with the committee , may I encourage he to remain firm in his stance and , while be fair to doctor , to always ensure that he put the interest of patient and taxpayer first ? once again , the House be speak with one voice , and I hope that the BMA understand the strength of feeling on both side of the House about the unnecessary and irresponsible nature of the propose strike action this week . discussion in recent day have be constructive , and I hope that give ground for the postponement of strike action so that we can work together to avert it — not just this week , but altogether . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . under this government , waiting list have fall by more than a quarter of a million in our first year , but strike action put that hard - win progress at risk . if strike do go ahead , we will do everything we can to minimise the disruption to patient , who will bear the brunt of cancellation . we continue to work with the BMA resident doctor committee in the hope that its member will do the right thing and call off the strike . none the less , if they go ahead , we stand ready , responsive and resolute . there be 5 , 448 drug - relate death in 2023 — the high figure ever — and an 84 % increase from the number that lead the previous Government to publish their drug strategy , which be suppose to save life . do the Secretary of State agree that the exist drug strategy be not fit for purpose , and will he urgently start work on replace it with a public health - lead drug strategy to tackle this public health emergency ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for his question . the number of drug - relate death remain far too high , and we be commit to save life through access to high - quality treatment . for 2025 - 26 , my Department be provide £ 310 million in addition to the public health grant to deliver the recommendation from Dame Carol Black ' s independent review , but there be much more to do . we look forward to work with my hon . friend to achieve success . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Dementia be one of the great health challenge that we as a society face today and in the future , but too many people with dementia end up in hospital , rather than be treat in more appropriate community setting . the 10 - year NHS plan offer a real opportunity to shift care into the community and away from acute setting , include for dementia . will the Secretary of State commit to work with Dementia UK , the Alzheimer ' s Society and other fantastic charity as he develop the implementation of his 10 - year NHS plan to ensure that it truly deliver for people with dementia and those who care for they ? I absolutely agree with what the shadow Secretary of State have say . all three shift — from hospital to community , from analogue to digital , and from sickness to prevention — ought to benefit people with Alzheimer ' s , dementia and other neurological condition , as will the pioneer science that we need in this country , which I know he be so passionate about . maintain the focus on local community , the fantastic St Mary ' s birth centre in Melton Mowbray , in my constituency , have recently be temporarily close by the local NHS trust for six month due to staff shortage . although I appreciate that the Secretary of State do not have power over such temporary closure and that local NHS leader have engage constructively , many local people fear that " temporary " could risk become permanent . if that risk look like become a reality by the end of the summer , will the Secretary of State or one of his Ministers pre - emptively agree to meet I at that point to discuss it ? Mr Speaker , if I may briefly crave your indulgence at what be my last Dispatch Box appearance for the foreseeable future , may I take the opportunity — after seven year , almost continuously , on the Front Bench in government and in opposition — to thank you , to say that it have be a privilege , and to tell the Secretary of State that it have be a pleasure to shadow he ? I think he know it , but I genuinely wish he well . I absolutely give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance that I would be happy to meet he about his constituency issue , or indeed anything else . for all of the exchange that we have across these Dispatch Boxes on issue of disagreement , what be not always readily understand beyond this House be the extent to which those on both side work extremely constructively together , on the enormous number of issue that we have in common , in pursuit of the national interest . the virtue of wisdom , kindness and selfless dedication to public service be not the preserve of one side of the House . the right hon . Gentleman have those quality in abundance , and we wish he very well , personally and professionally . UK doctor and nurse have be volunteer their time in Gaza . there be shocking report this morning that Israel ' s ground offensive in central Gaza have compromise the effort of the World Health Organisation after its facility come under attack . in the light of that extremely concern news , do the Secretary of State agree that those support the health response in Gaza , include UK doctor , nurse and volunteer , must never be target , and that Israel must comply with its obligation under international humanitarian law ? I deplore Israel ' s attack on healthcare worker , as well as those on innocent civilian try to access healthcare or vital aid . these action go well beyond legitimate self - defence and undermine the prospect for peace . I will be in touch with the World Health Organisation to offer my support follow the intolerable incident yesterday . I sincerely hope that the international community can come together , as my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have be drive for , to ensure that we see an end to this war , but also the recognition of the state of Palestine while there be still a state of Palestine leave to recognise . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . carer across the country have launch a protest from home today , with the Carers Trust . their face be project on screen around Parliament Square because they be unable to leave their love one to protest in person . the Government ' s pledge for the carer ' s allowance review to report by early summer look set to be break . can the Secretary of State today commit to end the cliff edge for carer ' s allowance and to introduce a statutory guarantee for respite care so that carer know that he be listen ? I thank the hon . member for her question , and for make everyone aware of the powerful protest take place today , which so visibly remind we that lot of people ' s voice may not be hear if they can not participate in person . it be a reminder of the challenge that people face . I will undertake to raise her concern with my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary , and I give carer across the country the assurance that we be work as fast as we can . have deliver the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , we want to ensure we deliver for this extremely important group of people , whom we be lucky to have in our society . my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent Central have some of the deep ingrain health inequality anywhere in the country . my constituent be just as deserve of first - class healthcare as anyone else , so can the Secretary of State set out how the 10 - year health plan will help reduce those health inequality and ensure that , across Stoke - on - Trent and north Staffordshire , my constituent have the healthy life they should expect ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that reassurance . it be appal that the previous Government not only cancel lot of the deprivation - link funding put in place by the Labour Government but throw all that progress into reverse . that be not the approach that this Government will take . we will have funding base on need , not pork barrel politic . I can assure my hon . friend that his constituent in Stoke - on - Trent will benefit from our sincere commitment to tackle health inequality . to take the Health Secretary back to his promise to provide regional healthcare , the integrated care board be open a consultation on the future of the hospital in Goole , after a decade of almost positively run it down . will he instruct all the health service in the country to make the most of the valuable asset they have , not shut they down or misuse they , and actually deliver a local service for local people ? I can certainly give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance that we be look right across NHS estate to make sure we be make good use of they , particularly in the context of neighbourhood health . I have hear the case he have make about how neighbourhood health service could be provide on that site . I hope commissioner have hear the case , but if not I will make sure that they do and that he get the relevant meeting he need . my adhd — attention deficit hyperactivity disorder — diagnosis in May this year help to answer question about my life and to put support in place to improve it , but we know that over 300 , 000 child be wait for an assessment and that untreated ADHD affect educational attainment , employment prospect and health outcome . will the Secretary of State set out the Department ' s plan to improve access to assessment and treatment for ADHD ? will he work across Government to develop a long - term , join - up approach to ADHD care ? I commend my hon . friend for bring his personal experience to bear on this important matter . NHS England ' s independent ADHD taskforce be look at how to provide support for people with ADHD and how to improve it . we be consider the taskforce ' s interim report and look forward to the final report later this year . the taskforce be join up with expert group establish across Government to provide advice on meet the need of neurodivergent child and young people in education , and on boost neurodiversity inclusion at work . will the Minister confirm what step the Department will take to build neighbourhood health service in partnership with charity , such as Macmillan , that have a prove track record of design and deliver community - base service for people with long - term condition ? how can we ensure that this be a UK - wide service , and not a postcode lottery for cancer service ? the cancer plan will reflect the three shift in the 10 - year plan , include from hospital to community . Macmillan , Cancer Research UK and Cancer52 all sit on the steering board for the cancer plan , and I meet they regularly . last week , we announce the Diagnostic Connect partnership with the third sector , link patient with third sector service on diagnosis . the cancer plan will cover this for the whole of England and build on the commitment in the 10 - year plan . the most recent figure for the three NHS cancer waiting time target for diagnosis , referral and treatment show that those target be miss . long wait time can have a serious adverse effect on cancer patient , so can the Minister confirm whether those target will be give a high priority in the national cancer plan when it be publish ? the national cancer plan for England will have patient at its heart and will cover the entirety of the cancer pathway , from referral and diagnosis to treatment and aftercare , as well as prevention and innovation . it will seek to improve every aspect of cancer care , include establish target for delivery right through the cancer pathway . will the Minister give an update on the progress be make to introduce nationwide screening and improve treatment for prostate cancer ? we be look very carefully at the argument for national screening . the hon . member will be aware that there be concern . we have to look at this very carefully to ensure that screen programme do not cause unnecessary harm , but targeted and widespread screening for prostate cancer be something that the Department be look at and will report on in due course . thank you , Mr Speaker . I be so delighted to have two question on health this week that I be not even go to mention ferry ! as my hon . friend will know , the process for secure an education , health and care plan be complex and can lead to delay in access vital support . that can have a serious impact on the health and wellbeing of young people and child . what step be the Minister take to improve the health element of ehcp for family navigate the process , include those in my constituency ? we have inherit a system that be utterly fail to meet the need of child with special educational need . this government be reform the SEND system , ensure that there be join - up support across education and healthcare . we be also support inclusive environment and early intervention for child through the early language support for every child programme , or ELSEC , and the partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school programme , or pin . eight year ago , Weybridge community hospital burn down . after a long journey , the replacement finally receive planning consent last week ; all it need now be for the Secretary of State to sign the cheque on the dotted line . will he do so as soon as possible ? the business case for the rebuild of the health centre have be submit to NHS England for review , and NHS Property Services will in parallel be ask to approve the capital funding . subject to those approval , a new health centre will be fully complete in 2027 . phlebotomist across the country play a vital role in our NHS . will the Minister consider make the job role band 3 across the nation to ensure that everybody be pay fairly ? phlebotomist be pay on an " Agenda for Change " pay scale , which be underpin by the job evaluation scheme . it be something the Secretary of State and I discuss with the trade union Unison last week ; I should declare that I be a member of Unison . it be work closely with the trust in question , but I be happy to discuss the matter with my hon . friend far . many carer have tell I how much they rely on respite care to protect their own physical and mental health so that they can continue to care for their love one day in , day out . the wonderful Chesil Lodge day centre in Winchester have recently be threaten with closure , and I have be fight alongside constituent to keep it open . how will the Department ensure that respite service such as those at Chesil Lodge be consistently available and be not subject to a postcode lottery ? can I also — order . I call the Minister . our 10 - year plan will boost support for family carer via digital tool such as my Carer and include they in care planning and share decision - make process . we have raise the carer ' s allowance earning limit to £ 196 a week — the big increase since 1976 — and we have launch the independent commission into adult social care , which will look at unpaid carer ' need . the hon . member raise an important point about respite care ; I be chair a cross - ministerial group on our carer strategy , and I would be happy to update he outside the Chamber . last autumn , there be not a single NHS dental practice in Derbyshire Dales accept new adult patient other than those refer for specialist care . the lack of NHS dentistry have lead many of my constituent to experience severe economic hardship , with one tell I he have to spend £ 100 to have a single tooth fix and another spending £ 2 , 000 on denture . will the Government provide increase funding for NHS dentistry to ensure that more people in rural area like Derbyshire Dales can access nhs dentist ? the mess we inherit from the previous Government beggar belief , with 14 million adult with an unmet dental need , while for child between five and nine year old , the most common reason for hospital admission be to have their rotten tooth remove . this Government be determined to get NHS dentistry back on its foot . we be target the area most in need , include rural area , by deliver 700 , 000 additional urgent dental appointment , and reform the dental contract . our consultation be under way , and I encourage my hon . friend to participate . I be really disappointed that there be not one mention of eat disorder in the NHS 10 - year plan , which be particularly troubling give that some of the propose measure to reduce obesity may inadvertently harm those affect by eat disorder . when will the Government finally commit to an eat disorder strategy , as recommend by the eat disorder all - party parliamentary group ? this Government be invest an extra £ 688 million this year to improve access to mental health service . we be transform our mental health service with 24 / 7 neighbourhood health centre ; I be very pleased last week to visit the centre we be launch in Bethnal Green . I would gently say to the hon . Lady that she be part of the political party that prop up the Tories in government — this lot opposite — which lead to some of the desperate situation we see across mental health today . Parkrun be a global public health phenomenon . will the Minister meet I and the new Parkrun chief executive to talk about future collaboration ? Parkrun be a fantastic organisation that be do amazing work . we know that movement save the NHS around £ 10 . 5 billion a year , but 12 million adult be still inactive , and we need a team effort to succeed in get million more move . there be a lot we can learn from Parkrun , and I would happily consider any invitation to meet it . the House have already hear the recent announcement about the closure of the urgent care centre at Mount Vernon hospital . my hon . friend the Members for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) and for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) and I be all concerned about the quality of healthcare for our constituent , especially as the Labour Government have delay the new Watford general hospital until at least 2032 . what step be the Minister take to improve the quality of healthcare in our area , instead of just make it bad ? when this Labour Government come to office , we promise 2 million more appointment , but we have actually deliver 4 . 5 million . we have cut NHS waiting list month after month , and they be now at their low level in two year . of course there be more to do . I regret that we have to delay Watford general hospital ; the previous Government leave a plan that be not credible and have no available funding . we be clean up their mess , and the hon . Member have a cheek to complain about it . the report , " barrier for adult with Cerebral Palsy on achieve full life participation " , publish by the former all - party parliamentary group on cerebral palsy , highlight the cliff - edge in support for those with cerebral palsy when they transition at the age of 18 and the need to end the separation of neuro and musculoskeletal knowledge within the NHS , give that cerebral palsy be a neuromusculoskeletal condition , and that those live with it need easy and ready access to both area . I would therefore be grateful if I could understand — order . let I help the hon . Gentleman . if you have a main question and I call you in topical , you really need to shorten your question in order to let other member in . NHS England have work with key stakeholder to develop a framework to aid integrate care system to commission high - quality service for child and young people with cerebral palsy , include as they transition to adult service . Guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence on cerebral palsy in the under - 25s also set out key consideration in transition planning . datum publish last week show that despite the Government ' s initial action , the proportion of dentist work in the NHS in Norfolk and Waveney continue to drop . I be pleased to hear about the Government ' s work on the dental contract , but the Public Accounts Committee be clear that this will work only if it be back by sustainable funding . I will give the Minister another chance to answer the question : will the Government ensure that the extra funding that have be put into the Department be actually reflect in extra funding for NHS dentistry ? one thing that I make clear to official when I come into this post be that every penny that be allocate to NHS dentistry must be spend on NHS dentistry . we be in a crazy situation where demand for NHS dentistry be go through the roof , yet we have have underspend . that need to stop . we will focus the spending on where it be most need , include area that be under - serve , such as the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . my constituent Marie Brewis and Denise Coates be bravely use their own experience of breast cancer treatment to campaign for a dedicated cancer support centre in Luton . do the Minister agree that Luton could benefit from the wraparound care of a cancer support centre locally , and will she meet I to discuss this ? the national cancer plan , which will be introduce towards the end of this year , will cover cancer facility across England . I would be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the particular in her constituency . Brierley Park medical centre apply for funding from the primary care utilisation and modernisation fund early this year . it have be successful , but it have not yet have the money , and the money must be spend by the end of the year . will the Secretary of State please tell my medical centre when it will receive this vital funding ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the timeliness of decision making and the need to release funding when it be allocate . I shall make sure that my Department look into that , and write to he with an answer . I commend my right hon . friend for his work on reduce waiting list , but at the Homerton in Hackney , because of a system - wide funding failure , deficit reduction money be remove three month into a 12 - month agreement , which reduce the opportunity to drive down waiting list still far . will he or one of his colleague meet I to discuss this issue and see what we can do to drive down those waiting list ? we be take action to deal with the over - run of budget and the reckless spending across the NHS and to bring deficit under control , but I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . spelthorne resident Emma and John lose Holly to cancer in October last year . they set up the charity Holly ' s Heroes in her name . before she die , Holly be give a wheelchair by the NHS , and Emma and John can not now give it back to the NHS for love nor money . I have raise this with the chief executive of the trust , but can the Secretary of State reassure I that this practice be not replicate nationwide ? we absolutely need to look at reduce waste in the NHS , so I would be delighted to pick up that case . can I also say an enormous thank you to Holly ' s family for the work they be do in such unimaginable circumstance ? I really admire people who put themselves forward to serve other in that way after such a painful experience . last Friday I bring together GPs , housing developer , the local authority , the ICB , and anyone else you care to name , to try finally to solve the issue of our have one of the most under - doctored area in the country for primary care . among the many issue raise be a particularly niche one : thank to NHS Property Services demand a late payment from a couple of GP surgery , which be unaware that they be due to pay this rent , those surgery now face the possibility of have to pay a bill that equate to the cost of one gp ' s salary for a year . that can not be right . I would be delighted to look at the issue that my hon . friend raise . I be only sorry that I miss the party last week . Lancashire and South Cumbria integrate care board be have to make saving of £ 142 million this year , and the backdrop to that be a loss of ward at Barrow , Lancaster and Kendal . we hear a lot about additional money for the NHS . why be none of it come to Cumbria ? it be not the case that none of the money be go to Cumbria . we be take action to deal with the persistent overrunning and over - spending of NHS budget , which be an intolerable situation that we have to get a grip on . we be invest £ 26 billion more in the NHS , and that will rise over the course of this Parliament . we will make sure that every part of the country get its fair share , not least through the deprivation - link funding that I mention . I know that it be bumpy for icb as we get they back to balance , but believe I it will be worth it in the end when we have a sustainable nhs that be fit for the future . in 2020 , a consultation be carry out to give prescribing right to operate department practitioner , but despite positive discussion with the Department we be no far forwards and opd and ally health professional be be hold back . do the Secretary of State agree that expand their role within scope of practice will improve efficiency , patient care and professional development ? we be keen to address these sort of issue through our workforce planning and to ensure that staff be work to the top of their licensing capability , always within the training provide . that way we can get the good possible value for taxpayer money and , most importantly of all , the good outcome for patient . do the Secretary of State agree with I about the importance of step - down provision , provide by community hospital such as Petersfield and Alton , both for patient care and for relieve pressure on acute hospital , such as Queen Alexandra and Basingstoke ? yes , and that be why we be reform the well care fund . key to the shift to prevention be make sure that people can stay in their own home or get home from hospital . the Health and Social Care Committee find that such provision cost the NHS £ 1 . 9 billion every year . can the Secretary of State update I on what we be do to get the social care system work ? thank to the decision that the Chancellor have take , spend power in social care be rise — not just through Department funding but in the spending power of local authority . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we have to get the right care in the right place at the right time . that often mean well care for patient and well value for taxpayer . at midnight , the Times publish an article on the ME final delivery plan , carry quote from three ME campaign group . the charity Action for I publish a five - page briefing at the same time , and " BBC Breakfast " also feature the plan , so they have all read the plan . I check with the relevant officer and go to the House of Commons Library about half an hour ago , and no plan have be publish . More than 12 hour after the Department ' s press release , no MP can access the plan . be this how it should be ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue . that be not what I be expect . a written ministerial statement have be table , and I will speak to official and make sure that that plan be available as it should be . Prax Lindsey Oil Refinery ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero if he will make a statement on the closure of the Prax Lindsey oil refinery . in my oral statement on 30 June , I inform Parliament of the deeply disappointing news that the Prax Lindsey oil refinery have enter insolvency and that the court have appoint an official receiver to manage the situation on the site and determine the next step . since then , we have work urgently to ensure the safety of the refinery site and the security of fuel supply , and to protect worker . that also allow time for bidder to express an interest in the site . follow a thorough process , the official receiver have rigorously assess all the bid receive and conclude that sale of the business as a whole be not a credible option . I visit worker at the site on 17 July , and I will be meet they again shortly today . I know that this will be hugely disappointing news to they , their family and the wide community . they be all in my thought at this time . a package have be offer to all directly employ at the refinery which guarantee their job and pay over the come month . alongside the usual support that be offer to workforce in insolvency situation , the Government will also immediately fund a comprehensive training guarantee for those refinery worker to ensure that they have the skill need and the support to find job in , for example , the grow clean energy workforce . furthermore , we understand that the official receiver continue to explore various proposal for asset on the site . I therefore remain hopeful that a solution will be find that create future employment opportunity at the Immingham site . the refinery will continue to process crude for the rest of the month , and the official receiver will continue sell refined product for a number of week , give buyer time to adjust their supply chain . the former owner leave the refinery in an untenable position and give the Government little time to act . that be why the Energy Secretary immediately demand an investigation into their conduct and the circumstance surround the insolvency , and why I have repeatedly call on the owner to do the right thing and provide financial support to the workforce at this difficult time . I call the shadow Minister . when the Prax Lindsey refinery close its door in October , there will be only four oil refinery remain in the United Kingdom , follow the news about Grangemouth a few month ago . this be the second oil refinery to close in the United Kingdom in only six month , prompt serious question about our energy security and resilience . in Immingham , people be wake up today to the reality that redundancy be now inevitable . it be estimate that about 625 job will be lose . for the community in Lincolnshire , that be seismic . as the Minister say , we be aware of the long - stand financial issue with Prax Group , and I reiterate my support for the Government ' s investigation into its director . what progress have be make on that investigation ? when do he expect the report to be make ? we can not escape the fundamental crisis face our manufacturing sector . as Jim Ratcliffe have say , the sector be " face extinction " because of " enormously high energy price and crippling carbon tax bill . " the Minister ' s Department know that to be true and have exempt some industry from pay the net zero levy , recuse specific business from pay the extortionate green subsidy cost . that be a ridiculous situation that see subsidy be pay by the Government to business to exempt they from the charge be impose by that very same government — we be truly through the look glass . the Department be wilfully talk down the oil and gas industry with hostile language and an impossible fiscal regime while oversee the deindustrialisation of the United Kingdom through the perpetuated high cost of industrial energy . this be not simply manage decline ; it be accelerate decline drive by ideology and steer from Whitehall . will the Minister tell we what work be be do to ensure the future of the four remain oil refinery in the United Kingdom ? what , if any , assessment have be make of the UK ' s resilience , give the steep reduction in our refining capacity over the past six month ? what , if any , assessment have be make of the increase reliance on import that will be necessary as a result of the reduction in british refining capacity ? will he please change course and start speak up for our oil industry — upstream and downstream — which see from the current Government a disregard for it , its worker and the community that rely most on it ? I agree with the shadow Minister , who be right to point out the impact that news like this will have on the workforce , who be hear it this week , as well as the wide impact it have on their family and the community . that be why it be so important that we provide that support . on the investigation , there be not much that I can update the House on at the moment . the Insolvency Service be carry out that investigation , and it would be wrong for minister to interfere in that , but we have obviously give the direction that we expect it to be complete as quickly as possible . give the mess we find the company in , I would not be surprised if it take a bit of time for the investigation to get to grip with what be go on there , but that be for the Insolvency Service to resolve . on resilience and fuel supply , we have be really clear throughout that we have do everything we can to try to find a buyer to keep the site operate as a go concern , which be important for the workforce as well as for local resilience , but Prax Lindsey oil refinery comprise about 10 % of our remain refinery capacity ; Phillips 66 — a much large refinery — be immediately next door . in the past few week , we have already see fuel supply adjust and commercial contract renegotiate . although we clearly want the refinery to stay open , our assessment suggest that there be not an immediate risk to fuel supply locally or in the wide area , but we will continue to monitor that . on the shadow Minister ' s wide point , I will first repeat what I have say on a number of occasion : we do support the oil and gas industry . I have spend a lot of time with the industry understand some of its challenge , which be long stand , particularly around job lose over the past decade , and we consult widely on what the future of energy in the north - east should look like to give confidence to the industry . we inherit the fiscal regime from the previous Government . we have consult quickly on what the future of the energy profit levy should look like to ensure certainty about the fiscal landscape . the Treasury will respond to that consultation in due course . we want to give certainty , but we also want to recognise that this be an industry in transition , and bury our head in the sand and pretend that that be not the case do nothing to protect the workforce in the long term . we will therefore continue to invest in the new industry of the future and in that wide strategy . refinery be important to our economy and will continue to be important . that be why I bring all of industry together in a roundtable to discuss the challenge face the refinery sector . I be shock to discover that that be the first time there have be such an invitation from the Government in 13 year . I ask the shadow Minister to reflect on who be in power for 14 year . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . the Minister be absolutely right — so be the shadow Minister — to focus on the job and the community affect by the worrying news come from Lindsey . he be also right to say that the problem be the result of shockingly bad management . my Select Committee will look at the future of refining in this country in a one - off session in the autumn , and we will be able to take further evidence at that point . in response to what the shadow Minister say about energy price , will the Minister confirm that the way to get industrial energy price down — just as with domestic energy price — be to reduce our reliance on the volatility , uncertainty and high price that be determine by Vladimir Putin and the petrostate , and that we have to manage the transition , not shut our eye to it or somehow play into culture war as Reform want we to do ? my hon . friend be right . separate from all the wide issue face the refinery sector and the oil and gas sector generally , it be right we recognise that this week there be worker hear some devastating news . detailed work will be go on into how much of the site we can utilise in the future , and assessment be under way about how credible some of the bid be . we will do more work on that , and I be sure that his inquiry will be useful . on energy cost more generally , one of the conversation I have when I meet the refinery sector be about how we could do more to bring down its cost . we be look at how we could support refinery more through include they in the energy intensive industry compensation scheme , which would obviously cut cost and help UK refinery with their competitiveness . that be not straightforward , but we be determined to look at that . on my hon . friend ' s final point , he be right that the overall context of what we be do as a Government be drive forward the transition to clean power , because it give we back our energy security and take away the volatility in price that have be so devastating to household and business over the past few year . it be also the economic opportunity that help drive forward refinery into what could be profitable business in that transition . they will continue to play a part in that , and we will support they to do so . we have a lot of business today , so if we could help each other , that would be very useful . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the closure of Prax Lindsey oil refinery be deeply troubling , with up to 1 , 000 job at risk across the supply chain . it be a devastating blow to worker , their family and the community that rely on the refinery . we need a clear strategy to support those whose livelihood be in jeopardy . that mean practical help with reskille and retraining . this be also an opportunity for target green investment in industry that can offer decent , secure job for the future . this crisis speak to a wide failure . the UK still lack a proper plan for a just transition that give oil and gas worker real confidence about what come next . we need to wind down fossil fuel in a way that provide genuine opportunity — well - pay green job , clean energy infrastructure , and proper support for the community that have long power this country . as other party embrace climate denialism and internet conspiracy theory , the Liberal Democrats call on the Government to ensure that we do not backtrack on our climate target , undermine green investor confidence , and abandon our leadership on the world stage when it come to climate change . first , what step be the Government take to ensure that contingency plan be in place , so that those whose job be at risk be guarantee support and opportunity to redeploy their skill ? secondly , how be the Government ensure that investment in skill and regeneration be target , so that it have the great impact where it be need most ? finally , what step be the Government take to ensure that the transition to renewable energy make the good use of the skill and experience of oil and gas worker in the place affect , such as the Humber estuary ? I write down the hon . Gentleman ' s point , and then he come on to specific question , but I will respond to the point . he rightly say that this have be devastating news for the worker . he also say something that I want to echo , and which I say to the worker when I meet they last week : this decision , and what have happen to the company , be no reflection at all on the incredible , very skilled work that they be do . I want to reiterate that . so often in these case , the worker bear the brunt of decision take by the company , and that be a great shame . he be right , and we will support the worker . my Department be fund the training guarantee to make sure that all those worker be give an assessment of their training need and future employment desire , so they can be give tailor support . we will make sure that be roll out in the come month . on the hon . Gentleman ' s wide point about the transition , he be right to say that we need a proper plan . that be why we consult on the future of energy in the North sea , both through a series of question , and through a much broad question about what the future of our energy sector look like . it will have oil and gas for many decade to come , but already thousand of job be be create in other offshore industry , and we want to support that . the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight that investor confidence be critical . it be shameful that people would seek to damage investor confidence in this country in the name of net zero rhetoric . the truth be that there have be more than £ 40 billion of investment in clean energy in this country . that mean job and opportunity in all our community across the country , and those who would talk that down should be ashamed . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in respect of the GMB trade union . the Minister say that he be engage with worker . will he set out in more detail what engagement he be undertake with the trade union that be those worker ’ representative ? will he give the House an assurance that the detailed modelling work undertake by the Department include the impact on the wide supply chain ? I also declare that I be a member of the GMB trade union ; that be record in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have engage with both the Unite trade union rep who be on the site , and with day shift worker who be not represent by a trade union , to make sure that I hear from they . I meet they early this month and last week at the refinery , and I will meet they in about an hour ' s time to talk through this more . we want to continue that engagement with they . I call the Father of the House . obviously , my first concern be my constituent who work in the refinery in the neighbouring constituency , that of my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) . I be sure that the Minister will give they reassurance about enhanced redundancy . also , may I ask a question on behalf of my rural constituent in North Lincolnshire — and I declare an interest , as I live there ? this be a deeply rural area , where we rely on heating oil because we be not on main gas . what impact will closure of the refinery have on the price of heating oil ? on redundancy , because of how the company go into insolvency , the worker will be entitle to statutory redundancy . that be not acceptable , give the role that they play in deliver for the company for many year . that be why I have publicly ask the owner of the company to put their hand in their pocket and improve the redundancy package . it be not possible for the Government to improve the package directly , but I be still hopeful that the company owner will do the right thing . we be provide a training guarantee to the worker , from Government fund , to make sure that they have that enhance support . I be happy to take away the point about heating oil . we have be assess the situation over the past few week , include a number of week during which fuel have not leave the refinery at its normal pace , to see what the impact be on supply across the region . that impact have be minimal . that be partly because a significant amount of fuel and product come from the refinery next door . however , we will continue to monitor that , and if there be an impact on price , I be happy to look into that . much like the ceramics sector , the refinery sector be an energy - intensive industry that be at the mercy of industrial energy price , which be beyond its control but have a huge impact on its viability . it be welcome that the Minister think that the energy - intensive certification programme could expand to include the refinery sector , but he will know that the business level test be a huge barrier that need to be overcome ; it mean that many company will not be eligible for the programme . he will also know that the british industry competitiveness scheme be not due to come online for another two year ; indeed , consultation on that scheme have yet to be open . refinery and ceramic company be look down the barrel of ever - increase industrial energy bill . will he give they some indication of what help and support be available now , before the new scheme come online , so that we do not have more statement about closed factory in the next few month ? my hon . friend be right , and it be deeply frustrating that we inherit many of these issue , which be unresolved for such a long time . these be not problem that arrive in the past 12 month . bring in the refinery sector for talk with Government about the challenge would have be a fairly obvious thing to do at least once in the past 13 year . clearly , that do not occur to the previous Government , and we have inherit challenge . my hon . friend be right to say that consultation will take time , unfortunately . it be right that we conduct a proper consultation to make sure that there be not any unintended consequence . the Minister for Industry , who be a Minister in both the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Department for Business and Trade , be look at how we can do that as quickly as possible . I be happy to follow that up with she . my hon . friend be also right that nobody want to be talk about redundancy in any part of our economy , and we be do everything we can to bring down price to prevent redundancy . this be a massive blow to my Brigg and Immingham constituency — most particularly to those directly employ by the refinery , but also to the wide economy of the sub - region . will the Minister reconsider what he just say about statutory redundancy ? I want the maximum support give to those worker . I will raise two other point . first , North Lincolnshire council publish a green growth zone document last year about the future of the regional economy . as we discuss yesterday , I urge the Minister to consider an urgent meeting , at which all involve be bring in for a roundtable discussion . secondly , if he be not do so already , may I urge he to speak to his colleague who be local government minister ? North Lincolnshire council will lose £ 2 . 6 million in business rate . needless to say , that be a massive blow that would affect the delivery of service . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and for meet I to discuss the matter yesterday . I appreciate the impact that the closure will have , not just on those refinery worker who be directly impact , but on the wide economy . we absolutely appreciate that there be ripple effect from a closure like this . on the statutory redundancy point , we have look at this , and have push to see if there be more action that the Government can take to change or give additional payment . it be not possible for Government to do that , not least because the Insolvency Service have to follow specific rule on creditor and how they operate in the event of an insolvency . however , the owner of the company have profit from this business , and they should do the right thing by the workforce that deliver that for they . I have agree to hold a roundtable discussion , and I previously meet the two council leader to talk about this . I be happy to arrange that discussion , and to have it with whoever be useful and want to participate , because the hon . Gentleman be right about the opportunity . I be happy to engage on the point about North Lincolnshire and business rate . although the refinery will not continue to be a go concern , we be assess bid from those who be interested in the site ; we hope those bid will deliver job and economic benefit , and that business rate income will come from new industry on the site . that be not as good as retain the refinery in its current form , but we hope we can make some progress . I thank the Minister for his statement , and particularly for the news that there will be a thorough investigation . I have two quick question . first , be the report correct that the previous Government do not meet representative of the sector for 13 year ? I know the Minister say that he have meet they recently . secondly , family will be in crisis when they hear this news , and they will struggle to deal with it . do he agree that the owner , who I understand be not short of money , have an absolute moral obligation to ensure that those family be support ? statutory payment be welcome , but the moral obligation have to be make clear . I thank my hon . friend for both those point . my understanding from the sector and from the Department be that a meeting have not happen in the past 13 year . [ interruption . ] if the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , on the Opposition Front Bench , want to find I date when her government meet the sector , I would be really happy to look at they , and at any minute from those meeting . that would be helpful . there be particular issue for the sector , but also for individual refinery ; some be more profitable than other , and some have transition to do other piece of work . it be important that they learn from one other , and that the Government do what they can . on my hon . friend ' s final point , I agree that there be a moral obligation here . have meet the worker on the site , I know that they have do nothing wrong . they have work hard over many year to keep the refinery go , and to deliver a profit . those who have take money out of that business should now do the right thing and fund those worker , and I hope that they will respond to my letter in due course . with the Grangemouth refinery in Scotland have close , and Prax Lindsey face the same fate , there be clearly a missing element in the UK Government ' s just transition policy . there can be no just transition if skilled job be lose when that transition be make . what assurance can the Minister give that the Government have take a wide view , in order to stem these closure and address what be clearly a deep issue with policy ? I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the importance of recognise that the most important thing to get right be the transition of worker . I have say that in other answer . that require we to recognise that a transition be under way , and to put in place a plan , which have not happen in the past decade , during which we lose more than 70 , 000 worker in this industry . it be really important that we grapple with those issue , and it will not be easy . the starting point be to bring together everyone with an interest in this , as I have do — everyone from the trade union and industry to those make the green investment that be drive this forward — to make sure that we deliver on job , and to make sure that training and support be in place , so that worker can transition . he raise an important point . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about Grangemouth , it be not break news that Grangemouth be in a precarious position , and the previous Government could have do more to ensure a just transition there . I meet the investment taskforce yesterday , along with my colleague Gillian Martin , the Energy Minister in the Scottish Government , to look at the prospect for the site . there be some interesting proposition come forward ; there be 84 bid in total for £ 200 million from the National Wealth Fund , and I hope that we will have good news on job and investment in Grangemouth soon . I thank the Minister for his briefing yesterday , but there be a pattern develop , be there not ? some 800 job be create every single day in the 14 year of the Conservative Government , but unemployment have go up every single day under this Labour Government . some 400 - plus job have be lose at Vivergo , on the north side of the Humber , and perhaps 600 job will be lose directly , and other lose indirectly , on the south side of the Humber . can the Minister reassure those affect that this Government will not destroy our industrial base , and that there be a future for we , because it look like we be head in the wrong direction ? I will avoid the wide political point in a week when worker be find out about job loss , because that be obviously devastating for they . I will just say that the Government have publish their industrial strategy , and this be the first time the country have have an industrial strategy in a very long time . [ interruption . ] well , let we say a credible industrial strategy , if the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) think he have one before . again , I ask he to present it to I . we be invest in the industry of the future , and deliver thousand of job on the Humber and right across the country . we be make sure that investment come forward in job for the future . [ interruption . ] the problem with the right hon . Gentleman ' s point be that his party oppose that investment . it oppose the very thing that will deliver the job of the future , and I be afraid that be simply an untenable position . either he be for or against investment in job ; he have to say which it be . the industrial strategy be the way to deliver that . the last time we discuss Prax Lindsey , I ask the Minister to support my energy job Bill — a plan for the redeployment and retraining of oil and gas worker that be proactive and industry - wide rather than reactive and crisis by crisis , and that would be pay for by the company . that be what the worker and the union want , but the Minister say he do not agree with it . he have now say that the Government will fund a training guarantee for these refinery worker and be ask this company ' s owner to make voluntary contribution to support worker . that be progress , but will he now turn this into a proactive and industry - wide plan , and please go beyond ask the company nicely to do the right thing and require it ? I think the hon . Lady slightly miss the point . the company go into insolvency . the worker be therefore entitle only to statutory redundancy . I do not think that that be acceptable , so I have call — not nicely , but directly — for the owner of that company to do the right thing , put their hand in their pocket and fund proper redundancy for those worker . that be separate from a wide piece of work we be do around the transition . I think she also miss the point about the importance of deliver investment in oil and gas that be also investment in renewable and in carbon capture , utilisation and storage to deliver the job that come next , so that there be a transition for those worker . I have say that I do not support her proposal , and I be happy to say that again because it would do neither of those thing . it be essential that we support the oil and gas industry in its current form , but recognise that it be in transition . we still have decade of oil and gas to come in this country , but we be already build up the industry that come next . that need investment , and it also need we to build infrastructure , which many people in her party seem to oppose . while the Minister be right to point out that this refinery produce a small amount of the UK ' s refined fuel overall , the site do provide around 50 % of the fuel into Warwickshire Oil Storage , a key site at Kingsbury in the west midland that supply fuel into the west midland , which be obviously a very large demand centre . what be the Minister ' s assessment of the impact on the supply and demand balance of road fuel in the west midland as a result of this closure ? I be happy to follow up on anything specific with the hon . Gentleman , but I can tell he that I get daily update on assessment on exactly that point . clearly , the first week of the insolvency see some disruption to supply leave , but our evidence point to the fact that those commercial contract be able to be renegotiate and to adjust to that . we be continue to monitor to ensure there be no disruption , and there be no assessment at the moment that would suggest any impact at all on fuel security . clearly , we will continue to do that , and if I can follow up on specific , I will do so . what a pathetic turnout today from the party of the worker : just four Labour mp have turn up to speak out on behalf of the Prax Lindsey worker . what I want to know from the Minister be if it be true that a foreign company have already be line up to asset - strip and decommission this site — yes or no ? first , I think the hon . Gentleman be misjudge the mood of this question , which be about worker affect by redundancy . I hear nothing from he on those worker who be hear the news this week . on his point , we assess a number of bid for the business as a go concern . none of those bid be credible , which be why the official receiver make the decision to cease refining . some bid be interested in part of the site for a range of different thing , but I be not party to those bid . they be commercially sensitive bid that will be assess on the basis of how many job can be retain and the industrial opportunity on that site , which be what we be drive forward . I would just say to he that spread nonsense and rumour , either in this House or on social medium , do absolutely nothing to support the worker on that site . I have listen closely to the Minister ' s answer , and he be rightly highlight the importance of the job and the redundancy , but I think we need to be a bit clear and more open with people about what the new job in the renewable sector that the Minister refer to be about . these job be not comparable to a lot of the one that will be lose in the oil and gas sector . a lot of they be not full - time job ; a lot of they be part time or temporary job during construction phase . we be lose a huge number of worker across the country , and we will continue to do so because of the Government ' s policy on oil and gas and the speed at which the sector be be demolish . can the Minister please outline directly to these worker across the country , whether at Prax or in the north - east , how their job will be support into the future ? I be talk about comparable full - time job , not just the temporary one . a key objective of this Government be to deliver good , well - pay trade - unionise job , and we have be drive that forward . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have be push on trade union recognition , partly to ensure that term and condition in the clean energy industry be as good as those in , for example , the oil and gas industry . we will continue to push on that , and we have already have some success . I gently say that the investment go into clean energy that be deliver thousand of job and will deliver ten of thousand of new job across the country come against a backdrop of opposition from the Conservatives on great British Energy in the north - east of Scotland deliver those job . we be also announce today the final investment decision on Sizewell C — 10 , 000 job be be create in nuclear after year of dither and delay by the hon . member ' s party . we be get on with do this , and we will do everything we can to ensure those job be comparable on term and condition and pay . I say to she that if she want these job to be create , she should support some of the policy that will deliver they in the first place . I thank the Minister for his answer . bear in mind that the refinery be responsible for supply some 10 % of british fuel — fuel for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — it be absolutely essential that a way forward be find , and find quickly . part of that solution must be a common - sense approach to use fossil fuel . what discussion have the Minister have with his Cabinet colleague to provide a long - term assurance that there be a future for this refinery , even at this eleventh hour , so it can be sell as a go concern , as it should ? the Government have push , over the past four week we have be aware of this issue , to try to find a route whereby the refinery can continue as a go concern . that be obviously our no . 1 objective . the official receiver assess the bid that be make and find that none be viable to deliver that . the Government be not go to nationalise this refinery — we be not in the business of nationalise loss - make business — so , unfortunately , that be not a route we will take . but we have do everything we can , and what we now want to do be assess the bid for the future of the site to see what the maximalist approach be that , crucially , will keep as many job on the site as possible , but also will deliver on the industrial opportunity of that site for the wide community . we will continue to have those conversation . Birmingham Bin Strikes ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government if she will make a statement on the Government ' s response to the Birmingham bin strike . member will be aware of the continue disruption cause by industrial action in Birmingham . I want to be clear that Birmingham city council be an independent employer and that this dispute be between the council and Unite the trade union . the Government be rightly not a party to it , but of course we have an interest in it , recognise the impact on local resident . this government ' s priority remain Birmingham resident , and we will continue to support the council to keep Birmingham ' s street clear while the dispute remain ongoing . thousand of ton of waste have be remove , and routine collection have be restore . the council continue to monitor the situation closely to ensure that waste do not build up again . the background to the dispute be the historical equal pay issue the council have face , which have be the source of one of the large equal pay crisis in modern UK history , and that have to be front of mind . the council have be in negotiation for many month , make a fair and reasonable offer to Unite and be clear about the need to protect its equal pay position . the union reject the council ' s offer . the council have work hard to offer option to affected worker , include a transfer into other role in the council on the same grade and , in some case , to upskill those worker in scope . an enhance voluntary redundancy package be also available for those who wish to leave the service , and there have already be significant uptake . give the union ' s rejection of the offer , as of last week , the council be now enter a period of consultation to resolve the dispute while protect its equal pay position . I urge the union to work with the council on a sustainable way forward that be fair to worker in the council and to the resident of Birmingham . finally , hon . member may be aware that early today Max Caller announce that he be retire as lead commissioner in Birmingham , and I wish he well for the future . Tony McArdle OBE have today be appoint by the Secretary of State as the new lead commissioner , and he will take up his position tomorrow . Tony bring a huge wealth of expertise , and I be confident that he will continue to deliver on the recovery plan to secure improvement for Birmingham ' s resident . the bin strike in Birmingham have now drag on for over four month , and Birmingham ' s 1 . 1 million resident be pay the price . the Government have repeatedly scapegoate bin worker , yet they refuse to address the root cause and real reason why resident have see their public service crumble and their council tax bill rise by 21 % . at the heart of this crisis lie 13 year of mismanagement and incompetence under a labour - run council . the Minister want to blame the equal pay settlement for cut , but conveniently forget that the council have have this settlement loom for over a decade . over 13 year , there have be endless council waste : an athlete ' s village that house not a single athlete sell off at a loss of £ 320 million , £ 216 million spend on an it system that fail , and £ 53 million spend on consultant . now the Government stand idly by while their own council cut up to £ 8 , 000 from bin worker . this government should be defend frontline worker , not their own incompetent council . the big betrayal be the Government ' s deliberate downplaying of their involvement . for month , Ministers claim that this be a local issue , yet it be now clear that government - appoint commissioner must approve any deal . just last week , the commissioner reject a deal that could have end the strike , despite the council ' s manage director be inclined to accept it . the misery in Birmingham have be prolong not by the worker , but by the commissioner and therefore the Government . this Government have the power to end the strike , and yet they have actively drag their heel in reach a deal . that raise serious question about the Government ' s commitment to worker ' right . the council ' s action amount to fire and rehire . with the Government ' s role in these negotiation , we must ask : be they complicit in aid and abet the very practice they be legislate to ban ? finally , will the Minister confirm that the Government have the power to remove the commissioner who be block a deal ? will he personally commit to oppose the fire and rehire practice that the council be use ? I hear the hon . member ' s charac - terisation of the issue , but it bear no relationship at all to the reality of the situation . the council be an independent employer . it be not for the Government to go council by council negotiating trade union dispute or term and condition change . it be for the council themselves as the employer to negotiate with their workforce , and that be exactly the same in Birmingham as for other council , as he know . the commissioner be of course appoint by Government and have to act with professional expertise in give advice to the local authority on whether its plan be affordable and lawful , but the negotiation be take place between the council itself , and unite the trade union and the council ' s workforce . on this idea that we be scapegoate the worker in this dispute , no party have do more for worker ’ right than Labour . no Government have do more on worker ’ right in a generation than this Government , head by the Deputy Prime Minister . when I hear member of this House talk in a way that degrade that , that be a complete and absolute failure to accept not just the legacy we inherit as a Government — that include , by the way , Birmingham city council and its local taxpayer — but our determination to put that right . finally , of course Birmingham could and should have make some big financial decision much early . that be a matter of fact , and that be why commissioner be in there today . but the local government finance settlement have an increase in core spending power of 9 . 8 % — that is , £ 131 million of additional money into Birmingham . that include the large settlement through the recovery grant of any council in the country . I call the shadow Minister . as the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) allude to , the House know that the origin of the dispute in Birmingham be in the 2017 settlement of the equal pay arrangement , which create a £ 760 million liability for that local authority under the Labour party , and which have be undermine at every turn by the relationship between Labour ' s administration in Birmingham and the union . it be clear that that local authority and its leadership have be dodge scrutiny and accountability at every turn . they refuse even to debate the local authority Conservative group ' s proposal for a plan to end the strike and clean up the city . I have a series of question for the Minister . what guidance will he give his seven - strong commissioner team to bring about an end to the strike ? what public health assessment be the Government carry out of the impact of more than 21 , 000 tonne of uncollected rubbish and a huge increase in the rat population in Birmingham ? will he consider withdraw the facility time for Unite the union , which be currently refuse to go about the process of bring an end to the strike ? will he tell his commissioner — include Tony McArdle , whose appointment have be announce today — that Birmingham ' s besiege household must not be hold to ransom by the union for a day long ? will he tell the House who he think have fail the household of Birmingham more ? be it the Labour council , in leave rat on the street and 21 , 000 tonne of uncollected rubbish in a heatwave , or this Government , who have fail to intervene to bring an end to this blight on resident ' life ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , which I will try to answer in turn . let I say , though , that we will take no lecture at all from the party that be in government for 14 year and see the downgrading of local authority across the country , include in Birmingham . although these be our commissioner , as the hon . Gentleman say — that be correct : they be Government appoint — let we not forget which Government appoint they . they be appoint on the watch of the previous Government . today we be just announce a change in the lead commissioner . we need to be careful not to politicise those people , who believe in public service and be help out the local authority and support the Government in try to turn that council around . let we leave the politicisation of the commissioner to one side and deal with the fact . last time I be in the Chamber , the Conservatives be talk down the role of bin worker , as if somehow that work be degrade . at that time , I think they be suggest that the armed force might be bring in to collect waste and that that would somehow degrade their role . that be never go to be the case , but it be a glimpse into how the Conservatives view the worker who be affect . one thing that be absolutely certain be that the Labour party believe in the power of frontline worker and in the importance of these frontline role . we absolutely value the role of refuse collector , and we see the implication of waste not be collect . but we have get to be clear , too , that whatever settlement be on the table have to be lawful and affordable , and it can not cross the red line of undermine the equal pay negotiation that be take place . I hope that we can agree at least on that basis . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the Minister for outline the Government ' s work to maintain vital collection service for resident , who want to see their city clean up rather than another summer of this , give the recent heatwave . strike action have now pass the six - month mark . as the Minister just outline , it be important that we consider the hardship feel by many of the strike worker . many of they do not want to politicise this ; they just want to do the right thing by their family . one recently tell the BBC : " Morale ' s quite low … everyone ' s try to stay strong and together , but it be very difficult . the union have try to help we out with strike pay , but for a lot of people it doesn ' t cover their … bill . it put a massive strain on our family . kid , money — money ' s tight , credit card be maxe out " . nobody should be put in that position . I hear the Minister ' s call for the commissioner , Birmingham and the union to resolve this issue , but what more can he and the Government do to bring everyone around the table so that we can finally bring an end to the dispute ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her comment — we agree on much . she speak to why a resolution on this issue be so important . at the heart of this , there be work people with rent and mortgage to pay , who want a resolution . to be clear , the council have be in negotiation over many month and have make a fair and reasonable offer to Unite , which , unfortunately , the union reject . the council have also work hard to offer option to affected worker , include their transfer to other role in the council at the same grade , and , in some case , have agree to upskill in - scope worker . a generous redundancy package be available for those who wish to leave the service ; we have see an uptake in that . in the end , none of we want this to roll on indefinitely ; we want to see a resolution for the affected worker and for the taxpayer of Birmingham , who quite rightly expect their local public service to be deliver to a good standard . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Birmingham want its refuse and recycle service back as quickly as possible to end the risk to public health and the environment , especially in the most densely populate part of the city . the Liberal Democrats pay tribute to the volunteer and emergency service , who be out there clean up the city by deal with refuse , waste pile - up and fly - tipping while the council and union could not agree and continue clash hammer and tong . for year under the previous Conservative Government , council be expect to do more and more with less and less , and that have bear fruit in Birmingham and many other place . the Government must now grasp the nettle and tackle that funding crisis , particularly in social care and local government generally , so that what be happen in Birmingham do not spread across the country . give that one - off clean - up have cost the council £ 3 . 9 million already , be it not time for the Government to fund a complete clean - up of the remain refuse so that resident do not have to foot the bill and spend the rest of the summer live alongside disgusting rubbish . will any clean - up ensure that waste be properly deal with and recycle where possible , give that the city be already rank third from bottom in waste recycling ? the hon . Gentleman make fair observation about the funding crisis in local government , but it would be remiss of I not to take he back to the coalition year , which start austerity in local government . the Liberal Democrats be not just casual observer of the demise of local government but active participant in it . in those very first year , when the cut really bit for local authority , they aid and abet . our job , after 14 year of the impact of those decision , be to find a way through , and we be get on with that . we be rebuild the foundation of local government . we have announce a consultation on the fair funding review , which will see a redistribution of funding across the country towards the area of high deprivation that need it most . we be take into account all the different service pressure . we be grasp the nettle on the structural change need in devolution and reorganisation to ensure that the sector be fit , legal and decent at the end of the process , and we be repair the broken audit market alongside that . we be get on with repair the foundation of local government , but we need to be clear that this be a localise dispute , and of course we do not want to see it impact on local people . I say to the House — because I have hear this a number of time and should have call out the first example — that there be not ten of thousand of tonne of waste accumulate on the street of Birmingham . that be the case , and it be deal with efficiently . in most case , collection be take place for most household at most time , and there be not the accumulation of the type we see early . clearly , the situation be fragile and we do not want it to return to how it be , which be why we remain in regular contact with the council . I welcome the appointment of the new lead commissioner . as the Minister know , we have have many discussion about the intervention , include at time from a place of concern . I look forward to work constructively with Tony McArdle on behalf of the citizen of Birmingham . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in respect of the GMB and Unison union , which be the claimant union in the equal pay case in Birmingham . I feel compel to round out the partial account that we have hear today in the Chamber . will the Minister confirm that by far the large share of Birmingham ' s equal pay liability of more than £ 1 billion be incur when the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats run the city , and that over the past decade to 2024 , Birmingham suffer the sharp reduction in spend power of any unitary authority in the country , with devastating consequence for every constituency in Birmingham ? that be a fair point . I forget that the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) have a brief stint as a Liberal Democrat councillor . actually , the people of Birmingham want we to put the party politic to one side . I think what matter to local people be , first , that they be treat fairly when it come to local council tax level and , secondly , that they get a good level of public service for the tax that they pay . as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) rightly say , there have to be accountability . it be a matter of fact that some of these big decision should have be take much early , and that go back to the Conservative and Liberal Democrat - run council . his fundamental point about the importance of equal pay and the liability , which be big number because of the size of the council and the historic issue there , can not be undermine . the bad outcome of this dispute would be that a decision be make for the short term that do not address the medium and long term , completely unravel the equal pay negotiation and , by do that , undermine the woman worker in scope . I commend my parliamentary neighbour , the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) , for bring this urgent question to the House before it rise . I also pay tribute to Max Caller , whose retirement have be announce in the last few hour ; he have dispatch his Herculean task with considerable distinction . the Minister will be aware that Labour be now impose the contract , which the Conservative Opposition leader , Councillor Bobby Alden , urge the Labour leadership to do a year ago . do he understand that my constituent in the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , who come under Birmingham for local government purpose , have have their patience try beyond endurance by this bankrupt Labour council ? be he aware that recent polling suggest that only 5 % of Birmingham resident be likely to vote Labour next May ? my constituent — and , I have no doubt , those of the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr — be count the day until next May come and we can get rid of this dreadful council . I thank the right hon . member for take my advice and not make this party political — a bit more refining and we will get there in the end . surely the right hon . Member would expect that the local authority would enter a trade union negotiation in good faith and would go as far as it can lawfully go in make a settlement offer that respect the worker who be lose pay as a result of equal pay , because that be surely the right thing to do . I hope he would not expect the council to disregard that entirely . the council rightly care about its workforce , not least because many of they will be Birmingham city resident themselves , and it want to make sure that it support that process . the council , like we , be not happy that the offer be reject by the union , but that be not to say that we can not use this time for the conversation to continue , so that we can reach a resolution that put the people of Birmingham first . could the Minister explain this ? I understand the issue of equal pay , and I think equal pay be essential , important and legally necessary , but what we have here be a reduction in pay for a significant group of worker . how can they possibly be hold responsible for the financial problem that Birmingham city council have ? be their case not entirely justify — that they be protect their own wage and condition , as any good trade union would do in any negotiation ? can not he simply accept and understand that , and that be the basis on which a settlement be agree , so that they can return to work ? the way the right hon . Member start be where I would hope most local authority do when look at equal pay , but the reality be that there will always be winner and loser in equal pay where woman have be underpaid for a long time . council have option here : they can either compensate and pay upwards for all the female worker in post to the comparable male worker , which for most council in most circumstance will not be affordable , because there be huge sum attach to that ; or , to make a package affordable , they have to equalise it out in consultation with the trade union . that be exactly what have happen in Birmingham . the issue in Birmingham be very particular to the waste service , where a previous agreement be reach that honestly do not hold when assess against equal pay in term of the task that be carry out by those worker . in the end , it do not pass the equal pay test , but that be not to say that we be not urge the council and Unite the trade union to continue negotiation to resolve this . we absolutely want the right outcome for the worker and the resident of Birmingham . I , too , thank my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) for table this urgent question . I also thank the Minister for his answer , and I sympathise with his position , but replace this workforce , police the dispute and pay the legal fee have cost the already overstretch council £ 4 million . all the while , the good people of Birmingham — the very people who vote in a Labour council and many Labour Members of Parliament — be live in foul misery . do the Minister agree that it would save million of pound , improve our relationship with the dedicated bin worker and restore a basic necessity to the people of Birmingham if he intervene to get we out of this stink ? our starting point , of course , be that we want all party to negotiate in good faith , and we want the local authority to do its good to table a deal that go as far as it can go , but the red line have to be that it can not compromise and completely unravel the equal pay negotiation that have take place , to which all the trade union — not just Unite — have be a party . therein lie the issue . the hon . Member could rightly say — I think this be what he indicate — " surely you just pay what it take to resolve the issue with the strike bin worker , " but for the equal pay package to hold , a comparable payment would need to be make to all the female worker in scope , so the number he talk about be fantasyland . they be not single - digit million ; they be ten or hundred of million of pound , which go above both legality and affordability for the local authority . we have urge the council to negotiate in good faith with the trade union and to go as far as it can go , provide that it be lawful , affordable and do not undermine the equal pay liability so far . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) on table this urgent question and thank the Minister for his response . the Birmingham bin strike be not just about waste . they be about what happen when the state retreat from local service without proper reform . the UK must confront the legacy of austerity , rethink how local government be fund and run and treat frontline worker with the respect and fairness they deserve . failure to do so risk further breakdown in public service and public trust not just in Birmingham but all over our country . will the Minister explain what step the Government be take to analyse how we get into this mess in the first place and to ensure that no other council face the same situation anywhere in our country ? we have to accept that there be some issue here that be unique to Birmingham . for instance , many council across England deal with equal pay over a decade ago , and Birmingham do not , which be why the liability have escalate in the way they have . on the hon . member ' s fundamental point about fair funding and ensure that local public service can be rebuild , we can agree . we believe that most people ' s local neighbourhood service have be impact so heavily by not only austerity but the growth in demand in adult ' s , child ' s and temporary accommodation that we have to completely rethink both how we fund local government and how we reinvest back into prevention and early intervention to prevent that crisis management model . I thank the Minister for his answer and wish he well in his endeavour to enable a solution to be find . the Government have state that they be commit to a " sustainable resolution " to the severe backlog of uncollected waste and the ongoing pay dispute . the worker state that they face cut of some £ 8 , 000 per year , which would be a devastating loss for those with family and responsibility . will the Minister acknowledge that reduce current wage be not the way forward and that the Government must intervene now , to make worker feel worthwhile and to sustain trust between the council and the worker ? whoever be negotiate in this environment will have the same guardrail as the local authority do . the local authority have to be mindful of the equal pay package that it have agree with all the trade union , and it can not do anything in this very narrow dispute — however impactful it be on the worker and local resident — that mean completely unravel the equal pay package . I share the hon . member ' s concern about the impact , but it be important that the local authority and Unite the trade union continue those talk and try to find a resolution . with that be the final question , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I wish you and other Members of the House a peaceful recess ? thank you . orgreave Inquiry with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement regard this Government ' s commitment to establish the truth about event at Orgreave in 1984 . the clash at Orgreave coke plant in 1984 be etch indelibly into our nation ' s memory . the clash mark a pivotal moment in the nationwide miner ' strike that be ongoing during that period . some 95 picketer be arrest and charge with riot and violent disorder , but all charge be later drop after evidence be discredit . as a result of the violence , there be serious implication for the relationship between policing and coalfield community at that time , and the passage of time have not diminish the impact on those present and their family . on Thursday last week , the Home Secretary visit the site of the former Orgreave coking plant , along with campaigner from the National Union of Mineworkers and the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , as well as a number of member of this House and the Mayor of South Yorkshire . I know that the Home Secretary be very grateful to all those who take the time to attend and that she be move by the experience they share and by walk part of the route that picketer walk on that day 41 year ago . it be this Labour Government ' s commitment to get truth and justice for those coalfield community . it be important to note that there have be significant change in the oversight of police since 1984 and the way in which public order be police . nevertheless , question about the specific event at Orgreave have remain unanswered for far too long . More than four decade may have pass , but those question must still be answer . that be why we commit in Labour ' s manifesto to ensure , through an investigation or inquiry , that the truth about event at Orgreave come to light . yesterday we make good on that promise , as the Home Secretary announce the establishment of an inquiry into event surround the clash at the Orgreave coking plant in 1984 . the Rt Rev Dr Pete Wilcox , the Bishop of Sheffield , have agree to chair the inquiry . the bishop be a very well - respect member of the local and wide regional community in South Yorkshire , and his credibility and impartiality will stand he in very good stead to deliver this inquiry . he will be support by a small panel of independent expert who will be appoint in due course , in a similar vein to the Hillsborough panel chair by the Bishop of Liverpool in 2010 . the purpose of the inquiry will be to aid public understanding of how the violent clash and injury cause at Orgreave on 18 June 1984 , and the event immediately afterwards , come to pass . it will be a statutory inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2005 , with the appropriate power to compel the provision of information where necessary . the direction of the inquiry ' s investigation will be a matter for the chair . as the sponsor Department , the Home Office will provide support and ensure that the inquiry have the resource need to fulfil its term of reference , but it will have no other say in the conduct of the inquiry or the conclusion that it may reach until it be time for we to respond to they . it will be key for the inquiry to have access to all information that it deem relevant . for that reason , the Home Secretary have recently write to all police force , the National Police Chiefs ' Council , the College of Policing and all Government Departments to ask that all material they hold relate to the event at Orgreave be retain , in order that it can be provide in a timely manner to the inquiry if request . recognise the need to deliver swiftly while avoid any undue impact on individual ' wellbee , I hope the inquiry will look to previous example of good practice , such as the Hillsborough independent panel , to inform its method of delivery . the Home Secretary be in the process of consult the inquiry chair on propose term of reference . she have ask he to engage with key stakeholder , include the National Union of Mineworkers and the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , as part of that process . we will place a final copy of the term of reference in the Libraries of both Houses at the early opportunity thereafter . it be our expectation that the inquiry will launch in the autumn . for the police to perform their critical function effectively , it be essential that they can secure and maintain the confidence of the people they serve . that be why this Labour Government have make rebuild trust in police an integral part of our plan for change . of course , much of that effort be concern with strengthen force for the challenge of now and the future , but where historical event cast a long shadow that stretch into the present day in our coalfield community , we must shine a light on what happen and ensure that any and all lesson be learn . question about event at Orgreave have go unanswered for too long . this Government commit to put that right , and the upcoming inquiry will work independently , fairly and without fear or favour to establish the truth about what happen . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . grow up in the north - east , I know the emotion stir by the miner ' strike ; decade after the event , they continue to cause significant division and disagreement in our community . regardless of people ' s view on the right and wrong of the incident , historic event such as this , which see conflict and violence on our street , will always be deeply regrettable . we must acknowledge that in the decade since , no government — include the last Labour Government , which have 13 year — deem it necessary to establish such an inquiry . that Labour Government include three current Home Office Ministers , with the current Minister for Border Security and Asylum , the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , serve in the Home Office at the time . if this inquiry have a real contribution to make , why do the then Labour Government not hold one ? what have change ? as member will know , there have be previous call for such an inquiry , but when the decision be make not to grant one , it be base on reason ground . there have be a passage of time , and there have be significant legislative and systematic change in the decade since . as the Home Secretary say in her write statement , " there have be significant change in the oversight of police since 1984 , and to the way that public order be now police " . do the Minister believe that an inquiry be likely to result in any meaningful and relevant lesson for today ' s policing system ? the Minister be a long - stand advocate for those impact by infected blood — a case of truly disgraceful systematic treatment over decade . similarly , the Hillsborough panel highlight the deep injustice of a tragedy involve this police force , but both those inquiry understandably come at considerable cost . will the Minister outline what the Department anticipate that deliver a proportionate and meaningful inquiry on this issue will cost ? the press report on the propose chairman raise serious question about his ability to act in a politically neutral and independent manner . can the Minister assure the House that the inquiry will not be political in nature and that it will listen to the view of all party present on the day , so that it be not merely an example of the Government put the interest of the union ahead of the police ? as with so many issue recently , this raise question about the commitment of the Government to support brave police officer , who act within the law to do their job . can she confirm that the Government be commit to support police officer who put themselves in harm ' s way to keep public order and comply with their training and instruction ? finally , I note from the Government ' s publication that the inquiry will be statutory , with power to compel individual to provide information where necessary . that sound remarkably similar to a request that we have make to the Government , which be repeatedly reject . the victim and survivor of rape gang deserve detailed update on the progress of that inquiry , yet the lack of information about how the new inquiry will be set up and how it will compel evidence lead I to conclude that the Government have prioritise the miner over the minor who suffer horrific exploitation at the hand of rape gang . this Labour Government ' s union paymaster should not determine the pecking order of justice in this country . there be still perpetrator of child sexual exploitation and those who cover it up who have go unpunished , yet the Government have choose to prioritise this inquiry . in her audit , Baroness Casey speak of the need to implement inquiry that be time limited . I ask the Government to focus on this issue and , give their initial refusal to do so , ensure that action be take at a much great speed to bring about justice for those young , vulnerable woman who suffer at the hand of rape gang . I be go to start by say that I welcome the shadow Minister ' s initial comment , in which he recognise how the situation at Orgreave all those year ago still cast a shadow over community in Yorkshire , the north - east and other part of the country . I must say that I be surprise by some of his comment , because I know that he be a good man and be try his good to fulfil the role of shadow Policing Minister . I will answer his question , and will come on to the issue of groom gang that he raise in the latter part of his contribution , but I must say that I find his comment extremely distasteful , as well as not accurate or correct . first , I will deal with the question of why we be have this orgreave inquiry . our manifesto commit we to ensure that there be a thorough investigation or inquiry , so that " the truth about the event at Orgreave come to light . " we be deliver on that manifesto commitment today . as I say in my statement , we be also commit to rebuild public confidence in policing , and campaigner and mining community have spend decade search for answer about what happen . the purpose of the inquiry will be to aid the public understanding of how the event at Orgreave on 18 June 1984 and immediately afterwards come to pass . I hope that explain why we be take this action today . the shadow Minister ask about the cost . we have be very clear that the Home Office will meet the cost of the inquiry . we be also mindful that we want the inquiry to be as expeditious as possible , and to be value for money . that be why we have look at the model of the Hillsborough independent inquiry — we think that be a good model to follow . certainly , there will be conversation with the chair about the project cost and the timeline that he will want to set out . turn to the issue of the chair , again I be really disappoint by the shadow Minister ' s remark about the bishop . Bishop Pete have previously support call for an inquiry . it be important to note that that be in the context of his pastoral role , in which he have support member of the diocese of Sheffield who be impact by the event at Orgreave . he certainly do not show any favour towards either the police or the picketer when call for that inquiry . I do not think that that call detract from the necessary credibility , impartiality and independence that I believe Bishop Pete will bring to his role as chair of the inquiry . he have the backing and support of the key stakeholder in take that role forward . it be also important to remember that the chair of the inquiry will be support by a small group of independent member , who will have expert knowledge in certain area to help the chair fulfil his term of reference . as the shadow Minister say , the inquiry be statutory . that be because we recognise the importance of ensure that document can be bring forward . it be important that people can be compel to produce document and that witness can be compel as well . finally , the shadow Minister refer to the issue of groom gang . he will know that a great deal of work have be do to make sure that the hideous , appal situation that have be uncover around the groom gang will now be deal with . the Safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , have give statement to the House , as have the Home Secretary , and there have be a clear list of the action that be be take . it be absolutely right that that work be do . of course , when the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse be set up under the previous Government , there be support across the House for the work of Professor Alexis Jay . it be a great pity that the previous Government do not enact any of Professor Jay ' s recommendation . that be the hugely shameful state of affair that this Government inherit , but I be absolutely clear that this Government be deal with grooming gang . that be the right thing to do , but equally , set up the Orgreave inquiry today be the right thing to do . I very much welcome the Policing Minister announce to the House the action that the Government will be take . I be active at the time of the miner ' strike , and I now represent 23 former mining village . many of the man I represent be at Orgreave , and if we be to take even a small sample of opinion as to what those man think happen there , they would say that the finger point in one direction only : at no . 10 , and at people closely associate with Mrs Thatcher . I want to ask about the inquiry ' s term of reference . on the day , 90 - odd man be arrest on trump - up charge , with evidence falsify by police officer . I have meet some of those police officer , and they say that they have order from above tell they what to say and what to write . that be a serious matter : man be put on bail , put in prison or even hospitalise , all on trump - up charge . will the inquiry ' s term of reference allow the bishop — who be a good man — to pursue the trail of evidence wherever it lead , in order to determine once and for all how that injustice be organise by people in the conservative party ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question ; I know that he have a great deal of experience and knowledge in this area . as I say in my statement , the term of reference be currently be discuss with the chair , but it be very clear that the inquiry should look at the evidence , and should hear testimony if that be what it wish to do . it will do so without fear or favour , wherever the evidence lead it to look . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I come into the Chamber for this statement to hear and speak about the Orgreave inquiry , so it be pretty shocking to hear the shadow Minister use it as an opportunity to yet again play politic with child sexual abuse and exploitation . as a survivor myself , I find that particularly appalling . the liberal Democrats welcome the announcement of a statutory inquiry into the event that take place between police and miner at Orgreave on 18 June 1984 . for year , those catch up in the harrowing event of that day have have to carry the painful trauma of that unresolved injustice — not just the injury sustain , but the police charge that be subsequently drop . over 40 year on , we must come together to ensure that this inquiry reach its full potential and uncover the answer that those impact deeply deserve . that must include proper consultation , which will be key to rebuild public trust . I would therefore welcome more detail from the Minister about how local community , campaigner , and impact miner and their family will be involve throughout the inquiry . inquiry can be a powerful tool for uncover the truth about injustice , but they will only reach their full potential when there be a duty of candour that require public official and authority to co - operate fully . as such , although the Government have commit to bring such a duty of candour into force , will the Minister take this opportunity to provide a clear timeline for introduce a Hillsborough law to Parliament ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for what he have say . to put thing in context , the Home Secretary and I have meet a range of key stakeholder already to hear their respective view on the scope and nature of the Orgreave inquiry and what it should seek to achieve . there have already be a consultation with the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , the National Union of Mineworkers , South Yorkshire police , the Mayor of South Yorkshire and many member of this House who have an interest in this issue , include my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , as Orgreave lie in her constituency . we have also meet other interested party in the field of law . one of they whom I meet personally be Michael Mansfield KC . he be the lawyer who represent a number of those who be charge at Orgreave . we have also meet academic , because we know that there be value in look at what academic can show we about what work with inquiry . we have therefore already engage in a lot of consultation . there be far ongoing consultation on the term of reference , and that be the responsibility of the chair . I expect that all the party we have meet will be engage again . there be active work be do on the Hillsborough law at the moment . I can not give a timeline today , but I know that it will be bring to the House shortly . it be a privilege to be in the Chamber today to hear that we be finally get the inquiry that have long be campaign for by the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , the NUM and many in my community and across South Yorkshire . they be simply ask for the truth . the shadow Minister have just say that the inquiry should not be politicise , but do the Minister agree that Orgreave be political ? it be one of the most political thing that have ever happen to South Yorkshire , and it be incredibly important that the inquiry be put on a statutory footing so that it can compel people to give evidence and get to the truth of something that many in our community still bear the scar of . my hon . friend speak with great knowledge about how Orgreave have affect her community so many year on . she make the important point that there be a political context to this inquiry . those of we who be around then know that it be a very political time , with the miner ' strike and all that . it be absolutely right that we have this opportunity to look across the piece at what happen at Orgreave . as my hon . friend the Member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) say , there be perhaps the involvement of other politician , so it be important that we recognise the political context . that be why , again , it be so important that the inquiry will be put on a statutory footing , to allow document to be demand and witness to be compel to give evidence . first , I welcome the statement that have be make by the Minister today . it be an enormous step forward , and we should pay a huge tribute to the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , and in particular Kate Flannery and Chris Peace and their colleague , for all the great work that they have do for a long time . Labour pledge to hold an inquiry in its last three manifesto — in 2017 , 2019 and 2024 — so this be a good step forward . will the Minister bear in mind carefully what the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) say in his excellent question ? life be ruin . People be badly injure as a result of Orgreave . they suffer for many year and be unable to work because they be blacklist and for other reason . charge be make on trump - up evidence and consequently people suffer . it have go on for a long time . we need to know a number of thing . will the term of reference allow evidence to be take under oath from wherever it need to be take , and from whoever be there ? Arthur Scargill and many other , and all those survive miner who be there must be give time to explain exactly what happen . we also need to know the role of South Yorkshire police in the attack that take place against those miner , so that we can get to the truth . I realise that put a timetable on an inquiry be a slightly difficult thing to do , because we do not want to prevent the inquiry from get all the evidence it need , but we also do not want the inquiry to run on forever and lose its impetus and purpose . can the Minister therefore give we some idea of roughly how long she expect the inquiry to take to report ? be she prepared to accept interim report , so that rapid progress can be make ? will the Minister assure the House that where the evidence lead to the culpability of Ministers , police officer , senior civil servant or many other throughout the command chain for the event that the hon . member for Normanton and Hemsworth explain , prosecution will follow , with evidence put before the court and , if necessary , people bring to justice for it ? we have to bring justice to the totality of this event . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman about pay tribute to the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign . I have the privilege to meet some of the member of that campaign , and I fully acknowledge and appreciate how life be ruin and family have suffer a lot . not just the people there on the day , but the wide family have suffer . it be absolutely right that we set up this inquiry ; life have be ruin . I know that the chair will take note of the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about what he would like to see in the term of reference . as to the timetable , I absolutely agree . I want this inquiry to be conduct as quickly as possible , but as thoroughly as possible . we be look at a timeframe of around two year , but that be in the early discussion that we have . I obviously can not prejudge the recommendation of the inquiry ; we will need to look at those recommendation when they be make . as chair of the coalfield group of Labour MPs , and on behalf of the group , I welcome this statement . it be an historic moment , and I know that Orgreave Truth and justice campaigner and many more labour colleague would have be present have they have a little more notice . the Minister will know that , even last year , organisation such as Northumbria police be destroy document . those action could hinder this inquiry , and it be vital that individual and organisation be hold accountable , not just for what happen 40 year ago , but for any attempt to undermine justice by destroy evidence . will the Minister confirm that the inquiry will have access to all information and evidence , and that no further document will be destroy or evidence withhold ? will the inquiry have the power to compel witness testimony ? I hope that this inquiry will not only uncover the truth , but make recommendation to right the wrong do to many miner , include some of my constituent , who be wrongly convict under riot and unlawful assembly law . Ray Patterson , now sadly no long with we , be one of those miner . I thank the Minister and the Government for honour the manifesto pledge . first , I will deal with this issue around document . the Home Secretary recently write to all police force in England and Wales and all Government Departments to remind they of the relevant legislative framework for record management and to ask that information relate to the event at Orgreave on 18 June 1984 be retain . the Home Secretary have ask , if any document have be destroy , what those document be and why they be destroy . it be also worth remind the House that under section 35 of the Inquiries Act 2005 , it be a criminal offence to destroy or conceal information relevant to a public inquiry . I thank the Minister very much for her statement , and for her carefully choose word on a contentious issue . I ask she this question gently from experience . do she appreciate that , similar to the prosecution of veteran and service personnel in Northern Ireland , ask a retire officer why he make a split - second decision 40 year ago , what be happen in detail when he make that decision and the exact wording of direction give to he be and can be incredibly distressing and upsetting ? those officer be now in their 80 or perhaps even their 90 . what support can the Minister offer they to enable they to cope with the re - traumatisation that they will undoubtedly suffer ? that be an important point . this be not the first time a Minister have have to stand here and agree to an inquiry into event that happen a long time ago . the hon . Gentleman and I have work together on the infected blood inquiry , so he will know that it take a long time to arrive at that point . I fully recognise that the length of time involve mean some people , sadly , will have die , while other will be very elderly and have to recall what happen . this be not how we would want it to be , be it ? as for the hon . Gentleman ' s point about those who will be call to give testimony to the inquiry , I know that the bishop will be consider what support should be provide to help the witness , whether they be police officer or picketer and their family , and I be sure that that will be uppermost in his mind . as one who represent a constituency in the heart of the Durham coalfield , I recognise the press need for an inquiry into the event that occur at the Orgreave plant on 18 June 1984 , and , like other , I send a huge thank you to the member of the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign , who have work for decade for this moment . do the Minister share my frustration at the length of time it have take the House to invoke such a crucial inquiry , and will she commit herself to investigate the role and involvement of central Government in the planning and instruction on how to allocate resource — financial and otherwise — in the lead - up to , during and after that day at the height of the 1984 - 85 miner ' strike in Rotherham ? I bitterly regret the fact that it have take so long for the inquiry to be establish . as I have say , there be a number of other cause , but we should have be look at this far early . I think it helpful that member be express their view about what should be cover by the term of reference for the inquiry , because I know that the bishop will want to note what the House and its member have to say and ensure that they form part of his discussion about those term of reference . it be allege that Amber Rudd refuse to hold an Orgreave inquiry because it would slur the memory of Thatcher . can the Minister confirm that this inquiry will have a statutory power to compel witness to provide evidence , and that politic will not get in the way of uncover the truth once and for all ? I can absolutely confirm that this be a statutory inquiry , with all the legal power that a statutory inquiry have to compel the provision of document and of evidence from witness and to go wherever the evidence lead it . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for miscarriage of justice and a lifelong trade unionist , I welcome the long overdue announcement of a statutory inquiry into Orgreave and pay tribute to all who have campaign for truth and justice , particularly the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign . however , give the serious concern about evidence that have be destroy , tamper with or withhold , will the Minister confirm that any inquiry will be underpin by a clear legal duty of candour to guarantee full transparency and accountability on the part of all those involve , include the police and former Government official , so that the victim and campaigner receive the full answer that they deserve ? we give careful consideration to the role play by the Hillsborough independent inquiry , because we think it would be very useful for the chair of this inquiry to look at the model that it provide . I take my hon . friend ' s point about the duty of candour , and work be be do on put that into statute , but the bishop will be look at all these issue . I remember clearly the miner ' strike of 1984 and , in particular , what happen at Orgreave , and I know that it have many painful memory for a lot of people , so let I first thank and commend the Government for hold this statutory public inquiry . it appear that after four decade we will finally secure some truth and justice in relation to what happen on 18 June 1984 , and also what happen to the 95 miner and how they be treat . will the Minister please assure the House that if the inquiry do reveal evidence of misconduct and wrongdoing , the necessary action will be take , and that we will learn lesson to ensure that nothing like this ever happen again ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his comment . it be clear that once the inquiry have be establish we must let it do its work and make its recommendation , and we will then seek to respond to those recommendation . I thank the Minister for her statement and for launch the inquiry , thus keep our manifesto promise . in coalfield community such as mine , many former miner still bear the scar , physical and mental , of what happen at Orgreave 41 year ago , and our town and village still feel that collective sense of injustice . a great many man want to share their story of that day , to ensure their own closure but also to ensure that the truth will out . will the Minister assure my constituent , and ex - miner up and down the country , that they will have an opportunity to contribute to the inquiry ? I be sure that the bishop will listen carefully to the comment that member have make . I know that some people would feel very comfortable talk about what happen , explain and give testimony , while other would not want to do that . it will be for the bishop to decide on the good way forward , to ensure that the inquiry hear from individual and have access to the document , and he will be set out the term of reference shortly . I strongly welcome the Minister ' s statement and the fulfilment of that manifesto commitment and , like other , I pay tribute to the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign . I be sure that member across the House will have be disturb by report of the destruction of potentially relevant document — a point that have already be ably raise . the Home Office be currently consider the case for institute a public inquiry into the 1974 Birmingham pub bombing , and I do not expect the Minister to pre - empt that today , but in respect of the preservation of record , will the Department consider take the same action to preserve potentially relevant document , include those hold by external body , in advance of that decision ? the Northumbria police case highlight the particular risk of accidental loss or deliberate destruction in advance of that legal protection kick in . I would welcome the chance to discuss this matter far with the Minister . I be very happy to discuss this matter with my hon . friend . I think it worth point out that police force be independent of Government and that decision concern the management of their record be for they to make in accordance with their respective review and policy on retention and disposal . the Government expect any such decision to be make in accordance with relevant legislation and national guidance and , as I have say , it be a criminal offence to destroy document that may be relevant or to conceal information that would interest a public inquiry . music Streaming : Label - lead Principles and now for something completely different . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement about the Government ' s progress with industry on the remuneration of artist in the music sector . music be not just the food of love . it do not just set our heart dance and express our deep desire . it do not just showcase the UK to the world . as part of our dynamic creative industry , which we have identify as one of the eight priority growth sector in our industrial strategy , it be key to our economic future as well . that be why music be at the heart of our new 10 - year creative industry sector plan . our new music growth package will more than double government funding for the industry to £ 10 million annually for the next three year . that will help UK artist to achieve domestic and international success , while nurture our grassroots music scene . we want the UK music industry to thrive , but we know that it will not unless artist receive their fair share of the reward , especially in the new era of streaming . the stereotype of artist starve in garret be not a model for a successful industry . musician deserve their fair reward , and the industry will only flourish if new generation of musician be able to make a living , so it be with pleasure that I announce today an important milestone : UK record label have agree to new measure that will boost the earning of legacy artist , songwriter and session musician . the UK music industry be a global powerhouse . Coldplay , Adele , Stormzy , Ed Sheeran , Dua Lipa , Raye , Bryn Terfel , Alfie Boe , Iestyn davy — our country have be the birthplace of genre - define talent that have shape the soundtrack of generation , so it be no surprise that we be the third large music market in the world , and the second large record music exporter . the first music streaming service start in 2001 , and streaming now account for a majority of music revenue . this have create a series of challenge for the UK music industry , radically transform how audience experience music , how musician earn a living , how record label treat their artist , and how artist access different market . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee seek to address some of these issue in an important report on music stream in 2021 . in response , the Competition and Markets Authority complete a market study into music streaming , and the Intellectual Property Office conduct research on potential copyright reform . in spring 2024 , three year after the Committee ' s report , the then Government finally launch the creator remuneration working group , which be task with " explore and consider industry - lead action on remuneration from music stream for exist and future music creator " . the Government convene the group once before the general election , and I chair my first meeting with it within a month of take office . I be pleased to announce that after six meeting and a series of bilateral discussion — some of they quite difficult — this work have result in a set of measure from UK record label that they estimate will deliver ten of million of pound of new investment to support UK artist by 2030 . central to this be a new set of principle that will be adopt by the British Phonographic Industry and the Association of Independent Music , and recommend to their UK label member . some independent label be already implement the principle , and I be delighted to say that the three major label — Universal Music Group , Sony Music Entertainment and Warner Music Group — will adopt they and introduce bespoke package to boost the earning of artist , especially legacy artist who sign up before streaming come on to the scene . in order to address the specific challenge face by small label , the BPI and the AIM be encourage they to provide targeted support that be appropriate for their size and resource . the principle will commit label across the UK to provide targeted support for legacy artist , songwriter and session musician . for legacy artist , this include disregard unrecouped advance , bespoke support to increase streaming engagement , and much great clarity about the process of contract renegotiation . for songwriter , the support include the payment of per diem for the first time , with major label Warner UK and Universal UK commit to a payment of £ 75 per day , in addition to expense . Sony UK will fund a bespoke new songwriter support programme , in partnership with the Ivors Academy , to provide financial support and assistance to songwriter ; these payment will not be charge as a recoupable cost from their advance . for session musician , the support include an increase in session fee , agree at the end of last year , and a commitment to review their income from broadcast and public performance . the principle announce today will complement the industry code of good practice on transparency , and the industry agreement on metadata , which we publish in 2024 . they mark a major milestone in the Government ' s work with the music industry in response to the Culture , Media and Sport Committee ' s 2021 report on the economic of music streaming . some concern remain with regard to the deal for session musician , which be why I will convene a further meeting with industry to discuss those issue . we want these measure to be deliver in full , so that artist see real improvement . the Secretary of State and I want legacy artist to see their work revitalise and introduce to new audience , and to have their unrecouped balance disregard and their contract renegotiate . in order to track progress and measure success , we will work closely with member of the creator remuneration working group , include the Council of Music Makers , on implement a robust monitoring process , through which we can evaluate the extent to which the principle improve earning , as intend . the Government will then assess the need for further intervention to ensure that this package deliver on its objective of bring about real change for creator . this be neither the end of the road nor the lifting of the needle on the record , but it be a pivotal point . if the principle we have discuss be truly implement , they have the potential to improve the life of artist across the UK . I be deeply grateful to the BPI , the major label and the Association of Independent Music for engage with this work . I want to recognise the dedication of the Council of Music Makers , which include the Featured Artists Coalition , the Ivors Academy , the Music Managers Forum , the Music Producers Guild and the Musicians ' Union , for its tireless commitment to its member . finally , my thank go to the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and its predecessor Committees for shine a powerful light on this issue . I commend this statement to the House . a love of music be something we all share . all of we have favourite song that make up the soundtrack to the most meaningful moment in our life — moment of joy and sorrow . they be song that live forever . our music industry be a true global success story ; it have global star like Adele , Ed Sheeran , and my favourite band , Oasis , and world - class cultural institution such as the Royal Academy of Music and the London Symphony Orchestra . our music industry remain one of our great and strong export to the world . it not only showcase our talent on the world stage , but contribute £ 8 billion to our economy . it be truly a jewel in the crown of our thriving creative sector . as the Minister have note , streaming have transform the music industry , benefit both listener and artist . audience now have access to more music than ever before , and artist can reach listener on a scale they could only dream of in the past . however , as the Minister identifie , there be concern about whether artist receive a fair deal in this delicate ecosystem , and the opposition share that concern . although contract between artist , label and streaming platform be private commercial agreement , I know that member on both side of the House agree that the success of streaming should not come at the expense of artist ' livelihood . in 2022 , the previous Conservative Government ask the Competition and Markets Authority to conduct a study into the music and streaming service . I be encourage to learn that the CMA find no evidence of publishing revenue be suppress by distorted or restricted competition , and that the share of streaming revenue go to publisher and songwriter have increase from 8 % in 2008 to 15 % in recent year . however , concern remain , especially around the use of artificial intelligence across the creative industry . I know that the Government have commission independent research on the impact on creator , performer and the wide industry of potential change to copyright law in the area of equitable remuneration , contract adjustment and right reversion . furthermore , the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation have complete research on the playlisting algorithm use by streaming service . I can assure the Minister that Members on both side of the House want a well deal for artist , songwriter and performer . that be why we broadly welcome the Government take an industry - lead approach to this issue . if only they do that elsewhere ! I must , however , press the Minister to provide assurance to the House . first , what consequence will there be for label that fail to comply with the new principle , and what percentage of artist do he believe will benefit from today ' s announcement ? secondly , what message do he have for creative and publisher who remain deeply concerned that they be not be fairly reward for their hard work ? lastly , will the Government commit to review these reform within 18 month , to ensure that they be work for the industry ? incidentally , I see that the former shadow Secretary of State be here , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , now shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . we wish he well in his new job . it be a great delight to hear from the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , but he be always so grumpy when he actually want to say , " well do . " I do not know about you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I sometimes think of the Conservatives as the " all fur coat and nothing else " party , because they make nice statement but never actually do anything . it be fascinating to hear he say , " we have a concern about the remuneration of musician . " why do they do absolutely nothing on this subject when they be in government ? it have take a Labour Government to sit down with industry and creator to make sure that we deliver a change for people . the hon . Gentleman ask what happen if people fail to comply . I be absolutely confident that all the label that we be talk about will want to adopt the principle , because they have be part of the negotiating process . we have to have tough conversation at various point , but they have sign up to the principle and will deliver on they . I be confident that if any legacy artist say to their label , " I want to renegotiate my contract , " they will have a chance to renegotiate , although the precise term of that renegotiation will of course be a matter for the artist and the label . some people who sign a contract before streaming come into existence might have be on a rate of something like 8 % , 9 % , 10 % or 11 % . they will be able to negotiate that up to a digital right more like 20 % , 25 % or 30 % . that will make a significant difference to legacy artist . many people have make the very strong point that it be all very well increase the number of stream of a legacy artist ' s work , but if they do not get any more money as a result , that will not really benefit either the record label or the legacy artist . I be very confident that this package will deliver . the hon . Gentleman ask about have a review in 18 month ' time . I can do well than that : as I have say , we will review this in 12 month ' time , because if the package have not deliver , we reserve the right to bring in legislation . I make this point several time . in the EU , there be an equitable renumeration clause in legislation , and if we feel the need for that , we could progress that . however , after our really good discussion with all the party , I be very confident that all of they want to comply with this package . I will make one other point about songwriter . lot of people know the famous name we all talk about — the hon . Gentleman refer to Ed Sheeran , Oasis and so on — but a lot of those who really deliver be the songwriter ; they create the thing that rattle around our brain for year and year . make sure that they be not out of pocket be one of the really important principle I want to adopt . I be really proud that , for the first time , there will be per diem — £ 75 a day , plus expense — to make sure that no songwriter be out of pocket . that be match with the deal that the Ivors Academy be do with Sony , for £ 100 , 000 a year . we have to invest in the songwriter of the future , so that we have the strong music industry we want for the future , but I be not impressed by his fur - coatery . on famous name , I call Paul Waugh . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . first , I declare an interest , in that my son Fin be a member of the band Big Huge New Circle , whose late single " Pearl " be out on Spotify , and be recommend by Clash magazine , which call it " beautifully complex " . I welcome today ' s announcement , particularly the introduction of per diem and the session musician uplift . I thank the former Member for Cardiff West , who be sit in the Peers ' Gallery , for all his work on this . it be hugely welcome , and perfectly time for the Musicians ' Union delegate conference this week . give the widespread concern about fair pay for streaming , and how long it have be since our Select Committee first report on this , can the Minister explain what further power the Government hold to intervene if these industry - lead measure fall short ? first of all , can I wish — be it big Huge New Circle ? [ interruption . ] yes , Big Huge New Circle . so we have get it in Hansard three time now . I will take my fee later — 10 % obviously . or 15 % ; it be 15 % for lot of agent these day . obviously , the future of the music industry in the UK depend on have a pipeline . the single most important thing we can do be make sure that every single child have an opportunity to be a musician at school . creative education in our school not only deliver by provide musician , but be a force multipli for lot of other form of education . that be something on which I be work very closely with the Department for Education . I note that Lord Brennan be up in the Gallery — that be another song from music hall , I think . my hon . friend be absolutely right that Lord Brennan , who be on the Select Committee , be one of the drive force make sure that there be not only a first report , but a second report in the last Parliament ; he hold the Government ' s foot to the fire . I be determined to do precisely the same when it come to the record label . I honestly believe that we will now have one of the good arrangement in the world for the remuneration of artist from streaming , and I be sure that the record label will stick with the arrangement . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Britain ' s musician have long be our most beloved cultural treasure . in the crowded field of excellence in our creative sector , our musician be some of our proud export . they be part of a £ 124 billion industry that drive our economy , so support for our legacy and session musician be completely overdue and very welcome . the musician cover include the Devines in Berkhamsted , upcoming artist like Myles Smith , and national treasure like Elton John — I agree that Adele be one of our national treasure — and , as be mention , all those around they : songwriter , producer , and those who support they . technological change mean that online streaming now constitute the vast bulk of music consumption , and 120 , 000 new track a day be upload to music platform . this often leave a hole in musician ' income , so it be absolutely right that the Government be take this issue seriously . we simply need to get this right , so I ask the Minister to clarify for the House how much confidence we can really have that the principle he be spell out will finally lead to a more equitable distribution of stream revenue . ultimately , this be a label - lead , voluntary framework ; where be the independent oversight ? crucially , what guarantee be there of consistency or enforcement across the industry ? we have raise this issue many time in the past , but it remain true that if we be serious about protect artist ' right to remuneration , we need to ensure that copyright , which have underpin success for decade , work in our digitally evolve world . musician and creative face an AI tsunami , which could pose a threat to their livelihood ; we need to tackle it seriously . I conclude by ask the Minister once more to consider swifter action from the Government on copyright and data mining , in order to support our musician and creative , as well as innovation across the UK . I think the hon . member be in danger of become a national treasure herself . [ interruption . ] oh , I see that I have not unite the House on that , but — [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Daventry can not keep heckle ; he be the shadow Health Secretary now . the important point be that the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) ask what confidence we can have that this will be adhere to , and I be very confident that it will . I have have face - to - face conversation with all the chief executive of the major record label , and although sometimes I have be ask they to go far , they have go that extra mile , and I be absolutely sure that they will deliver on this . I be confident that any legacy artist who want to renegotiate their contract will be able to do so . we will be look at precisely how that happen . if anybody be not happy with their renegotiation , we have include in the principle a means of appeal . that be obviously a major role of the Musicians ' Union , but if by the autumn we suddenly find that lot of musician be say , " excuse I , but I haven ' t manage to renegotiate with my label " , then we will be return to this issue . the record label be fully aware of that , but they be determined : each be go to put together a bespoke package to try to revitalise legacy work . they be also look at wipe off unrecoupe balance and make sure people can earn more into the future . the one thing I have always be nervous about it be that I do not think government should be write contract . this be really important . Julie Andrews , when she take the role of Maria in " the Sound of Music " , decide — or this be how the negotiation end up — that she would just take an up - front free , and she never get pay any royalty thereafter . that be probably a poor decision , or she be not give any other choice . however , I think Schwarzenegger , when he make movie , quite often decide to take the royalty and do not take any up - front fee . different artist will enter renegotiation in different way , but we want to rebalance the equation so that it be more in the interest of the musician , and that be what we have do . I welcome this statement ; it be brilliant . three week ago , I have the most fantastic visit to Universal Music — thank to Charlotte Allan for sort that out . I also speak to the chief executive , Dickon . their support , love and continued passion for bring in new artist be really transparent and obvious to I , so to hear this arrangement for legacy artist be just wonderful . it be not do in a timely enough manner , but it be wonderful that , just over a year after get into power , we have effect this change ; I thank the Minister for that . I be also very pleased to see in the statement a commitment to have more conversation with session musician on ensure that they get the recognition they should be get . will he give I some idea of the timeframe for those next step ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for what she say about Dickon . he be really very helpful at Universal in the process of get we to this place , particularly on the issue of per diem — the £ 75 a day — which be one of the major ask of the Ivors Academy , and I be really pleased we be able to do that . she be right that we need to look at session musician , and of one of the undertaking I have make be that I will be get the BPI and the Musicians ' Union together to discuss that matter again this autumn . I hope that will be in the first couple of week of September . give the Minister ' s helpful reference of a sartorial nature to his opposite number , may I congratulate he on his carefully understate choice of necktie today ? I shall certainly remember to bring my dark glass next time he be on parade . can he explain to I — as an ardent Swiftie myself — what protection performer , such as the son of the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , have against their track be upload by anyone to a service such as YouTube , whereby it be possible for people to enjoy their music without apparently pay they any royalty at all ? I be grateful for the comment about my tie . I would say that it be understate compare to some of the other tie I have wear , so I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his commendation on my sartorial elegance . but he be wrong about YouTube . youtube be one of the streaming service and people be remunerate . one could argue that they should be remunerate more , but if people be breach copyright , that be an offence and it need to be pursue . record label be pretty keen on do so on behalf of their artist , but , as I say , YouTube be one of the stream outlet . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his work along with the Government . we will now be among world leader in support our creative industry , especially on streaming remuneration . will he outline how he will ensure the change fairly benefit all artist , include legacy performer , session musician and those outside major label ? what step will be take to enforce industry - wide implementation , especially if voluntary measure fall short ? the argument for do this be partly because all musician simply do not earn enough to make a living . that be the truth of the matter . have 12 million streaming might equate to earn a theoretical amount of money , but the musician will not earn that amount because it will be dilute by the various process it go through — the money the agent take and all the rest of it . maybe that be why so many artist have produce song about poverty — even Destiny ' s child , with " Bills , Bills , Bills " . it have be an obsession for many artist . there be sometimes the impression that an artist , in music or in any other creative industry , can only be really good if they have struggle a bit , but the truth be that we want people to be able to make a living out of their creative industry . a key part of be a Labour Government be be able to deliver that . may I invite the Minister to congratulate Isle of Wight band Wet Leg on reach the top of the album chart , a particular achievement give that it have beat Oasis , which I know have personally disappoint my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) ? yes , I be more Wet Leg than Oasis as well . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on music , I commend the Minister on do an excellent job of bring record label into these new provision . the history of the music industry be sadly full of tale of exploitation , and the industry have prove notable for its intransigence . protect the dignity of british songwriter by put money in their pocket be a welcome step , and it be pleasing to see great transparency over artist ' renegotiation . however , it be clear that the label provision , as helpful as they be , do not change or rectify the economic injustice of the streaming model as it stand . as the Minister know , copyright law be not bring up to do date for streaming , never mind for what be approach with AI . More than half the membership of the Musicians ' Union earn less than £ 14 , 000 a year . I commend the Minister for his effort , but can he also offer Members reassurance that this be not job do , when so many music creator and worker be still so poorly serve by current arrangement ? what more be he go to do for new and emerge artist in term of the streaming model ? the one bit we have not be able to address be the amount of money that go from the streamer themselves directly to the record label . that be an international settlement , so it be more difficult for we to address . there be a time , when I first arrive in the House , when musician be get absolutely nothing and the amount of money go to record label and musician fall off a cliff because of pirated music . spotify and other streaming service then come into the equation and manage to rectify some of that , but the situation be far from ideal . I wish more of the money be go directly to the artist . it be my own personal decision that I do not stream music ; I buy music , because I think more of the money go to the artist that way . but of course , for million of people in the UK — even for the Swiftie over there on the Opposition Benches , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) — I be sure that streaming be a convenient way of access music that they might never have come across otherwise . I welcome today ' s announcement , not least because I be the mum of an aspire composer and performer . I be pleased that the Minister mention the work of teacher and the Department for Education in support music in school . credit should go to Mr Wardrobe from Downlands community school in Hassocks for put together the band Room 3 , by literally put they in the practice room , room 3 , when they be at school . they be now do really well and perform regularly in Brighton . how can the Minister ensure that the benefit announce today be not just concentrate in London , but benefit all the region , include Sussex ? I commend Mr Wardrobe , who have make the room where it happen musically . I commend all music teacher . I remember when I be at school , our music teacher decide that the boy ' choir should sing a song from a musical . unfortunately , it include the line , " I don ' t know how to love he … and I ' ve love so many man before " and he suddenly decide that we would not be singe it anymore — so music teacher do not always get it right , but sometimes they be courageous . it be really important we ensure that this be about not just London , but the whole UK . that be one reason that it be important that we get the per diem issue sort . songwriter from across the UK sometimes do have to travel into London for song camp , write camp or whatever , and make sure they get their expense plus a per diem be a really important part of ensure that this do not just apply to some people in our city . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I really welcome the statement , which provide more support for grassroots music creator . it be also important that grassroots music creator have the grassroots music venue to play in , include the fantastic Acoustic Couch in Bracknell . will Minister update the House on the Department ' s plan for support grassroots music venue across the country ? yes , and I commend Acoustic Couch . I have not visit , but I be sure an invitation will be on its way very soon . we want to preserve as many of our small music venue as we possibly can . that be why we be push as hard as possible the idea of a £ 1 levy on arena ticket . I be delighted that the Royal Albert Hall announce yesterday that it will be first venue across the UK to implement that . I have push Live nation to step up on this and it say , " yes , yes , yes , " but it feel a bit like , " maybe , maybe , maybe " , so I be still say , " Quando , quando , quando " . I welcome this industry - lead approach — that be the right thing to do — but we also need to bear in mind the artist who need remuneration at the end of it . they be not do it for the money , but they do deserve to be pay . what plan do Ministers have for the independent monitoring of the implementation ? I ask that so the Minister do not himself have to retain an eye of the tiger at all time . oh dear , the hon . Gentleman be bad than I . [ interruption . ] oh yes he be — and it ' s not even panto season yet ! [ interruption . ] he have a very moderate tie , though . it be important that we have proper evaluation . we be in the process of work out precisely how we will do that . I have say to the group that we will convene in a year ' s time . by then , we will have evaluate fully whether this have really work . I be honestly very confident that it will deliver the good . the hon . Gentleman say that artist be not necessarily do it for the money . I go to see Alison Moyet at Kew Gardens a couple of week ago . she be absolutely magnificent . at the beginning of she set , she say , " I ' m not necessarily go to play what everybody want I to play , because this isn ' t karaoke . I ' m an artist and a musician , not just a celebrity . " that balance be really important for lot of artist and musician . they need to earn a living , but they be also artist who have their own condition and they need to be able to pursue what lie in their heart . I start by — [ interruption . ] oh , that be a bright tie , Minister . I start by echo early comment thank the former Member for Cardiff West , the union and the Ivors Academy for their important campaigning on this issue , and I congratulate the Minister for get this important deal over the line . the music industry have long suffer with issue of transparency , and I have no doubt that the Minister will want to ensure that these announcement make a real - world difference . will he therefore tell we a little more about the independent scrutiny that will be in place to ensure that these new measure be implement , and will he say whether there be a means of audit what benefit music maker will see from these change ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we need to ensure that the new measure be implement . as I say , I do not want to undermine confidence in that , because I do not want to give anybody a get - out clause for not implement they . we will be work over the next few week with both the BPI and the Association of Independent Music on put together a proper evaluation process over the next year , and I hope I will be make a statement in a year ' s time — although obviously that will not be up to I — on precisely how it have work out . as I say early , I reckon this be worth several ten of million of pound of extra investment in the british music industry , and I think we will see that it have deliver . just return to the issue of my tie , Madam Deputy Speaker : it be a day of the dead tie by Van Buck . the Minister do very well to shake off the abuse about his tie from the Swiftie on the Opposition Benches — it be mainly empty space there — the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . his reputation remain unscathed . Calder Valley have a thriving creative sector with lot of small and independent artist who have lose out to streaming . today ' s announcement be welcome , of course , but small artist face the twin threat of both AI and streaming . will the Minister assure I and the House that he will do more to ensure that those small artist can get the money in their pocket , where it belong ? the point I make about the remuneration of musician , and all form of artist , apply equally to streaming and to AI . the Secretaries of State for Culture , Media and Sport and for Science , Innovation and Technology hold their first meeting last week with the creative industry and AI company to discuss how we proceed on the issue of AI and copyright . there be a broadly outlined set of principle , one of which be undoubtedly that those who make the original work must be remunerate when it be use to create some other form of work and some other form of value . I agree with my hon . friend on his point about empty space on the Opposition Benches — empty chair at empty table . today ' s news be great , especially for the artist and musician in my constituency who regularly play at the Bootleg , a fantastic venue that we must ensure stay open for future generation to enjoy as my dad and I have enjoy it . what plan be in place to engage with artist , representative and the trade union to ensure that today ' s welcome change deliver meaningful improvement for artist at all stage of their career ? it be good to see my hon . friend in his place . I gather that the pier be for sale — indicate assent . I be not sure whether he be intend to buy it himself . of course , many act have appear on the pier over the year . my hon . friend make the point again about the importance of have small venue where people can perform to start and build their career and end up as the kind of household success that we know . not everybody will earn million from music , but we do want many more people to be able to make a decent live out of their music in the UK . establish good term of trade and have a strong copyright regime be absolutely key to deliver that . the Musicians ' Union be a key part of the discussion that we hold throughout the last year . for the final question , I call Chris Vince . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be some mention of national treasure early ; to quote Alison Moyet , " only you " . [ laughter . ] I win ' t be call last next time . from the Newtown Neurotics to Don ' t Worry and the Subways , Harlow have always have a vibrant music scene . what plan do the Minister have to engage with artist at all stage of their career to ensure that these welcome change provide meaningful improvement ? well , I be " all cry out " that I be not on my hon . friend ' s list of national treasure . he make a very important point . we need to ensure that these change apply across the whole of the United Kingdom . in her performance at Kew , Alison Moyet also make the point that every child be a musician and an artist until they be persuade not to be at some point in their life . this be what I really want to embrace in everything that the Government do in this area , in relation to the creative industry ; we talk about film and the big , famous success that we have in the UK , but actually , a lot of it be about real hard graft by people who have have to learn how to perform well , what it be to be in front of an audience , how it be to market their performance and all the rest of it . it be tough , tough , tough . half the time , all those musician be say to the record label be , " you pay my rent . " point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder if I could seek your guidance . it have now be 36 day since the Home Secretary come to the Dispatch Box to give a statement on the possibility of a national inquiry into the grooming gang ; indeed , it have be seven month since the Home Secretary , back in January , indicate at the Dispatch Box that there would be five local rape gang inquiry . this be cause a huge amount of concern for many victim and survivor of this heinous crime . yet here we be on the last day before recess without an update from the Home Secretary at the Dispatch Box on the timing , who the independent chair will be , the funding arrangement , and , dare I say , whether Keighley and the Bradford district will be include . I seek your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker : under Standing Orders , be there any mechanism for you to ensure that the Home Secretary come to the Dispatch Box before the end of the day to provide an update on the national inquiry into groom gang ? I thank the hon . member for notice of his point of order . I have to say that I have receive no notice from Ministers that they intend to make a further statement on this matter , but Ministers on the Front Bench will have hear his point of order . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at the start of this month , I submit a number of parliamentary question to the Department of Health and Social Care on the subject of the independent commission into adult social care . a number of those question , despite be due for answer on the 7th of this month , remain entirely unanswered as of today , the 22nd of this month . the Department have also decline to estimate the number of hour spend on the commission by the Department since July 2024 on the ground that the cost of such an estimation would be too great . I ask your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , about how I can get those question answer for the benefit of my constituent , and so that I can fulfil my duty in hold the Government to account . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . the timeliness and adequacy of answer to write question be not matter for the Chair , but all hon . member be entitle to expect full and helpful answer on time . she might like to raise the matter with the Procedure Committee , who I know take a close interest in these matter . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will know that long ago — indeed , before we be bear — ten of thousand of young man be send to a far off place to witness the first british nuclear test . ever since , some of we have be campaign for their interest . early this year , the Government announce that there will be a review into the blood and urine test take at the time of those test ; you will appreciate the significance of that , Madam Deputy Speaker , because of the risk of radiation poisoning . the Government have say that the review will be publish , but we have no clarity as to when . there be ten of thousand of these record , which be be examine as we speak . have you have any notice from Ministers on when they will come to the House with an interim report ? these man be now elderly ; they be die , of course , because of their age , by the week and month . however , I , along with the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) and the descendant of these man , will not give up this fight . it be vitally important that the Government be clear about when those test will be publish — I wonder if you could help in that regard , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the right hon . member for notice of his point of order . I have receive no notice from Ministers that they intend to make a statement on this matter . he have , however , place his point on the record . bill present Unpaid Carers ( Respite and Support ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Alison Bennett , support by Ed Davey , Helen Morgan , Dr Danny Chambers , Jess Brown - Fuller , Wendy Chamberlain , Steve Darling , Vikki Slade , Olly Glover , Gideon Amos , Bobby Dean and Cameron Thomas , present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to ensure that unpaid carer be offer respite break ; to make provision for and about such respite break ; to require the Secretary of State to publish guidance relate to respite break , include guidance about funding ; to make provision about support for unpaid carer ; include support follow the discharge of a care - for person from a hospital or other medical setting ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 292 ) . Waste Tyres Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Tessa Munt , support by Mr Alistair Carmichael , present a Bill to abolish the t8 exemption from environmental permit requirement regard disposal of end - of - life tyre ; to make provision about include end - of - life tyre as a category of notifiable waste ; to make provision about the processing , recovery , and export of end - of - life tyre ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 5 September , and to be print ( Bill 293 ) . Crown Immunity ( Prisons ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision to remove Crown immunity as it apply to prison for the purpose of health and safety legislation . Katie Allen live in Clarkston in East Renfrewshire . she have a love family and a very happy childhood . she be bright and do well at school . she take herself off to Malawi to volunteer , and she return from Africa determine to help people . instead of study geology at university , as she have intend , she switch to study human geography , because she decide and realise that it be people whom she care about and not rock . she be excited about the future . she have move into her own flat . she be full of life . she be beautiful and she be love . she be find hang in a cell at 5 . 50 in the morning on 4 June 2018 at his Majesty ' s Prison and Young Offender Institution , Polmont . the problem of prison death be UK - wide , but these loss be a particular problem in Scotland , and the loss of young people in prison be feel especially . research in April by the Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research find that our prison death rate be akin to those in Azerbaijan . an early study by the Council of Europe find Scotland ' s prison suicide rate be more than two - and - a half - time high than the average and about double that of England and Wales . I begin with Katie ' s story because focus on her case help make sense of why this problem be so alarming , so acute , and so avoidable . in 2017 , after a night out , Katie drive home after drink , clip the kerb , and lose control of her car . she have not realise it , but she have hit and injure a pedestrian . she have no previous conviction . her victim ask for she not to be give a custodial sentence , but she be jail for 16 month anyway . if anyone deserve a second chance after a stupid , youthful mistake , it be Katie . that second chance be take away because of failing by the Scottish Prison Service . we can not mention Katie without also mention William Brown , whom my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) represent . William also die from suicide in Polmont . the fatal accident inquiry into the loss of both those precious young people find their death to be preventable . thank to the sheriff ' s finding , the failing of the prison service in these case be now well document , detailed and damning . one thing out of the 400 - page report , with its many finding and recommendation , especially stick in my mind . when we look into prison suicide , we learn an awful new vocabulary . we come across term such as " ligature anchor " . for William , the ligature anchor be a bunk bed that the inquiry find could have be remove and , bad , have be use previously for suicide in the prison . in the case of Katie , the ligature anchor be a simple doorstop high up on the wall of her cell . a doorstop that would have cost a few pound to replace — a small cost for save a young life , but it be not believe to be worth it . year after both death , nobody in the prison or the prison service have think to remove the doorstop , or to replace they with safe , slope alternative . the bunk bed have not be remove . the fatal accident inquiry into the death find that internal review carry out after both death have not even mention the possibility of remove fixture in cell that could have be use again for further suicide . for I , nothing signify the institutional lack of care more than these failing for which somebody , somewhere should have be hold legally responsible . before a fatal accident inquiry , there be an investigation . the police and the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service conclude at first that there be insufficient evidence to prosecute . the family of Katie and William challenge that conclusion , and eventually the authority say that , yes , there be enough evidence to charge the Scottish Prison Service with breach of the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 . however , there be no prosecution . why ? because of Crown immunity . the Health and Safety at Work etc . act place duty on state - run prison , but Crown immunity mean that they can not be prosecute for breach those duty . if the two people have die in a privately run prison , there would have be a prosecution . in theory , individual prison officer can be prosecute , but in practice they rarely be when their employer be not also prosecute . indeed , the reason those prosecution do not happen be that it be argue that individual shortcoming happen in the context of systematic failure . in theory , the prison service can also be prosecute under corporate manslaughter legislation , but in practice they be not because the systematic failing be often judge to take place at the prison level , rather than at the senior management level of the overall service . those at the bottom pass legal responsibility upwards ; those at the top pass it back . even with the support of the dog campaigner at the charity Inquest , which focus on state - relate death , nobody be find legally responsible . the good that the family of the lose can hope for in such circumstance be a censure by the Health and Safety Executive , but even that toothless sanction be almost never use — in a decade , only one prison have receive a censure . we have be here before . three decade ago , Crown immunity be remove from the NHS and it have have an impact . to take one grimly comparable case , the Essex partnership university NHS foundation trust be fine £ 1 . 5 million for allow suicide after fail to manage the risk cause by ligature point on its estate . our prison be responsible for many more such death , but they be untouchable because of Crown immunity , and an untouchable service remain unaccountable . institutional impunity remove the incentive for institutional change — institutional change that be need at the local scottish level and the UK level . locally , a review of mental health at Polmont warn that it need a suicide prevention strategy , but instead it opt for another review — a review that be never finish . in Scotland , the Human Rights Commission have warn that recommendation agree decade ago have still not be implement across the Scottish Prison Service . just last week , the inspector of prison for the whole UK issue an urgent indication warn about condition at Pentonville and a failure to address repeat concern follow recent suicide . without legal consequence , prison across the country appear to be incapable of learn lesson or make change . every day of immunity bring the risk of more avoidable death . the Scottish Prison Service and the Government in Edinburgh have call for Crown immunity to be remove , but they need we in this place to do it . I want to be very clear : this campaign should not be use as an excuse for inaction now . these place should not have to wait to be prosecute to fulfil their responsibility to protect life , but if those run our prison will not act — and they have not do so — they should lose their protection from legal consequence . in conclusion , I remember a friend of mine who lose a child say how a parent grieve twice for such a loss : once for the young person know and love , and a second time for the life that they would have go on to live . for Katie ' s family , the knowledge that she want to live a life devote to help and serve other invite they to imagine all the change that she would have make as she grow into adulthood . instead of a life that would have change the world , we in this place be leave with the tragic responsibility of make sure that it be her death that change thing . Katie ' s extraordinary mother , Linda , tell I that she say of her experience in Malawi in Africa : " you know mum , prayer be great , but what people really need be practical help . " Katie ' s family , William ' s family and the other who have lose dear love one due to these institutional failing do not need our prayer , our sympathy or our condolence . they need action . they need we to provide the accountability that will avoid future tragedy and change the culture that allow these death . that be why it be time to end Crown immunity in prison in Scotland and across the UK . I urge member to support my Bill . question put and agree to . order , that Blair McDougall and Martin Rhodes present the Bill . Blair McDougall accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 294 ) . Backbench Business Sir David Amess Summer Adjournment I beg to move , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . I should say , for the benefit of new member , that this be quite rightly call the Sir David Amess debate , because this be his debate . I remember a poor Minister have to respond to he after a five - minute time limit have be put on speech but he have still manage to raise 27 topic . it be his absolute dream to have this debate , and somewhere he will be look on and observe what we all have to say . may he rest in peace . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] we seem to be over halfway through 2025 , yet it seem like only yesterday that we come back from the Christmas break . in true british style , the weather can not decide whether we should have Saharan sunshine or tropical rainfall — all of which make the tube journey into this place even more of a challenge . it have be a busy few month for Parliament and across my constituency . I have be do my job host resident ’ tour and event , speak in the Chamber , visit school and local business , pilot a presentation Bill and chair the Backbench Business Committee and the 1922 committee — and finally , after 17 year , Tottenham Hotspur have win a trophy . I be pleased that Backbench Business debate have become very popular with member , and it be encouraging that so many have make application to the Committee . I would like to place on record my thank to the Committee and the Clerks for all the hard work they have do over these past few month . we now have a waiting list , and if anyone apply for a debate in the Chamber , I be afraid they will have to wait until 2026 before one will be grant , because we have such a long waiting list . I thank the Leader of the House for meet I on occasion to discuss the work that the Committee do and to ensure that Back Benchers have the opportunity to raise their own topic . in the true tradition of these Adjournment debate , I will raise the subject of make Stanmore station step - free . we seem to actually be make some progress , because Queensbury and Canons Park tube station on the Jubilee line be now on the shortlist to get lift . that be great news for my resident and cause for some celebration . however , Stanmore station be still not on the list . commuter there face the choice of climb 48 step to the main entrance hall , 16 step via the car park or 24 step at the side to the bus stop , or take the current so - call step - free route , which be 140 metre long and have a steep ramp that even the great Paralympian Tanni Grey - Thompson could not go up unaided . transport for London and the mayor consider Stanmore station to be step - free and will not consider any further work , but I have discover through a 2017 freedom of information request that there be no legal definition of a step - free station . it be up to each individual train operate company — in this case TfL — to determine what it mean . take in conjunction with the Transport Committee ' s excellent report on accessibility issue face by disabled people in the transport sector , I be now explore how we can get TfL or the Government to take action . if we can get a proper definition of " step - free " agree , we can apply pressure on TfL to de - list Stanmore station as step - free so that it meet the requirement to be consider for a new lift or travelator . the world have never be so dangerous , and that be particularly true of London . the news that police station front desk will be close not just in Harrow but across London be incredibly worrying . this come at a time when knife and street crime be at an all - time high in the capital , with total crime increase by 5 . 6 % this year alone . additionally , there have be a 30 % increase in gun crime , a 10 % increase in robbery and a whopping 82 . 5 % increase in business robbery . the timing of the decision to cut police station ' resource be another example of the Mayor of London ' s impeccable timing . it be important to I and our resident that the desk remain open , because they provide a vital service , allow victim to report crime in person and to seek safety . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not , because many member want to get in . the justification for these " tough choice " be the need to address a £ 260 million funding gap , yet this be not the right area in which to be cut vital support . for year , Sadiq Khan have tell we how much well London would be with a Labour mayor and a Labour Government , but we now have a labour mayor and a Labour Government , and London be no well as a result . I have create a petition call on the mayor to keep Harrow police station fully function , and I urge everyone in my constituency to visit my website and add their name to this important cause . tomorrow , Barnet ' s strategic planning committee will decide whether to approve the Broadwalk redevelopment , which be a proposal for 3 , 828 housing unit across 25 tower , most of which be above 20 storey high , with the high reach 29 storey . it would demolish Edgware ' s exist bus station , bus garage and car park , with no guarantee replacement . I reject this development in its entirety until a safe , deliverable transport plan can be guarantee . the plan currently depend on an underground electric bus garage that the London Fire Brigade have object to , call it a very serious safety risk with no exist regulation or precedent . TfL have claim that the alternative — the diesel fallback — be not viable , be uncoste and be not support by an engineering plan . if the scheme be approve , Edgware could lose its core transport infrastructure permanently . I have create a petition against these plan , which can also be access on my website , and I urge everyone to sign it . we be all very conscious of the escalate situation in the middle east , and my prayer be with all those who have be impact . the event that have unfold in the middle east since 7 October 2023 have be unbearable to witness . Israel suffer the bad terror attack in its history at the hand of the Iran - back terrorist Hamas . innocent civilian be brutally murder and hundred be take hostage , include baby , child and the elderly . the hostage have be hold in appalling condition , and the account give by those release have be distress and harrowing . only last week , I welcome Keith and Aviva Siegel into Parliament to recount their horrific experience . as a direct consequence of Hamas ' action on 7 October and their use of civilian infrastructure to undertake terrorist operation , palestinian civilian face a devastating humanitarian crisis in Gaza . my thought be with the family of those still hold hostage and every innocent life lose or impact by the conflict . I firmly support Israel ' s right to defend itself against security threat , but we must also ensure that the civilian population of Gaza be protect . it be welcome news that the US have facilitate a ceasefire between Iran and Israel , which must be uphold to secure regional security . the Government and the Foreign Office must clarify their role in relation to that ceasefire . Iran must never be allow to obtain nuclear weapon , as it be a prolific state sponsor of terrorism with a state intention of annihilate the world ' s only jewish state . my colleague and I be clear that the recent action take by the United States alongside Israel to degrade Iran ' s nuclear weapon programme and military capability be indeed necessary . I be concerned that the UK have not give a strong voice on that outcome . the UK face an increasingly complex and concern landscape of malign foreign influence . iranian influence in particular have be persistent and insidious in try to harm our civic institution and challenge our democratic resilience . one of its shocking tactic be exploitation of our charity sector , with such charity have become the nerve centre of the Islamic Republic of Iran on british soil , advance a foreign policy root in regional destabilisation and ideological extremism . it be reveal by United Against Nuclear Iran — publish in the Times — that Labaik Ya Zahra , a UK - register charity base in my constituency , go to Iran , meet senior commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and sign an agreement with the propaganda arm of the high military authority of Iran ' s regime , the head of which be sanction in the UK , pledge to spread the ideal of jihad , martyrdom and resistance in the UK . that be in clear violation of the Government ' s foreign influence registration scheme and the National Security Act 2023 , as well as violate british sanction , yet the charity remain open today . hostile state be increasingly test the resilience of our democracy . in the light of the recent Intelligence and Security Committee report detail the irgc ' s direct involvement in such threat , include plot on UK soil and direct interference in the UK public sector , more than 100 parliamentarian have sign a letter co - lead by I and the hon . member for Bristol North East ( Damien Egan ) to be send to the Prime Minister today urge the Government finally to proscribe the irgc in its entirety . it state that should the Government decide not to take that essential step , they must urgently and immediately put forward for adoption alternative legislative measure as recommend by the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation Jonathan Hall KC to address the grow danger pose by state - back threat . it be disappointing that the Tobacco and Vapes Bill have stall somewhat in the other place , with no set date for its Committee . there be a risk that because the smoke - free generation policy in the Bill have an implementation date in 2027 , the Bill be not see as urgent . that be not the case . while we delay , tobacco company be market heated tobacco product in supermarket , and child be expose to they . the marketing be work , and child ' s awareness of such product be at an all - time high , with 24 % of 11 to 17 - year - old know what heated tobacco be , up from 7 . 1 % just three year ago . will the Minister confirm that the Bill be a priority for the Government and that its Committee will begin before the conference recess in the autumn ? the same be true for nicotine pouch . I be sure that many hon . member will have see when travel into London on the tube brightly colour advert for these product . child be see they , too , with a record 43 % level of awareness among young people . there be currently no age - of - sale limit for those product , so a nine - year - old could legally purchase they . will the Government put a stop to that madness and urgently schedule a date for peer to begin scrutinise the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , which be overwhelmingly pass by this House ? this year alone , I have visit 12 school , and I know that many colleague will have visit school in their constituency . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to breakfast club for primary schoolchildren , but every primary school in my constituency be unable to provide the space for a breakfast club to take place , so even though they want to implement they , they can not . I be glad to meet the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , recently to discuss far how we can achieve that . I be pleased that the consultation have finally close on the regulation for my Supported Housing ( Regulatory Oversight ) Act 2023 . I hope that that can be spur on to the next stage so that we finally see those measure enact , prevent the countless rogue landlord operate in the sector from exploit vulnerable tenant . it be my understanding that the Deputy Prime Minister be currently in breach of the law , give that she be due to create a support housing advisory panel by August 2024 . we be yet to see that in action , and she could — literally — implement it tomorrow . the situation in Bangladesh be really concern . with the coup that take place and the new regime , we have see attack on minority in Bangladesh increase . I have raise this in the House several time , yet our Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office do not seem to take proper action to call that out for what it be , which be an attack on minority . similarly , we have the horrific terrorist attack in Pahalgam and India ' s subsequent counter - terrorism action , Operation Sindoor . I remain deeply appalled and sadden by the barbaric attack on the innocent tourist , which claim the life of 26 people , include woman and child , Hindus , Christians and a nepali national . my thought be with the victim and their loved one , and I continue to stand in solidarity with they and the people of India . on the response to that , it be good that there be currently a pause and a truce between India and Pakistan ; however , that truce be very fragile and there could be a return to war . as someone who have stand with the Kashmiri Pandits and their right to return to the Kashmir valley , and with India ' s sovereign right to defend its people and territory , I think it be outrageous that such terrorism , sponsor by Pakistan , continue in Jammu and Kashmir . it be therefore right that we stand in solidarity with India . last week , we hear that the Home Office would finally be un - pausing claim relate to syrian national , which I be sure we all welcome . I bring that up because my office have several case that pertain to syrian national in limbo with the Home Office , await update and decision , one of which be first bring to my attention nearly two year ago . clearly , the Government ' s Home Office policy change have create confusion and delay . may we therefore have an update on when syrian national can expect to have their case process so that we can close some of they for the benefit of the individual ? while we be on the topic of the Home Office , once again I pay tribute to the wonderful caseworker at the Home Office MP account management team , who have be fantastic in deal with the many case that my office send through . it be say that a week in politic be a long time . well , the last three year have be transformational in Conservative - run Harrow . we take over the council when it be just 18 month from declare bankruptcy , with dwindle reserve and corruption in the highway department — a matter that I have raise in the House before . yet now , it could hardly be think to be the same organisation . everyone ask about the state of road , pavement and pothole . when we take over the council , we face allegation of corruption and kickback scheme , but now the administration have commit £ 14 million a year for the next three year to invest in our age infrastructure . furthermore , Harrow be the first London borough to use new machinery such as the JCB PotholePro , otherwise know as Pothole Pete , which can repair pothole in as little as a few minute . it have be revolutionary , and even though there be more to be do , and many more road to be repair , thing be head in the right direction . fly - tipping be down 33 % , culprit be be fine £ 1 , 000 each and the council have launch a wall of shame to deter people and catch culprit . bin collection rate be head in the right direction , with few miss collection , and for the first time in a generation Harrow have expand the number of green flag park , add to the list Chandos recreation ground in Edgware in my constituency and Hatch end riverside park in the neighbouring constituency . we also begin one - hour free parking , the most generous free parking offer in all London borough , which have be use million of time by resident to support our local business and high street . even though there be a lot more to do , it be clear that Harrow be head in the right direction as the Conservatives put resident first . I hope that they be return at the local election next year to carry on that good work for another four year . we will all shortly go on our summer recess and member and staff will take a well - deserve break , but at the beginning of August , I will be host my annual work experience programme . I will welcome to my constituency 25 work experience student a week for two week and I will teach they what it be like to be an MP and how they can get involve in politic . over the last 15 year , I have welcome thousand of young people into the programme , with many go on to work in my office or elsewhere on the parliamentary estate . it be a great way to engage with constituent and the young generation and to inspire they to get involve and learn about the parliamentary process . I shall conclude my remark by wish everyone a lovely summer recess and a well - deserve break . I hope everyone can get some rest and recuperation with their family , enjoy good food and good company with their love one . I also wish all the staff of the House a chance to get a break from all of we . I be sure we can all say amen to that . there be 34 member seek to intervene in this debate , and we need to go on to the wind - up at about 6 . 30 . work it out for yourself : that be about five minute a head . I be not go to put a time limit on at this stage , but it may mean that some people drop off the end if colleague be over - zealous with their time . I recognise that it be a privilege to speak high up the list in this important Sir David Amess debate . just over a year ago , we welcome not only a new Labour Government but the creation of the new Blaydon and Consett constituency . it be fair to say that there be some bemusement locally about our new boundary . the new constituency span town and village in both Gateshead and County Durham , all with strong identity of their own , but we have plenty in common , from the keelman on the Tyne to the steelworker of Consett , and not forget the vital role play by our woman in our history or our strong mining history . we have a really powerful industrial past and a strong community spirit . my constituent be passionate about fairness and access to opportunity , and they know the real division be not Gateshead or Durham , but whether you be black and white or red and white . I have have many highlight over the year serve my wonderful constituency , but top of that list have to be secure wave 1 funding for the new hospital in Consett to replace Shotley Bridge . after year of broken promise from the last government , we be now expect construction to begin by 2026 - 27 . I want to say a massive thank you to Kevin Earley and the Shotley Bridge hospital support group , and to everyone in the local community for their effort . that work continue , and we welcome the Health Secretary to Consett early this year to discuss progress . I be grateful to the support group and the trust for work with I to ensure that we get everything in the right place to deliver for people in Consett . there be currently concern about the out - of - hour urgent treatment service in Shotley Bridge . this be an issue I have be raise and I would encourage my constituent to submit to the ongoing consultation , as I will be . this year , the Government make transformational change to employment right , strengthen sick pay and move towards fair pay agreement in adult social care . in April , the real - term increase in the minimum wage mean that one in seven worker in the north - east see a boost to their pay packet . this be what a Labour Government mean to my constituent . we have have more constituency win this year . moorside primary become an early adopter of our free breakfast club programme , Shotley Bridge school receive funding for its nursery , and we have have investment for the Oakfields GP practice in Hamsterley Colliery . I welcome Government funding to restore the Tyne bridge , a vital part of our regional infrastructure . finally , we have also have the launch of the Gateshead safe haven , lead by Gateshead citizen advice bureau and North East Counselling , to support people in mental health crisis , and 58 , 000 child across Gateshead and Durham will now benefit from a mental health support team in their school — an issue particularly close to my heart . none of this would be possible without the work of local people on the ground , so I thank all of they for everything that they do . if there be one issue that remain high on the agenda for my constituent , it be bus service . after year of deregulation and slash route , resident feel unable to rely on our bus . that need to change . I be proud that this government ' s Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill will hand back control to our community , and I look forward to work with our Mayor , Kim McGuinness , to ensure that that be the case . this year , I have talk to staff at Consett Empire about how we can keep the theatre thriving . I have hear the concern of staff at Villa Real school about the state of their building , which desperately need improve . I will continue to raise those issue go forward . road safety and speed limit be another major issue for my constituent , and I look forward to work with Ministers on the road safety strategy to resolve those concern . I be proud to join the Rowlands family from Consett at a ministerial meeting . they speak eloquently about their son Andrew , who lose his life in an accident involve an uninsured under - age driver . I pay tribute to all the family in my constituency campaign for change after go through difficult time . another shout - out must go to Terry Archbold and his daughter Bea from Burnopfield , who have be raise awareness of organ donation follow Bea ' s lifesave heart transplant . it be an honour to have a front - row seat for the fantastic work happen across all our community in our school , NHS , shop , library , care home and leisure centre . this year , I have tap my foot to the fantastic Ryton Singers and Winlaton ' s Northern Phoenix brass band , and admire photography by Ryton camera club and Consett in Focus . I have meet local environment pioneer at the Crawcrook repair caf é , the Chopwell regeneration shop , Blackhill Park ' s community garden and the Greenside community orchard . that be not forget our small business , include those who meet the Minister when he visit Consett last year . thank to all who show he what our patch have to offer and speak about their experience . I be always inspire by young people in our constituency . this year , we have have visit to Parliament from St Joseph ' s in Blaydon , St Mary ' s in Blackhill , and Derwentside college , and I hope that more school will have this opportunity in future . I thank Parkhead , St Thomas More and St Patrick ' s in Dipton for open their door to I , as well as High Spen and Ryton primary school for their fantastic local mural and artwork . I get a good grilling from student at Consett academy , and the pupil ' Parliament in Shotley Bridge show I how democracy be do — Westminster will be in good hand if we put the child of Blaydon and Consett in charge . I thank all the school staff for their hard work . I be pleased to meet headteacher from across our constituency to hear about the issue they face , and they have provide I with insight that I will feed back to Government . I pay tribute to the fantastic volunteer support our community . there be too many to name , but I want to give a quick shout - out to Moorside baby bank , Newcastle United Foundation ' s walk football in Blaydon , Consett Survivors of Bereavement by Suicide , Derwent Valley car club and Ryton ' s Men ' s Shed . I can only hope that I can match their passion and commitment for our community . finally , I want to thank my constituency team . since the election , we have open a second office in Consett , and they have process over 8 , 000 case . I thank the Doorkeepers and House staff for everything they do to keep Parliament run . I thank my constituent , new and old , who make Blaydon and Consett a fantastic place to be . it be an honour to represent this constituency , and I will continue work every day to ensure that our people have the opportunity they deserve . I rise to talk about Lord Anderson ' s report on Prevent and the death of our wonderful fall colleague and my dear friend , Sir David Amess , which be publish last week . it be obviously appropriate to make this speech today , in the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate , which be rightly name in his honour . however , it be sad that this speech aim to draw attention to the way in which he and his family have be and be be let down by the Home Secretary and this Government . the House be well aware that the Sir David Amess family would like a full statutory public inquiry into the death of their beloved father and husband . last March , they meet the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary at 10 Downing Street . they be support by their former MP Anna Firth , lead London lawyer , and public affair expert Radd Seiger , all of whom continue to support and help the family on a voluntary basis . at that meeting , the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister ask the family to go away and work with Lord Anderson , to see if he could answer the dozen of question they still have about why the killer slip through the state ' s safeguard net . against their well judgement , the family do just that . they meet Lord Anderson , along with their adviser and Anna Firth , in his chamber in the Middle Temple . they provide Lord Anderson with all the question that they still need answer , and they wait patiently for his report , endure several more month of stress and anxiety . both the Home Secretary and Lord Anderson specifically promise the family that they would see the report first , and in good time , so that they have time to read and digest it , and take advice , before be subject to the glare of the medium . you can only imagine , Mr Deputy Speaker , how deeply distress the whole medium circus be for the family . unbelievably , yet again , that do not happen . the family first learn that the report be imminent from an article in the Guardian , and when they receive a text from a journalist say that the report be due to be publish soon . clearly , rather than keep their word to the Amess family , the Government choose quite deliberately to leak the report to the press first . that be an absolute disgrace . the Amess family should have see the report first , not last . that be a simply unacceptable way to treat any grieve family , let alone that of a distinguished parliamentarian . once again , the Amess family be bombard by the medium , cause they great pain . all the medium want , of course , be their individual soundbite , before the family have any opportunity to even read the 170 - page report . the Home Secretary should feel thoroughly ashamed . I hope that the Minister will take this opportunity to apologise to Lady Amess and her family for this late insult . the Government really need to do far , far , well on how they treat the victim of heinous crime . critically , however , there be now no doubt whatsoever , follow Lord Anderson ' s work , that there must be a full public inquiry on why the string of failure that lead to Sir David ' s murder be allow to happen , and on who be responsible , who will be hold to account , and what will be do to ensure that there be no repeat . the Amess family have be tell repeatedly by the Home Secretary and successive Ministers that lesson have be and would be learn by Prevent , include the lesson set out in the Prevent learning review , which take place shortly after Sir David ' s death and be publish early this year . heartbreakingly , Southport happen three year later . the two case be virtually identical . in both , the killer be well known to the authority and to the Prevent programme , yet be allow to slip through the safeguarding net . it seem , therefore , that lesson have not be learn . the Amess family feel that both the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister be pay lip service to their agonising search for real answer when they finally meet they at no . 10 in March . the family be assure by both the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary that they take the family ' s concern extremely seriously , that they too feel the loss of Sir David acutely , and that they would leave no stone unturned to help the family find the answer that they need . I will finish with the word of Katie Amess herself — before my right hon . friend finish , will he give way very briefly ? order . no . all right . sorry . I will end with the word of Katie Amess herself — Sir David be my good friend , Mr Deputy Speaker . he be . order . I think the Father of the House be reach his peroration . I be fully aware of the friendship between the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) and Sir David , but he will have the opportunity to make his case shortly . in the word of Katie Amess herself , " despite Lord Anderson ' s review , the vast majority of our question about Prevent ' s failure remain unanswered . we still do not know why basic check like social medium monitoring or verify school attendance be not carry out before the perpetrator be release from the programme . he be mean to have seven session . he have one , over a cup of coffee at McDonald ' s , and be then release . that be simply not good enough , yet Anderson skate over it , ignore the catastrophic consequence that follow for my family , and our country . critical record , include minute from panel meeting and vulnerability assessment , have either be withhold or be incomplete . that do not help any of we . transparency be essential , yet we continue to face obstacle in access these document . other than the killer himself , there have be no accountability for my family . the review reveal alarming gap in the handling of the killer after he be refer . unsubstantiated claim be make about his suppose progress , yet no one have be hold to account . this isn ' t about process , it ' s about people ' s life and our right to see that those who let my dad down be hold fully responsible . key individual involve in the case be not interview , and the Coroner refuse to engage with Lord Anderson , have already refuse we an inquest . a full statutory inquiry would compel all those involve to give evidence under oath about the failing . my dad give his all to this country , and yet he , and we , be be deny the most basic of human right . it feel like they be try to hide something , to shut this tragedy down . a statutory public inquiry be the only way to compel witness to testify and document to be disclose … on behalf of my family , I now call on the current Home Secretary and Prime Minister to do the right thing and to order the inquiry , just as they rightly do for Southport . they tell my mother and I and Anna Firth that we could come back to no 10 if we be not happy with Lord Anderson ' s review . well , we most certainly be not happy with it , and I will be ask my team to write to they to request that further meeting they promise we . a public inquiry would honour my father ' s legacy by ensure real accountability and prevent future tragedy . lastly , my father dedicate his life to public service . the very least he deserve be a thorough investigation into how his murder could have be prevent . we owe it to he and to every potential future victim to get this right . we have have review after review since my father die . we now call for a public inquiry . " let right be do . it would be remiss of I not to pay tribute to that exceptional and powerful speech from the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) ; I be sure those in authority will have listen carefully to his remark . I will be very brief . I want to pay tribute to Sir David Amess . an issue dear to his heart that he speak about frequently be hepatitis patient , and that be what I want to speak about . I hope the House will agree that it be a timely and appropriate occasion , because next Monday , 28 July , be World Hepatitis Day . Sir David Amess be a most powerful advocate for hepatitis patient , and a member of the all - party parliamentary group on liver health . if it be not presumptuous , may I draw member ' attention to early - day motion 1699 , which I have table ? I would like to say a few thing about this condition . Hepatitis C be a blood - bear virus that disproportionately affect disadvantaged and marginalise community . it be preventable , treatable and curable . indeed , the United Kingdom have already commit to achieve the World Health Organisation ' s goal of eliminate hepatitis C as a public health concern by 2030 . that would have a huge impact on health inequality . it would be encouraging if the UK Government be to celebrate World Hepatitis Day on 28 July by reaffirm their commitment to meet the WHO 2030 target , and if that be reinforce by a comprehensive hepatitis elimination action plan . many people do not realise that they have hepatitis C , but if leave untreated , it can cause fatal cirrhosis , and even liver cancer . the effort of our nhs and harm reduction service have lead to considerable success in finding , engage , test and treat people who be at risk . the UK be within reach of meet the World Health Organisation ' s target of hepatitis C elimination by 2030 . that would be a tremendous public health achievement for a Government who be committed to address health inequality and public health issue , but to sustain the success that we have have so far , we must overcome stigma , avoid complacency and support effective effort and commitment to achieve positive public health outcome . I be delighted to have be call in the debate on the summer Adjournment , which I be very pleased be now traditionally know as the Sir David Amess debate , after our fall comrade and great friend Sir David . follow the brilliant speech by the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , all I would say be that this matter be very close to the heart of the Amess family . if it be not possible to have a separate public inquiry , which be what they desperately would like , perhaps , as my right hon . Friend allude to , the other alternative be to slightly amend the term of reference of the Southport inquiry so that the matter could be investigate via those mean . the additional cost would be miniscule , and the family could have their say . I merely repeat that request . perhaps the most pressing issue in Wickford in my constituency be the fate of the old dilapidated Co - op supermarket site . it be purchase several year ago by an overseas developer name Heriot , which singularly fail to find a new tenant . in fairness , it attempt to negotiate a deal with morrison , which fall through . it instead try to negotiate a deal with Asda , which fall through too . I be afraid that in the recent Wickford Park by - election , the Labour party claim in its literature that a deal with Asda have be " secure " , and it be thus try to take the credit . in fact , it turn out that that be simply untrue . I recently receive a letter from Mr Allan Leighton , the chief executive of Asda , which unfortunately confirm that after over a year of negotiation , it have reluctantly decide not to proceed with the redevelopment of the Wickford site . I have to say that that have not enhance Asda in my eye . nevertheless , back in February Heriot apply to Basildon borough council for planning permission for a new store , but the council repeatedly drag its foot and fail to determine the application to the point that , I understand , a developer could appeal to the Planning Inspectorate on the ground of non - determination . it be absolutely vital that that planning application be pass by Basildon borough council in the hope that Heriot can find an alternative tenant , such as Lidl or another supermarket group . have try for nearly four year to achieve that , if Heriot be not able to do so , perhaps the time have finally come for it to sell the site to an alternative developer with more experience , which might have more luck . either way , I can report to the House that my constituent be thoroughly feed up with the whole drama of the old Co - op supermarket , as be I . for the sake of all my constituent in Wickford , I hope that we can somehow bring this prolonged saga to a successful conclusion and provide they with a new supermarket fit for the 21st century . let I end my contribution with a few remark on so - call devolution and local government reform . this have be a torturous process in Essex , make more difficult by the fact that there be absolutely no public demand at all for the change . I can confidently report to the House that in 24 year as an Essex MP , I have never once have a constituent tell I on the doorstep that they want a mayor of Essex . none the less , Ministers recently write to Essex mps to confirm that they be go ahead with a mayor of Essex , loosely base on the Sadiq Khan model in London , with a related combined authority . that will result in mayoral election across the whole of Essex in spring next year . the Government ' s proposal would in effect replace the current two - tier system with another two - tier system . at present , we have Essex county council as the upper tier and a low tier of district , borough and city council . under the Government ' s plan , that would give way to an upper tier of an elect mayor and a combine authority , with a low tier of multiple unitary authority beneath . the third tier of town and parish council would remain unaffected . however , it be not yet clear whether the Labour Government still intend to press ahead with their plan to create several unitary authority in Essex — a matter that have lead to much consternation and considerable disagreement , not least among the potential constituent authority themselves . as of today , there be multiple different potential configuration . Essex county council seem to want three unitary authority . Rochford district council and some other council would prefer four . the Labour party appear to be agitate in favour of five . contrary to the position of its own party , Labour - lead Thurrock council have just announce that it would prefer four , the constituent local authority of which it be yet to reveal . indeed , at a meeting of council leader early this week , some Labour council leader be openly disagree with each other over all this . the whole process be rapidly descend into a total farce , and have follow this issue closely for many year , I have yet to hear a truly compelling case for why any of these new authority would genuinely be more efficient . as ever , we be promise efficiency saving in year 5 , but as a former Minister , I have to tell current Ministers from long experience that year 5 never come . to conclude , I say in all sincerity to Ministers that if they press ahead regardless and impose a solution via ministerial order with no consensus , it will still take a Parliament to implement . in the meantime , local government will almost grind to a halt , and many of the good officer will leave . it definitely will not save the money that have be promise , and therefore the game simply be not worth the candle . if I could offer Ministers in the Department some honest advice , it would be this : pull stump now while you can . if you must go ahead with the mayor , do that , but drop the unitary idea and let the local district , borough and city council get on with the job of represent their people , and let we have election for those council . child be 20 % of the population , but 100 % of our future . I see that every time I visit a school in Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend . we know that the first few year of a child ' s life be crucial , lay the foundation for their overall development . for that reason , I be delighted that Battle Hill primary school in Wallsend be in the initial cohort to benefit from the Government ' s expansion of school - base nursery . that school be in one of the most deprived area of the ward , and have always do a fantastic job of support family . it previously have a sure Start facility , and as someone who use to be a ward councillor and a governor , I be always proud to say that it care for child from birth to 11 year . I be excited to say that that be the aspiration once again . to remain on the topic of our young people , the north - east mayoral combine authority recently approve an £ 8 . 5 million investment for the expansion of the energy academy in my constituency . the offshore energy industry along the Tyne be a source of enormous pride . the Tyne be open for business , and the expansion of the energy academy only strengthen that case . that funding will be use to create a new energy campus , triple the number of student who will be able to enrol each year . the offshore renewable energy sector be set to create an additional 4 , 500 job in manufacturing and engineering along the river over the next decade . it be right that a young person grow up in any of the ward in my constituency should have the opportunity to compete for new green job . however , if company and local official be move the earth to ensure that the job and investment be there , we can not allow obstacle to get in the way . when I say " obstacle " , I mean it in the literal sense ; for eight year , I have lead a campaign to remove the power cable over the Tyne , which be a barrier to business secure work for large renewable energy structure . last year , the Institute for Public Policy Research identify Newcastle as the travel to work area with the third high green potential in Britain . however , the current situation put at risk possible net gross value add benefit of up to £ 1 . 2 billion . it have be propose that the removal of the cable will be complete in 2032 . that be too late — the race for green job be now . over the year , few have champion Tyneside ' s industrial strength as powerfully as the Shepherd family , and I take this opportunity to thank they for their tireless work . the employment they have create along the Tyne be commendable , and they have convene some of the sharp mind in the private sector to help solve some of the big problem we face . I welcome Walker North ' s inclusion in the list of trailblazer neighbourhood announce at the spending review . that area will receive up to £ 20 million over the next decade to support its renewal , and I look forward to work with the community to ensure that that funding be use where it be need . as chair of the responsible vaping all - party parliamentary group , I remain concerned that effort to reduce the number of smoker continue to plateau . action on Smoking and Health ' s research that 13 % of adult in Britain smoke , and that this figure have remain at the same level since 2021 , be alarming . over half of adult who smoke and who would benefit from switch completely to vape wrongly believe that it be equally as harmful as smoking , or even more harmful . I hope that when the Tobacco and Vapes Bill return later this year , that misperception about relative harm will not be make bad . I encourage the Government to make clear in other health - relate announcement that vaping be a safe option for smoker look to quit . I will end on a happy and congratulatory note . I recently table two early - day motion celebrate the hard work of individual who have dedicate their life to public service . the first motion applaud Dame Norma Redfearn after a long and successful life in education and as the elect Mayor of North Tyneside . the long list of achievement in my EDM explain why she be widely know in the north - east just by her first name . Norma ' s involvement in the creation of the Greggs Foundation breakfast club in 1999 , after set up her own as a headteacher , change countless life . the second motion concern Gary Kent , who have work in Parliament for 38 year and have be my researcher for 14 . after two decade of anglo - irish peace work , he be secretary for nearly 20 year of the all - party parliamentary group on the Kurdistan region in Iraq . mp use his experience as a cross - party and transnational activist , and the group help build a strong kurdish - british relationship . such people in public life can inspire other and advance the common good . before I begin , may I associate myself with the remark from the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) in respect of a public inquiry for Sir David ? I will raise an important issue that have be raise on a number of occasion by member : private management company , their management of housing estate and the outrageous charge that they make . the land management firm Greenbelt manage the open space of Scartho Top in the part of Grimsby that I represent . many resident of Scartho Top have complain to I about the onerous fee they be require to pay for the upkeep of those public space . the charge exacerbate the exist cost of living pressure that many resident face , and that be not to mention the unfairness of a subset of resident be tie into pay estate charge for public space . some of the charge that my constituent have highlight include tree work at a cost of £ 3 , 110 , plant work at a cost of £ 2 , 989 , site management inspection at £ 11 , 664 , and the cost for contractor amount to almost £ 45 , 000 . as such , on behalf of my constituent , I be call on the Government to address this unfairness and implement the recommendation highlight by the Competition and Markets Authority follow its study into house building . as Ministers will be aware , the CMA call on the Government to implement mandatory adoption of public amenity on new housing estate . I note that the Government ' s response to the CMA ' s study state that while they welcome the CMA ' s work , they " intend to consult publicly on the good way to bring the injustice of ' fleecehold ' private estate and unfair cost to an end " . they intend to gather evidence to supplement the CMA report . I understand the Government will be invite view from a range of expert , and I hope that can be conclude quickly . the CMA also call for the introduction of " enhance consumer protection measure , underpin by a robust enforcement regime , for household live under private management arrangement . " these measure would include : increase the amount of information that homeowner be entitle to receive to understand what they be pay for ; introduce a right to challenge the reasonableness of housing management charge at the first tier tribunal in England , or at leasehold valuation tribunal in Wales ; and , give homeowner the right to apply to a tribunal to appoint a manager in the event of a serious failure . the Government accept those recommendation in principle while highlight that secondary legislation be require to implement they . once again , a public consultation would be require . finally on this topic , I note that the Minister for Housing and Planning , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) make clear in a write ministerial statement on the issue during the winter that we need to act as quickly as feasible to implement these provision . however , echo the Government ' s response to the CMA ' s recommendation , the Minister note that the provision need to be enact and detail under secondary legislation . early today , there be an urgent question follow the announcement that the Prax oil refinery in my constituency be likely to close , which will have an enormous impact on the local economy . that lead I to return to a subject that I have raise score of time in the House . if the local economy be to thrive and the Government ' s growth agenda be to be meet , we must have more transport connection to northern Lincolnshire . the a180 , which serve the port of Grimsby and Immingham , be in an appalling state , consist of only a two - lane dual carriageway . its enhancement to make it a full motorway be essential . access to our major port be , I believe , still a Government priority — it certainly be when I be a member of the Transport Committee — and I hope that the Government will address this issue , as well as join my campaign , along with my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough , for the renew rail connection between Cleethorpes , Grimsby , Market Rasen and King ' s Cross . hear , hear . I know my right hon . friend would say that . finally , Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish you and everyone else a very happy recess . it be an absolute honour to speak in my first Sir David Amess Adjournment debate . Sir David , as we all know , work tirelessly for his constituent . he set the right example for we all by demonstrate that politic at its good be about service , not spectacle . it remain the honour of my life to speak up for the good people of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove . People in our area have have a tough time of it . it be heartbreaking to see our community hollow out by 14 year of austerity . today , however , I be proud to say that the tide be turn . after year of decline , we be finally start to fix what have be break . we be give our young people the good start in life . I recall , long before I become an MP , hear heartbreake story of kid arrive at school hungry . we get to work , and over the past few month we have start to roll out free breakfast club at Milton and Greenways primary academy , and I thoroughly enjoy visit both of they . breakfast club will soon be available at all primary school in Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove , and that fill I with pride . smallthorne primary academy be do fantastic work at the heart of the community . for year , parent throughout our area have miss out on opportunity because of the lack of affordable childcare , but now , with a Labour Government determine to ease the burden for family , we have secure funding for a school - base nursery provide much - need place , and I will be press the Government for more school - base nursery in my constituency . I be excited at the prospect of return , this Friday , to a very important organisation that shape my life and my value : YMCA North Staffordshire . it be where I work for nearly two decade before I become an MP , and it be where I learn what it mean to serve . I can not wait to go back to open its brand - new youth hub , a place of hope , guidance and opportunity , and a place where young people can see that someone believe in they . none of the work that I do would be possible without the tireless effort of the team I have around I . in the past year , we have make more than 200 visit to school , charity , business and resident ’ group , and we have respond to more than 4 , 000 individual piece of casework on behalf of local people — for instance , secure a place for a child in Fegg Hayes to go to a local SEND school after the family have be turn down , restore a £ 27 , 000 maternity payment to a mum in Talke after an incorrect deduction , and secure a 19 , 000 back - payment of pension credit for a Burslem resident who have be wait for over a year . all that work transform life , but there be still so much more to do . a few month after I be elect , both Moorcroft and Royal Stafford , which have sustain our local economy for many generation , announce that they be close down . it be a devastating blow to our area and our ceramics industry . happily , though , there be glimmer of hope . will Moorcroft , the grandson of Moorcroft ' s founder , have step in to safeguard the future of this iconic brand . he have protect a skilled workforce and preserve a name that carry real pride across the Potteries . meanwhile , down the road in Burslem — the mother town of our pottery — t . g . Green have step in to produce fine product at the Royal Stafford site . this be personal for I , because my mum and grandad both work in the potbank of Tunstall and Burslem . I know what the industry mean to local family , and I have keep my word by press Ministers for support whenever I have have the opportunity , include in a Westminster Hall debate that I secure back in March . I be pleased that ceramic be now recognise as a foundation industry in the industrial strategy and that support with electricity cost will come in 2027 , but I will continue to raise with Ministers the need for additional support for the sector between now and then . meanwhile , too many of our historic building still lie empty , decay and increasingly beyond repair , but with the right support many could be bring back into use . they could be convert into affordable , high - quality home that protect our heritage , meet urgent housing need and help to sustain our high street and town centre . under Labour , we must go far and fast to make that a reality , and I urge the relevant Ministers to proactively engage with I to look at what step can be take . I would welcome visit to my constituency so that they can see its potential at first hand . finally , I can not stand here today without pay tribute to Sharlotte - Sky Naglis and her family . Sharlotte be only six year old when she be tragically kill by a driver who be twice the legal limit for alcohol and under the influence of drug . since then , her family have show remarkable strength and determination in their campaign to amend the law on blood testing after fatal road collision . I have continue to press for the Road Traffic Act 1988 to be amend to allow for blood sample to be test without consent in the most serious case where a life have be lose . I be grateful to the Transport Secretary , the Roads Minister and colleague in the Department for Transport for their engagement on this matter , and I look forward to that continue . our community have know hardship and difficulty , but we be strong . we have be knock down , but stokie will never , ever be knock out . now , with a Government who finally have our back , we can start build a well future for every child , every family , every person and every neighbourhood across Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove . rise — order . we be begin to play " beat the clock " . I understand that the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) have some important information about the restoration and renewal of the Palace of Westminster that I be sure member will wish to hear , so I do not propose to impose a time limit immediately . after he have speak , I shall impose a time limit of five minute . hide in plain sight , but not discuss in this Chamber since the general election , be the spending of million of pound on the repair of this building , with member expect to commit later this year to spend billion of pound into the future . the lack of debate or any meaningful transparency come despite the majority of member of this House be newly elect last July . instead , the detailed cost and any vote on option be be delay until later this year — ironically , they will probably come at around the same time that the House be expect to vote on a Budget , which many people expect to include tax rise . member of the House , and member of the public , might reasonably ask why the Leader of the House have not hold any such debate since come into office . this issue speak to a wide principle . be decision well formulate in private when some of the number remain uncertain , with reliance place on internal control and external adviser give assurance , or be it well to have transparency — not least on an issue of great public interest ? a lesson that , as a Minister , I learn from covid be that it be well to have transparency and an open debate about the trade - off early than to hold discussion in secret and allow the benefit of hindsight after the event . support great transparency have be a theme of my time in the House , whether in my initial four year on the Public Accounts Committee or when as a Minister I overrule official advice to disclose information to the National Audit Office during covid . since be elect as Chair of the House ' s Finance Committee , I have repeatedly raise concern in private about the financial management of the House and the multibillion - pound restoration and renewal programme , but I feel it be necessary to raise these issue on the Floor of the House today . before do so , I place on record my thank to Mr Speaker , because I know he care deeply about taxpayer value — an issue he have champion on many occasion . I want to reassure member that I will not disclose any information I have receive in my role as Chair of the Finance Committee or in a private capacity . the crux of the issue be that there need to be a complete reset of the r and r programme . the book need to be open to the public , and we need to bring the public into the debate about how we balance the need of a world heritage site with modern security , accessibility — for example , for those with a disability — and value for money . update cost need to be present . currently , million of pound be be spend work up multiple option , despite our now be in the fifth year of this work . indeed , those option be gold - plate , often base on decision take by member who be no long in the House . there be remarkably little visibility of this issue . the most recent cost present go back to 2022 , and even then the cheap option be £ 8 . 6 billion to £ 13 . 8 billion , with other cost more , and that be without inflation and with no other significant addition . those cost exclude the work member will see on the northern estate , which be not part of the r and r programme , yet the public would associate the two , not least because that work be a key part of any decant . we also know that there be precedent for cost increase massively . if we take the example of the Elizabeth Tower — the most recent example in this House — the cost start at £ 29 million and finish at £ 89 million , which be a 209 % increase . if we look at this morning ' s news , we can see how the cost of Sizewell C have increase . there be know risk in plain sight . in its first report , the National Audit Office cite change to programme as a key risk , yet we know that the sponsor body set up at the start have be scrap . we know that we start with one option and then go up to two and then three , but with A and b option , so in essence we have four option . who know , but there could be a fifth on the way . the governance be opaque . let I give the House an example . the key body that oversee the programme have meet only once this year and only twice since the last annual report . however , if we look at what be in the public domain , the first paragraph of the annual report say that " the R & R Client Board and R & R Programme Board will mean sufficiently robust and detailed information will be available to the new Parliament to support decision on the way forward for R & R . " we have not debate it once , and the govern committee have meet only once this calendar year . I be conscious of the time , so I will canter through some of the other issue . in short , security be often present as a reason for not be transparent , but I would draw member ' attention to the very welcome intervention by Baroness Smith in the House of Lords in her exchange with Lord Hayward about the Carriage Gates , which cost £ 9 . 6 million . I be tell that they still do not work particularly well . just last week , this House debate a mistake that be make by an official in the Ministry of Defence , with member complain about both the cost to the taxpayer and whether that be cover up . how confident be member that no similar example exist ? I simply ask Members : be they aware of the cost of the work on the northern estate , of the trade - off and how they be be shape , or of the cost of any delay ? how confident be they that when they be ask to make such decision alongside a Budget , they will have the information they need ? I will finish with one final example . just as with High Speed 2 , hide something in plain sight involve produce lot of brochure and lot of literature . colleague can see that one of the recent quarterly update state on page 4 : " R & R Surveys … ongoing … budget … ongoing … Develop House of Commons … Plans … ongoing … costed proposal … ongoing … invitation to tender … not start " . it include no meaningful information . indeed , the annual report have financial information only on the final two page , page 29 and 30 . this be not a new issue . Lord Morse , in his 2022 report , note : " Parliament have a historically poor reputation for its contract management and commercial acuman . " I believe issue should be share with the public , the trade - off discuss , and member of this House , particularly new member , give sight of these issue . I have call repeatedly in private for there to be great debate . today , I want to do so on the Floor of the House . it be a huge honour to speak in the Sir David Amess summer adjournment debate . my one story about Sir David relate to a late friend of mine , Julian Ware - Lane , who be often the labour candidate who stand against he in general election . sadly , many year ago Julian be diagnose with cancer and spend long period of time in hospital . Sir David often visit Julian in hospital to see how he be get on , which show we what kind of man Sir David be . on one such visit he discover that , despite have stand for election in Southend on a number of occasion , Julian have never actually have the opportunity to visit this place . Sir David be incense — I suppose that would be the right word — and be determined to ensure Julian have the opportunity to visit Parliament . sadly , Julian pass away before he have that opportunity , but it go some way to show the sort of man Sir David be . he put party politic aside when it come to humanity and I think that be really important for we all to remember . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I would like to take a moment to put on record my thank to the Health Secretary for put up with my constant lobbying on behalf of the people of Harlow for the future location of the UK Health Security Agency . I be delighted that last week he confirm that this Labour Government will see it through , secure Harlow ' s future . as the Health Secretary say last week , it be no long a case of the Oxford - Cambridge corridor ; it be the Oxford - Cambridge - Harlow corridor . I be extremely proud that it be Harlow and the people of Harlow who will be on the front line of the fight against biological warfare . however , for I it be about much more than that . it be about secure the job and career of the future . I visit school across Harlow and the village very week . from Purford Green to Hare Street , Pemberley to Matching Green , Jerounds to the Downs , Milwards to Harlowbury , St James ' s to Holy Cross , I see the incredible potential that young people in Harlow have , and in Harlow College , Passmores academy , Sir Frederick Gibberd college , Mark Hall academy , Stewards academy and Burnt Mill academy , I see the opportunity for that potential to grow . however , for too long that potential have not always be realise . as a former teacher — have I mention I use to be teacher ? — one of my no . 1 aim be to see that change . I know that the UK Health Security Agency will be a huge part of that , along with the investment that will come with it . it be an exciting time for our town with this Labour Government : a clear and achievable timeline for a new Princess Alexandra hospital ; more police on our street — I teach one of they . I be pleased that , as part of the safe street initiative , and after I bring it up in my first question in this House , this Labour Government be tackle the issue of cross - border taxi hiring ; and now we have secure the job of the future in Harlow . it be an exciting time for Harlow . despite the challenge of be a new MP , as I look forward to recess I be still incredibly proud to represent my town and my community , which boast so many great community organisation and charity : from Rainbow Services to butterfly Effect , to Streets2Homes and Action for Family Carers — I declare an interest , because I work for both of they — and the Harlow Stroke Rehab Association . however , I would not be ambitious for my town if I do not want even more for Harlow and the great constituency . the Health Secretary suggest that I should start lobby another Department , but I be sure he would recognise the challenge of mental health provision in west Essex . speak to my constituent Ken and his wife , Sue , while out door - knock at the weekend in Harlow , I hear how they feel let down by the current system . I be determined that this Labour Government will address the inequality — the lack of parity — between mental health and physical health . I be really run out of time , so on a light note I wish Harlow Town all the good of luck for the rest of the season . I thank my team , my family , the House staff and everyone who have help I during my first year in this place . be an MP remain a huge honour — I would say it be the big honour of my life , but if I say that , my wife might divorce I . it be an honour to speak in this debate , name after the late Sir David Amess , to whom I wish to pay tribute . I also use this opportunity to pay tribute to the late Ian Gow , one of my predecessor as a hard - work Member of Parliament for Eastbourne , who be appallingly assassinate in 1990 , and whose shield be on the door above the entrance to this Chamber . I thank all those involve in keep mps and our team safe today , with special mention to pc Will Bayley , who have help my team and I to manage some concern threat to we . it have be an action - pack first year as Eastbourne ' s Member of Parliament . work with incredible campaigner from across our town and beyond , we have : secure the reopening of Eastbourne district general hospital for birth after month of closure ; win our campaign for a direct train from Eastbourne to London Bridge and back ; successfully lead a national campaign to reform the law on domestic abuse ; work with campaigner to save Linden Court day centre for people with learn disability from closure ; work with local resident to protect the Sovereign Centre , where I learn to swim , from lose its pool ; work with Government and other to lock in £ 20 million in neighbourhood funding , which we think we might lose after the election , to regenerate our town ; and much , much more . however , one year in , after take up more than 11 , 000 case for resident , and more than 200 mention of Eastbourne in the Chamber later , there be still much more to do . we need to fix our temporary accommodation catastrophe , which have be trigger by a housing shortage that can be address only if we build more housing and properly regulate temporary accommodation . we have a particular shortage of three - bedroom home in Eastbourne , which be cause a huge challenge . as many other member have say of their constituency , we need to address the SEND crisis in our town , because family such as the Wilcocks and hundred of other be leave without the educational provision that they need . we need Southern Water to get a grip of the foul stench its water treatment work have be emit across our town in recent month , blight the life of resident in Langney Point and beyond . we need a fix to this problem now , not next year , as Southern Water have say . frankly , the ceo should be deny his outrageous pay rise while this issue remain and until local resident have be properly compensate . beyond our shore , in response to the appalling situation in Israel and Gaza and on the west bank , the Government must continue to push for the release of all hostage , urge for aid to be let unobstructed into Gaza , ban arm sale to the israeli Government , recognise a state of Palestine , and further sanction the israeli Government when they infringe international law , and that include sanction on Netanyahu himself . it be an honour to have be elect to represent the town that make I the person I be — the town whose teacher believe in I , whose scout leader challenge I and whose local business take a punt on I by give I my first job . I hope to be able to represent our town for many , many year to come . as we draw to the end of our time before the summer recess , I would like to extend a very open invitation to Eastbourne to any hon . member who have not yet book their summer holiday . Eastbourne be officially the sunniest town in the UK . it have more hour of sunlight than anywhere else in the country — to the disdain of the hon . member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) . I hope that member will come and sample some of the good of Eastbourne delight . rise — I will not take the hon . member ' s intervention , unless he be go to confirm my point . [ interruption . ] okay , I will take his intervention . one of the highlight of my first year have be be confuse with the hon . gentleman on several occasion , include be leave with his dinner receipt in the Members ' dining room . so , if I do go to Eastbourne , I hope that he will pick up the bill for once . I certainly owe the hon . member one , but that be not quite as bad as when I be mistaken for another mixed race Member when I once forget my pass and be grant a pass of somebody else — who may or may not be the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) . I do not settle the bill leave with the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , but I look forward to continue to exchange story about mistaken identity in the WhatsApp group — the DEI crew — that we have create . currently , I think it be 11 - 5 to I in be mistake more time than the hon . member for Huntingdon , but I be sure that there will be many more adventure and shenanigan on that front as time go on . I will if I may return to my point in my last 30 second . I say to hon . member that Eastbourne be open for business . it be open for their custom and it be open for their leisure . our 94 individual beach await . I join colleague from across the House in pay tribute to Sir David Amess . Luton be my home and I love it . I want to put on record the work that people in my constituency do to make it such a thriving community . whether it be people motivate through their faith , such as the amazing Luton Council of Faiths — the church , the mosque , the mandir and the gurudwaras , which support people across Luton North — or people ' s individual value , our community be motivate by a share purpose to see a thriving town full of healthy people and a successful future share by all . we be fortunate to have people who go above and beyond for our town , include Robbie and Lisa Herrick and all those who sign my petition to secure a safe Putteridge Road outside the school , and those of we who be continue to fight for a speed limit of 20 mph in both direction and improve traffic - calm measure . we have see far too many example of dangerous driving in Luton , but especially outside school . then we have the work of the brilliant Chidi and Enitan , who run the over - 50 black man forum , give old black man space to meet and socialise across the region , and all the public health benefit that come with that . I really wish they the good of luck when Luton take on Essex at their next table tennis match . group such as Greenhouse Mentoring and Luton Someries Rotary club put the success of future generation at the heart of all that they do — from raise fund for polio vaccination abroad to work in our town , mentor child through tough teenage year . the Luton Rotary club have a brilliant result in support child through their sat — see an improvement from 58 % to 83 % . spend time with these group be seriously good for the soul . our body — our very , very tired body — such as Luton Jets , Luton Town Ladies and litter pick with Kevin Poulton ' s ABCD - in - Luton , all contribute quietly but powerfully to our community fabric . they make our town happy and healthy . I have love join the litter pick throughout the year and see so many young people join in , take pride in our local environment . on growth , we have have £ 5 billion - worth of investment in our local economy in and around Luton — from our airport and Universal Studios to Goodman ' s take over the Vauxhall site . they be the biggie , but I give a shout - out to small and local business across Luton North every single Saturday . many innovative small business be part of our amazing community and I have love meeting every single one of they , include Stylise Autos , and Grand Bazar supermarket which I open on Leagrave Road . if ever anybody be at my office , they should pop down Marsh Road and speak to Mashud and Maroof at Tamarind Restaurant , and they will make sure you do not go hungry . I have just complete my 200th Small Business Saturday , and I hope that business in Luton North know that I be here for they and that I will continue shout about how good they be . so far , my team have manage nearly 4 , 000 case on behalf of people in Luton North , but still the single big issue be the increasingly desperate situation in Gaza , where ten of thousand people have be kill . israeli force have destroy every hospital in Gaza , and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency struggle to provide schooling to starve child among the rubble and continued attack . until the international community take further action , Netanyahu ' s pursuit of an ethnically cleanse Palestine will not end , and the horror of genocide will become a waking nightmare for those still alive to witness it . at the early opportunity , our Government must recognise a palestinian state , extend arm embargo and ensure that aid safely reach those who need it . More than this , we need a vision that go beyond recognition — a vision of build a Palestine and middle east of safety and freedom , free from terror and violence . close to home , pensioner in the UK have have an anxious time , but something that have not yet hit the headline be bring to I in my last surgery at Warden Hill community centre . Thomas Lee have do the right thing all his life : he save and pay into a pension to secure his future in later year . however , his contract - out additional pension scheme be the state earning - relate pension scheme , or SERPS . the scheme end in 2002 , mean that Thomas and some 2 million like he have lose out . it would be really welcome if any review of the pension system ensure that those like Mr Lee do not continue to lose out . like many in this place , my thought will soon turn to go home , and as they do , I really wish that Leagrave station have the lift that it be promise by the last government . nearly 2 million journey be make from that station , and it be high time we have lift , not scaffold hold up our broken bridge . there be so much I would have like to talk about today , in one of the nice debate in Parliament , but I will not take up more time . I will only say that I feel lucky to live and work in Luton North . I could not ask for well people to work alongside , so let we keep walk down that road together . I be pleased to speak in the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate . one of the highlight of my year be my annual summer surgery tour ; I hold over 75 surgery in town and village across my constituency over 10 day . this be in addition to my usual monthly surgery . the summer recess give I the opportunity to get to the more remote and isolated part of my constituency with my Scottish Parliament colleague Rachael Hamilton MSP . there be still a few appointment available , so I encourage anyone out there who would like one to get in touch and book one . it have be another busy year . I want to focus on some of the campaign in the Scottish Borders over the last year , and the incredible work of those in the Borders who make our community such an amazing place to live . access to cash be a huge issue there . resident in Eyemouth and Selkirk have be leave without adequate banking facility for far too long . I be delighted to present a petition in the House of Commons , sign by over 1 , 400 local people , call for new banking hub to be create . the Scottish Borders need more banking hub , so that local people have access to the essential service they need . the hub in Jedburgh in my constituency be a very good example . it serve local business and resident , and be support by local staff from the post office . the Scottish Borders be under attack : there be far too many windfarm , solar farm , battery energy storage unit and pylon . the Borders be a beautiful place to live and visit , but that beautiful landscape be be blight by new energy infrastructure . I have be lead a campaign against these development , and we form a group call Action against Pylons Scottish Borders to lead the campaign in our local community . I particularly pay tribute to the outgoing chair of the group , Rosi Lister , for all her work in get it up and run , and for her support in lead this campaign . I also thank the dozen of other resident who have support this cause . one of the big , controversial story in the Scottish Borders in recent month have be the Scottish Borders council ' s attempt to shut or mothball several nursery . local resident be quite rightly furious about the council ' s initial proposal . the decision be wrong and need to be reverse . I meet so many parent who be concerned that their young child would be force to travel long distance to go to nursery . many other parent be go to be force to give up work , simply to look after their kid . it be a disgrace that the council be ignore the view of so many parent and family across the Borders , but I be pleased that the council rightly see sense and be review the decision . to make matter bad , the council be now consider a consultant ' s report on close further public service , such as library , swimming pool and leisure centre . I be completely against most of those proposal , and will continue to campaign against they . I pay tribute to volunteer across the Scottish Borders . I start my " volunteer of the year " award to celebrate the many dedicated and selfless people in the Borders who do whatever they can to help other . I receive hundred of entry , and it be hard to choose who to award , but I will mention a few . Kyle McKinlay , who coach young team at Tweedbank Thistle football club , be make a big difference in his community . David Shepherd be involve in organisation include Presenting Coldstream , Coldstream football club and Coldstream bowling club . there be also all the volunteer at Lavender Touch in Galashiels , who provide incredible support to people live with cancer and their loved one . their work and support make incredibly difficult time for people a little bit easy . finally , I pay tribute to Kelso cyclist Oscar Onley , who at the age of 22 be compete in the Tour de France as we speak . he be truly an inspiration to many young cyclist , not only in the Borders but across Scotland and all part of the United Kingdom . I have fond memory of Oscar , because when I be train to do my ironman back in 2014 , he , at the age of 11 , show I how to cycle up some of the very steep hill in the Scottish Borders . even at that young age , he demonstrate mastery , and what a great cycling talent he be go to be . I be sure he have a fantastic cycling career ahead of he . I wish he well in the Tour de France over the come day , and with his future cycling career . as we rise for the summer recess , I want to take a moment to reflect on the real work happen back home in Warrington South in our school , our community space , our hospital and our home . Parliament may not be sit much long , but that do not stop the work at home to deliver the change that our community vote for last year . in recent week , I have visit school and education programme for child and young people , include Evelyn Street and Willow Green , and I have have the pleasure of welcome pupil from St Philip and Barrow Hall to Parliament . every conversation I have have with teacher , parent and education staff come back to the same message : we need to get inclusive education right from the start . that mean make sure that child with additional need can access the right support early , and that specialist child and adolescent mental health service be not a postcode lottery . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on inclusion and nurture in education , and as an officer of the APPG on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , I see the national picture . in Warrington , I see the issue every day in the family I speak to , the school I visit , and the casework that come through my inbox . I hear from family who be do everything they can , and teacher who be go the extra mile , but too often they do not have the right support or specialist provision for their young people . at the heart of everything I do be the simple belief that every child , every family and every constituent should feel safe , see and support . that be why I have back the Government ' s plan to expand free school meal to every child whose family receive universal credit — a change that will support thousand of family across Warrington South . with new , free breakfast club on the way for every primary school , we be take real step to ensure that no child start the day hungry . that be practical , compassionate and reflect something I hear time and again from parent and teacher alike : child learn well when they be feed , focus and ready to learn . while I be glad to see the Government move in the right direction , there be still a way to go . I will keep fight for a system that work for every child , not just the lucky few . inclusion do not end at the school gate ; it extend to place where community come together , such as our local leisure centre . broomfield in Appleton be a much - love facility that play a vital role in keep people active , connected and healthy , but it be age and need serious investment . if we be serious about public health , we must invest in the everyday space that make it possible , and repair and refurbish leisure centre like Broomfields . we have see what be possible when local facility get the investment they need . in Bewsey and Dallam , we now have a proper community hub — a space that I be proud to help bring forward . let I be clear : place like Broomfields deserve that same level of care , investment and attention . when it come to service and infrastructure , our local hospital matter , but after 14 year of under - investment , my constituent be be let down by a system that be struggle to keep up with demand . in the past , false promise be make . I refuse to do that ; I want to be honest with my constituent about the situation we find ourselves in . secure a brand - new hospital be a complex , long - term challenge . many of the hospital in the Government ' s new hospital programme that be ahead of we in the queue be not expect to be complete until well into the next decade , so it be clear that this problem will not be solve overnight . Warrington deserve a new hospital ; that be why my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) and I will keep campaigning to make that a reality . at the same time , we have a duty to act now to tackle the immediate pressure face our local health service , and to make a difference where we can . that be why , a few month ago , at Prime Minister ' s question , I make the case for a new urgent treatment centre in Warrington . since then , I have have a meeting with the Health Secretary to set out just how transformational that project could be for our town . the plan be practical and ready to go , and have be design to ease pressure on A & E and improve access to urgent care for resident . it be now with NHS England . I thank everyone involve , especially our brilliant nhs team , include Nik and Lucy , for their vision , dedication and tireless commitment to improve healthcare in Warrington . the focus on practical , local solution do not stop with the hospital ; it carry through to the everyday support be deliver in our neighbourhood . just down the road , the Bread and Butter Thing at Dallam continue to support family with dignity and care , and in Bewsey , the community shop , which I help to open , have become a lifeline , offer affordable food and a welcome space at the heart of the neighbourhood . flooding cause real worry in part of Warrington South . on new year ' s day , I be out support resident , directly help people find alternative accommodation , deliver hot meal when the power be out , and launch a fundraiser to support family . the impact of the flooding be devastating , and for many , the recovery be ongoing . resident of Sankey Bridges , Penketh , Dallam and Bewsey know all too well what it mean to live with the constant risk of flooding . that be why I have work hard to secure over £ 2 million in additional funding to move the Sankey brook flood risk management scheme into its design phase , and why I will keep fight for that important scheme . as Parliament rise for the summer , the work continue . for I , be an MP be not just about what happen in this Chamber , but about the conversation on the doorstep , the support we offer in moment of crisis , and the change we fight for every single day . I will keep show up , listen and do everything I can to make sure that Warrington South get the future it deserve . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in this summer Adjournment debate , fittingly name after my dear friend and colleague , the late Sir David Amess . however , it be with regret and sadness that I feel the need to draw to the attention of the House the way in which Sir David ' s family have be continuously mistreat . as I have say time and again , include at Prime Minister ' s question , there must be a statutory public inquiry into what happen to David . last March , the Amess family meet the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary at No . 10 Downing Street , support by their former MP Anna Firth , who continue to do commendable work for the family and their campaign for justice . as many have note , particularly my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , the family be petition to work within Lord Anderson ' s process . again they try to do the right thing ; again they try to comply with the Government ' s approach ; and again , as it turn out , that be a grave mistake . the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and , indeed , Lord Anderson , promise to keep the grieve Amess family front and centre of the process . the family be mean to have a guiding — indeed , a lead — role , but that do not happen . instead , they be keep to the sideline , and be not treat as be in a unique position ; and the medium receive information before they do . the treatment of the Amess family have be simply outrageous . the process should have be follow more diligently , and the Amess family should have be treat with significantly great dignity . have lose their father and husband , who be a wonderful friend to we all , the Amess family should have be first , not last , in the pecking order . his Majesty ' s Government should show some more respect for the memory of our late dear colleague , and as I have say before , there must now be a full public inquiry , not only match the Government ' s word with appropriate action , but ensure that lesson be learn . from the Government , we must see an urgent effort to establish the full fact , learn the full lesson from the failing of Prevent , and determine what will be do in future to avoid a repeat of such a crime against this House and , indeed , democracy . the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) refer a few moment ago to the late Member for Eastbourne , Ian Gow , a dear friend of mine who be also murder . he be murder by an IRA bomb on 30 July 1990 , 35 year ago . Ian be the parliamentary private Secretary to Margaret Thatcher , and he first introduce I to Mrs Thatcher in 1982 . he be cruelly murder by the IRA in 1990 . in the 35th year since his murder , let we remember he as well . he be a great man and a bulldog of a politician — a great british bulldog . we still miss he today . as member will know , I be proud of be from the county of Essex , as indeed be Sir David Amess , and if I may , I will take a few moment to say this : Romford be Essex and Havering be Essex , but we have be deny the right to play any part in the discussion about essex devolution . Essex be our county . it be our historic county . Romford and Havering be geographically tie to the people of Essex , yet we be force against our wish to be under the artificial construct call Greater London . I hope that , even at this late stage , the Government will relook at this and give the people of Romford and Havering a chance to have a different form of local government so that we can focus on what be good for our borough of Havering and rekindle the link to our historic county of Essex . I ask all member to look at the wonderful historic county flag on display in Parliament Square . what a wonderful display it be of the fantastic historic county of the United Kingdom , in which the Essex flag be the most prominent . it be a pleasure to be able to speak in this afternoon ' s debate . may I pay a heartfelt tribute to Sir David Amess ? he be a wonderful man . I also pay tribute to Ian Gow MP for his vital work early in the history of this country . I be very proud of our town , and want to speak about Reading and in particular my constituency of read Central . it be a new constituency , although it cover almost exactly the same territory that the read constituency cover in the 1950 , so there be some history there . it be very much focused in the town centre and the nearby part of the town . we have have a year of contrast , and I want to raise a few important point about my constituency and thank many local people for their work in our community . it be vital that I start with the recent development at read football club . I say an enormous thank you to Rob Couhig for buy the club and help we out of the terrible trough that we be in . I also thank the Government for their work , include previous cross - party work , on the Football Governance Bill , an important piece of legislation that I believe will prevent any other english club from suffer the dreadful fate that reading suffer for five year under an irresponsible owner who threaten its very future . I want to thank not only the new owner but the player and fan of reading who have be through an unimaginable time . it be with great pride that we support our club and we look forward to a well season in the new football season later this year . I appreciate the pressure on time this afternoon , so I will try to focus my remark on a few other key issue in our community . one other vital issue for many of my resident , and for I , be the future of read jail . this wonderful historic building , which date back to the 1850 , have be leave empty for some year , and I have campaign for some time , as many colleague may know , for it to be turn into an art and heritage hub in memory of Oscar Wilde , who be incarcerate there . it would be the most incredible facility for our town , bring new opportunity in the art and heritage to read . indeed , it would also encourage tourism to the town , give that we be the western terminus of the Elizabeth line and very close to not only London but city such as Oxford and Bristol . I be pleased that the jail be buy by a sympathetic developer , and I look forward to a successful tender exercise for a new architect and further planning work be carry out . I be also pleased that in the interim , the jail be be use for filming . if anyone watch crime thriller , they may notice that some prison interior shot be film in read jail . that be an indication of just how wonderful the site could be . back in 2014 , there be an incredible exhibition at the jail run by the charity Artangel , in which individual cell be use for installation art , and Oscar Wilde ' s poetry be read in the prison chapel . it be an incredibly move experience . one member of the art world from London be talk on his phone in front of I as we walk down one of the cast - iron walkway , which look like something straight out of " porridge " , and he say the wonderful word , " I ' m in Reading . it ' s really rather good . " I hope that more people can appreciate our town and understand how really rather good we be . I would like to briefly celebrate our river and wonderful green space . there be some great news yesterday from the Environment Secretary about action to tackle pollution in river , a huge issue locally in both the Thames and the Kennet , a major tributary , and other watercourse such as Holy Brook , which have be pollute shockingly in recent year . we have also suffer from flooding . however , there be great news of important improvement to park and riverside space lead by read borough council and in partnership with many other community organisation . I be aware that I have limit time , but I would like to briefly plug other local heritage , include the restoration of Cemetery arch , a historic landmark in Reading . I pay tribute to our dear friend Nick Cooksey , who sadly pass away , who have be lead the project brilliantly . I look forward to further work on the project . I thank our wonderful voluntary group and our many small business that make we such a vibrant town and the major shopping centre for southern England . I be grateful for the new investment in the town at Station Hill where nearly £ 1 billion have be spend renovate the area and improve it dramatically , with a super new tower full of business accommodation and several new large block of flat in the area , which be once home to a car park . I want to celebrate our public service , particularly our NHS , school and police , who do such a wonderful job . I conclude by thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak , and I once again pay tribute to Sir David . this be a wonderful tradition , and I be proud to have contribute . it be a pleasure to follow my constituency neighbour the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) . I can confirm that reading be an excellent place to do shop ; it be a vibrant city with excellent restaurant and an important regional hospital . I be disappointed that the hospital will not be rebuild until the 2040s , but we will , like all constituency mp who circle the Royal Berkshire hospital , continue to advocate for it . it have be a pleasure to represent over the past year my constituent of Henley and Thame . it have be pleasing to back some local campaign , but also to learn some of the national significance that those campaign have , and I would like to speak to two of they . in my hometown of Henley , I have be campaign to get Marsh Lock horse bridge reopen since it close over three year ago . there have be a record of inaction , and when I become the MP , I immediately write to Ministers , the Environment Agency , Thames Path national trail and many other organisation — basically , anyone who would listen . I be pleased that that work have make progress . in do that work , I have discover a lot more about the state of our infrastructure on our river — that is , lock , weir and bridge . we all know the state of infrastructure when it come to education , health and our road , but less know be the poor state of our lock , weir and bridge . they be essential infrastructure for river navigation and safety on the river , and if we do not have they , my hometown of Henley pretty much would not exist and would not have a river run through it — or at least there would not be any water in it . I would like to highlight that situation and call on Ministers to continue look at how additional funding can be raise for the Environment Agency and its vital work there . the second campaign I have be focus on be the Thame to Haddenham greenway . Thame and the village of Haddenham be just three mile apart . Haddenham have the train station , and Thame be the major town with shop , school and many facility . the two be not connect by an off - road greenway capable of take active travel . I have be campaign alongside resident to get that go . that be why I introduce an amendment on compulsory purchase order to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . as we know , compulsory purchase order be readily use for road project , but they be difficult to use for active travel project . that be why I call for Government guidance on that . unfortunately , my amendment be not successful , but I be pleased that Active Travel England will bring forward guidance , include two case study on how other council have successfully use cpo . I be grateful to the Government for push that forward . a cycleway between Goring and Wallingford would also benefit my community . again , I hope that the Government will continue to invest in active travel . I will touch briefly on another issue that I have be campaign on : the lack of ADHD service in Oxfordshire . with no adult service commission for annual review by a specialist , once someone with ADHD who be well control on medication reach the one - year limit , as require by National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline , GPs be remove prescription from they . that be an absolutely scandalous and very dangerous situation for people with ADHD . I urge the Government to move quickly in their task of implement the recommendation of the forthcoming taskforce publication , to ensure that we be properly treat and look after people with ADHD . in my remain time , I will mention some of the excellent organisation that I have have the pleasure of meeting , include the Men ' s Shed in Peppard ; the Sharing Life Trust in Thame , which do excellent work as a food bank ; the River Thame Conservation Trust ; the Riverside Counselling Service ; and the Henley YMCA . like many first - time mp who spend their summer recruiting officer and do a lot of admin , I be very much look forward to this recess , as I be sure all member be . but rest assure that I and my Lib Dem colleague will be back in September to continue hold the Government and the official Opposition to account , and I look forward — order . I call Jodie Gosling . I join colleague in pay tribute to Sir David Amess , a true champion of his constituency . with that inspiration in mind , and with the summer recess ahead , I want to celebrate just a few of the incredible people and the progress make in Nuneaton . Nuneaton have the proud legacy of host the first legal Lionesses game , so I will start with football . just over a year ago , our football team , Nuneaton Town FC , have no home , no team and no committee , yet this year they have manage to top the league , achieve promotion with 121 goal . I thank the board , the fan , Ministers and the Football Foundation for their support . I look forward to bring our club back home . this past year have show I the enormous heart and talent of my town . I commend those who support the George Eliot hospital through the mayor ' s appeal . it raise £ 46 , 000 , which be present by Mayor Bill Hancox and Alderwoman Sheila Hancox early this year . the breast cancer unit will now hopefully move into a new diagnostic centre to continue support health in our community . I thank the dedicated staff at George Eliot hospital , especially Annette Tracey , who retire after 51 year in the NHS , include 45 year in the breast cancer unit . their work have reduce waiting list and improve care not only across Nuneaton but across our country . Mary Ann Evans hospice remain a pillar of our community . it be the proud legacy and final resting place of one of my predecessor , the honourable Bill Olner . I join my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) in celebrate " cheer to 60 " with CEO Liz Hancock , who have selflessly turn over her 60th year to raise even more fund for those vital service . I be proud that Nuneaton and Bedworth elect its first nepalese - gurkha mayor , Councillor Bhim Saru , who be a strong advocate for St Mary ' s ward and the Gurkha community as a whole . around Nuneaton , we be make good progress on improve job prospect . this year I have visit many business , school and training institute . Hercules Construction Academy train more than 1 , 000 apprentice last month . North Warwickshire and South Leicestershire college ' s support internship be break down barrier for disabled people to access good work , and it be a privilege to revisit four of those intern who be now in good work and thriving , their confidence booming . it be an honour to hold the first SEND Parliament early this year and to see how the Government can support the expansion of these scheme . this year , we hold our first Nuneaton sport and activity festival , which be a great success , showcase the role of sport in community cohesion and improve health and wellbee . club like Nuneaton rugby football club and Nuneaton Taekwon - Do be thrive , with Nuneaton ' s George Wright win bronze at the 2024 european championship . like most post - industrial town , Nuneaton have see its challenge , but our town centre be now transform . new college building , a food hall , retail unit and a leisure hub be near completion . the business improvement district be thrive and jump into action with new warden and a packed schedule of summer event . we still have issue with crime and antisocial behaviour , which be be tackle by the brilliant officer at Nuneaton and Bedworth borough council , in conjunction with Councillor Nicky King and Warwickshire police . we be see the return of designate town centre officer and a summer crime blitz to make Nuneaton the proud place we all need to see . it have be an honour to serve Nuneaton this year . in the key area of job , health , education and crime , we be make real progress . I look forward to continue this work and rebuild our thriving , proud town . I thank my team and the House staff who support member for all their work , which make it possible to make the change we be put here to make . I wish they a restful , peaceful and safe break . it be a pleasure to speak in the Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate , which be one of my favourite debate of the year , because it give all parliamentarian the opportunity to talk about the fantastic place and community we represent . we be bless to have an excellent network of charity in Keighley and Ilkley tackle mental health issue . Andy ' s Man Club , Nebula Girls ' Group , AWARE and Missing Peace Wellbeing and Support all do fantastic work . I be privileged to host they recently at a mental health forum in Ilkley alongside Dr Caroline Rayment , where we bring together a range of stakeholder to talk about the challenge face young people . I thank Dr Laura Spells , who come along to give hugely compelling and deeply worrying evidence about the damage that smartphone be do to our young people . I look forward to continue to work with Dr Caroline Rayment and those stakeholder to tackle the mental health challenge face our young people . in Keighley and Ilkley , we like to do thing properly . that be why just last weekend it be excellent to attend two standout show from both end of the musical spectrum . Beat - Herder be one of the highlight of the UK festival calendar , and it be fantastic to go along and support the independent show create by six lad from Keighley . I want to say a huge thank to Jamie Foxon and Nick Chambers for organise that event . at the other end of the spectrum , the BBC definitely have competition , because Silsden Proms on the Farm be a roar success for another year run . I pay tribute to Stuart Clarkson , William and Eileen Jowitt and their team of 10 volunteer who put that fantastic event together , raise money for Sue Ryder Manorlands hospice and the Silsden Methodist church . I know that many who attend that fantastic music event visit Olive & Green and Isherwoods butcher beforehand to ensure that their picnic be as good as they could be . I also attend the Oxenhope straw race , which be in its 50th year . for those in the House who do not know about that event — crikey ! — it be where everyone get dress up in fancy dress and run down the Worth valley , have a pint or two in the pub along the way . the event have raise more than £ 500 , 000 for local charity across Keighley and the wide Worth valley . I commend Robin Wright and his team for the excellent work that they have do in bring it together . let I say a huge well do to our local Salvation Army , whose victory programme teach young people for free how to make cheap and nutritious food . I be lucky to meet some of they just this weekend ; I have a great chat with many of they about the challenge they face . I say a huge thank you to Imogen Stewart and her team for the work that they do alongside Rachel to provide those teaching session for many people across Keighley . it be vital to give young people the skill to stay on the right path , and that be why I want to say a huge thank you to Switch hitter box club . I particularly thank Jonny Greenwood for get it go in Keighley . the club be do excellent work . I attend it , but I do not get involve in the boxing session myself — I have confirm that I will go back with my short on so that I can take part . I feel slightly intimidate by some of the lad from Keighley in their boxing gear , but I will go back and give they some support , because sport club do a huge job in provide confidence to young people from across Keighley . Ilkley be lucky to be the official host of Yorkshire Day on 1 August . we be lucky enough to host it a couple of year ago in Keighley , and we will now host it in Ilkley , which will be a huge success for all resident across our area . I wish all member across the House a very happy recess . I hope that they will be out door knock , speak to as many constituent as possible and advocate as strongly as possible for the thing that matter to they at a local level , as I will be . it be a great pleasure to speak in this summer Adjournment debate and to remember the star of the show in year go by , Sir David Amess , whose plaque sit behind we . I also remember today my dear late friend , Jo Cox . Jo and I serve together on the board of the Labour Women ' s Network , and I often think of she . I know that we be significantly poor in this place for the absence of her experience and her voice of real moral authority . I have to say something about the horrific situation in Gaza . hon . member may know that I be there in April last year , in my former role as an aid worker . even as I have be sit in this debate , I have have an update on my phone saying that 15 people have die of starvation there in the last 24 hour . since I hear that the israeli military be now attack Deir al - Balah , I have be think of a lovely former colleague there who have a disabled daughter . where be they suppose to flee to ? the former israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert say that his country plan to set up a " concentration camp " in Rafah . the noble Baroness Kennedy say just last week that genocide be take place . the world must stop these atrocity . our Government have take important action , but more be desperately need , and quickly . let I turn to my constituency . yesterday I have the great pleasure of attend the Burntisland highland game , the second - old highland game in the world . it be a pleasure to join the parade behind the Burntisland and District pipe band , to hear the chieftain declare the game open and to enjoy some of the fine highland dance on display . I congratulate the games committee on a very fine event . I will continue to work on improve accessibility at Burntisland train station — an issue that I have raise directly with both Network Rail and the Secretary of State for Transport . frankly , Network Rail need to get on with it , because the community have be ask for an accessible station for many year and have wait for long enough . we need action to make Kinghorn and Cowdenbeath railway station accessible too . in such a beautiful coastal constituency , the work of our lifeboat be hugely important . this year , Kinghorn ' s Royal National Lifeboat Institution lifeboat celebrate its diamond jubilee , and I take this opportunity to wish the crew and the committee enormous congratulation and to thank they for the lifesave service they provide to our community . they have already respond to 70 shout this year alone . sixty year of lifesave service be an incredible achievement . turn to Cowdenbeath , I congratulate Cowdenbeath Rotary club on its centenary , and draw attention to the wonderful mining plaque that be unveil in Brunton Square on Tuesday . that plaque commemorate Cowdenbeath ' s proud mining history and the key role that the area play in power our nation . of course , it also commemorate the miner who tragically lose their life in the pit . over in Kirkcaldy , I pay tribute to all those who play such a vital role in organise this year ' s inaugural Lang Toun Fest . the work of all involved deserve recognition — they have give the town a cultural , musical , educational and artistic spring in its step in recent week , and I be already look forward to next year ' s Lang Toun Fest . I hope to work with all the organisation in Kirkcaldy that I have mention as we provide input and idea on regeneration to Fife council , which will decide how to spend the Chancellor ' s multimillion - pound investment through the new growth mission fund on Kirkcaldy ' s town centre and seafront . I be hugely proud that our Labour Government recognise the potential of our town and be invest in our place and our people after year of SNP and Tory neglect . I have create a survey on my website that have already be sign by over 350 local resident , and over recess I will be hold meeting , surgery , roundtable and pop - up event to hear more from constituent , business and community organisation about what they want to see . I will pass their view on to Fife council . at the same time , I promise that I continue to press the Treasury to secure as much funding as possible . I congratulate Growing Kirkcaldy on be nominate for a Britain in Bloom award for the good town or city centre — the only scottish town in that category . it make our town more beautiful , and we will all be hold our breath on 15 August as the two - hour judging walkabout make its way around the Lang Toun . I wish grow Kirkcaldy the very good of luck , and I wish every Member here a peaceful recess and thank the House staff for all their support . order . before I hand over to the Chairman of Ways and Means , I would like to say that this will be my last session in the Chair for the foreseeable future . I thank colleague for the courtesy with which I have be treat , and thank you in particular for the tribute that you have pay to my friend David Amess . David and I sign on the register on the same day when we come into the House . I be very grateful to you all . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I join the House in thank you for your work as Chair . it be an honour to speak in this debate , hold in memory of Sir David Amess . his legacy remind we what it be to be an MP — to show up and champion the concern of the people we represent . that be the spirit I have carry with I throughout my first year as the Member of Parliament for the brand new seat of Harpenden and berkhamste . over this year , access to health and social care have remain one of the most pressing challenge . I have hear from a constituent in Berkhamsted who face an eight - month delay for their NHS appointment ; from Katie from Aldbury , an expectant mother who could not get an NHS dentist appointment within 50 mile ; and Clare from Harpenden , who care for her mother with dementia while juggle newborn twin and have be push to the brink with little support . it be an honour to welcome the family of Ed Holderness , who sadly take his life at the age of 24 — they be campaign on the importance of mental health care . locally , I congratulate organisation such as Hector ' s House and Youth Talk on their work . we have see movement on the NHS , which I welcome , but we urgently need proper reform , include prioritisation of mental health and social care work . as I have do throughout this year , I again urge the Government to start cross - party talk on social care soon rather than later . the environment demand equal attention . my constituency have four of the world ' s rare chalk stream , which be beautiful place — the Ver , the Bulbourne , the Gade and the Lea — yet Markyate sewage treatment work have dump sewage into the River Ver for almost 5 , 000 hour in the past 12 month , and around 3 , 000 of those hour be non - stop . it be an honour to secure my first Westminster Hall debate on tackle sewage in chalk stream . I have meet Thames Water to push for action on upgrade Markyate ' s sewage work , and I welcome the Government ' s proposal yesterday . I look forward to meet the relevant Minister to see how those change can be use to prioritise the upgrading of those sewage work . I thank organisation such as the Ver Valley Society , the friend of the River Bulbourne , sustainable St Albans , EcoBerko and Sustainable Tring , which will not let I stop campaign on these important issue . move on to our high street and family , small business be still struggle , and as someone who grow up help my mum on the shop floor , this issue be close to home . many business , such as Temptation in Berkhamsted , thread of Harpenden and Almar in Tring , say that they be still struggle , and many be question how they can cope with the rise in employment cost , national insurance cost and rent , as well as other cost . they be struggle , and they be ask , " will we stay open ? " these business , as member from all part of the House have say , be the lifeblood of our local community . I urge the Government to rethink some of those proposal and think about how we can support our high street and small business . transport be a grow concern in my constituency . we have see continue cut to vital service , include to the x5 , which connect constituent across Tring and Berkhamsted . while I be pleased that the frequency of Red Eagle service have increase to every 30 minute — we have work hard with local campaigner — many community remain isolated . I will continue that work , but we need more support from Government . unfortunately , local authority be struggle to deliver under the current financial constraint . Hertfordshire county council recently outline grave concern about the fair funding review , which see the council face a reduction of £ 45 million to £ 55 million in its grant . that be not just a budget squeeze , but a direct threat to those social service and transport service that be deliver to our community . on a positive note , I have be excited about the work we have do on science , innovation and technology , especially close to home . a safe screen tour have allow I to bring the voice of young people to that work nationally . it be a real proud MP moment when , after I have visit and speak to two of my local school — Ashlyns school and berkhamsted school — they decide to get together and student themselves want to campaign on online safety . I urge the Government to listen to those call for change . throughout the past year , my team and I have handle more than 10 , 000 piece of casework . it be some of the most enriching work that we do . I have hold more than 300 local meeting and raise question and issue more than 500 time with the Government . every one of those have be on behalf of resident of Harpenden and Berkhamsted . I thank colleague across the House for their support , and I especially thank my team , who have help deliver for local resident as I have find my foot in my first year as an MP . I hope that my time as an MP reflect the principle I put forward in my maiden speech : to be guide by the value of community , tolerance and perseverance . most importantly , I thank the community organisation that deliver for Harpenden , berkhamste , Tring and my beautiful village , include the Harpenden Trust , the Swan Youth Project , Open Door , food bank , the Harpenden Money Advice Centre and many other . I wish everyone a fantastic recess as we go back to our constituency to be refresh for when we come back in September . rise — there be about 16 colleague bob . for I to try to get they all in , I will have to reduce the speak limit again to four minute . it may reduce again . it be an honour to speak in this debate today . I pay tribute to Sir David Amess , who I never meet but whose legacy and value live on . I start by mark Norfolk Day , which be take place this Sunday . it take place on 27 July every year to celebrate everything that make Norfolk special , from its beautiful landscape to its history and its community spirit . I take the opportunity to say thank you to the community group and voluntary organisation in Norfolk and Norwich who do so much on this day and all year round . I have enjoy visit many of they over the past year and will continue to do so . Norfolk be not just a county of beauty and tourist charm ; it be the dry county in the country , even though it might not be the sunny , although I might dispute that . we be not just a county of beauty and tourist charm ; we be also a county full of innovation and creativity . great thing often arise quietly from Norfolk , be that the first UK Prime Minister , Robert Walpole , our lead naval hero Lord Nelson , or Julian of Norwich , who be think to be the first woman to write a book in English that have survive . many great thing continue to come from Norfolk , include Alfie Hewett , and Lauren Hemp , who will be play this evening against Italy for the Lionesses . I be sure member will join I in send they the good of luck as they progress in their campaign . we have an opportunity to maximise the potential of the county far through devolution , and I be pleased that Norfolk be in the devolution priority programme . that , along with local government reorganisation , will enable we to attract more investment , secure more job and deliver well service for our resident . with limited time , I will turn to three constituency issue . I be very proud to represent Norwich North . first , on health , many great thing come from Norfolk and Norwich , as I have say , and that include pioneer health research work . I recently host the University of East Anglia in Parliament to showcase its work on prostate cancer diagnosis . that could transform the life of man around the world . Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital be also lead a world - first drug trial to tackle endometriosis . woman ' s health be a priority for I , so I be glad to see such pioneer work on my doorstep . however , we face many health challenge , and the most noticeable be dentistry . we have make some good progress so far , with 21 , 000 urgent extra appointment allocate to Norfolk and Waveney , but we must go ahead quickly with reform of the dental contract . I have be reassure by what my right hon . friend the Health Secretary have say about that . I have also be campaign , along with other member , to secure a new dental school at the University of East Anglia . I believe that ours be the only region without one , and it be desperately need , so I hope to hear good news about that soon . I welcome the Government ' s investment at the Norfolk and Norwich hospital and in local doctor ' surgery ; after 14 year of neglect , it be badly need . I also thank everyone who join our campaign to save the NHS walk - in centre in Norwich , which be , unbelievably , once more under threat of closure . nhs boss have listen , and have tell my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) and I that such plan will not be propose again . I will keep up the pressure on , among other , the Norfolk and Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust for well mental health service . secondly , I want to talk about housing . too many people in my constituency be struggle to get on the housing ladder , stick on waiting list or face soar rent . I therefore welcome the £ 34 million that the Government have give our labour - lead city council to unlock Anglia Square , a site that have need investment for decade and will now be able to deliver many affordable home and job . this come alongside the welcome Renters ' Rights Bill , which will , among other thing , end no - fault eviction . I hope that the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will provide more way in which to hold developer to their promise to provide community infrastructure . in two instance , play park have not be deliver . thirdly , I want to say something about opportunity . in my constituency and many other , special educational need present a huge challenge . I will keep press for the change that we need , include a new SEND school in Angel Road . I thank all the school that have host I , and the child who have ask such excellent question . we must ensure that every child have a good job after education . that be why I be so passionate about clean aviation and clean energy in our region . I do not have time to say much more . let I end by say that I will keep fight for the health , opportunity and home that my constituent need , and by thank my team and all my constituent for be so brilliant . I speak today in the tradition of use these debate to highlight issue face constituent . Sir David Amess set a high bar in make the most of his opportunity to champion his constituent , and while we come from different political tradition , I respect the example that he set . let we start with road safety . over the last year , I have raise serious concern about rural road throughout my constituency . I have highlight dangerous junction on the A27 , and recently back Arlington parish council ' s campaign to improve safety on the rural road around Arlington and Upper Dicker . elsewhere , community have be leave to take matter into their own hand . those live along the C7 , which run through Kingston , Rodmell , Piddinghoe , Southease , Iford and Swanborough , have raise more than £ 20 , 000 just to fund a feasibility study as part of the " safe C7 " campaign . the fact that community be have to crowdfund for something as fundamental as road safety speak volume . it be a damn indictment of national Government failure to deliver the infrastructure that our village and rural community need . let I now turn to the issue of housing and planning . housing remain one of the great pressure face my community . too many family be stick in temporary accommodation while genuinely affordable home remain out of reach . in area such as mine , we urgently need high - quality housing in which people can actually afford to live . at the same time , we see poor planning decision and underused site waste precious opportunity . I have raise the case of Talland Parade in Seaford directly with Ministers as a prime example of what happen when developer be allow to bank brownfield site in town centre to the detriment of community . I be hopeful that promise new power in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will give local authority the power to act , at last , on case such as this . we do need new home , but they must come with the infrastructure to support they , along with proper consultation with local resident and a focus on affordability . I be glad that my local district council listen to local concern , and choose not to include the Eton new town proposal in its draft local plan . that be absolutely the right decision . speculative , large - scale development of that kind , drop into rural area without proper infrastructure or consultation , do not serve our community . meanwhile , village such as Ringmer be be bombard with a constant stream of individual housing application , with no investment in road , school or healthcare to match . that be not plan ; it be place pressure on community that be already at break point . transport provision be key to make planning decision . I welcome last week ' s news of a direct rail service from Eastbourne to London Bridge , via Polegate , Berwick , Glynde , Lewes and Cooksbridge , which be a step in the right direction for rail connectivity across the south - east , but like many of my constituent in the area I be very unhappy to learn that it would not stop at Plumpton . my constituent deserve well than to be leave behind in major transport decision , and I will be object to the rail operator , GTR , and to the Department for Transport in the strong term . finally , constituent regularly raise with I the ongoing and unacceptable closure of the west beach in Newhaven — the only stretch of sandy beach in our area . even nearby coastal town , such as the aforementioned and wonderous Eastbourne , can not match up to our sandy stretch in Newhaven . shut off by Newhaven Port & Properties , which be partly control by the french authority , this treasured local space have be out of bound to resident for too long . I have engage directly with those responsible to demand answer and to push for the beach to be reopen . this be not just about a stretch of sand ; it be about fairness , local pride , and the right of community to enjoy what should be a share public asset . generation of local family have memory of happy summer spend on that beach . they should not have to look back wistfully ; they should be able to return to it . we will keep fight to reopen the west beach — enough be enough . none of these problem exist in isolation . the issue of road safety , gp access and housing all reveal a deep failure of governance over many year . I will keep work with my local constituent , resident and campaign group to get real change on the issue that matter , and to provide genuine representation for resident in Seaford , Newhaven , Lewes , Polegate and every village that I represent . a portion of Southend West be represent by David Amess , and I call the new MP for the area . it be not lose on I that I have huge shoe to fill in this place , as I stand here represent the constituency that be Sir David Amess ' s . I send my thought to his wife Lady Julia and all the family , and I hope that we can find a way to give they the answer that they need . this be my second year of contribute to the Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate , and the last year have go so quickly , but the passage of time have not erode the memory of Sir David Amess . many member on both side of the House , and many people in my constituency , will never forget he . he be very much miss . in my constituency , Tony Martin , who run the Chalkwell lifeguard station , set up a temporary memorial to Sir David , with lot of picture from his life and his time in Parliament . it be a fantastic temporary display , and I be delighted that over the last couple of month I have be able to work with Lady Julia and some of Sir David ' s team to put in place a permanent display on the wall of the lifeguard station . I thank everybody who have be involve in that project . of course , one of Sir David ' s legacy be that his death lead to Southend become a city . every city need a cathedral , and I have be try to get one , but it be prove difficult , because Chelmsford have one and there can only be one per diocese . however , I be work with the Bishop of Bradwell to see what we can do about give special recognition to the historic St Mary ' s church , where Sir David have his Southend funeral . I hope that we can get this over the line and that I will get the support of the Church Commissioners in make it happen . I want quickly to recognise the charity Trust link , base in my constituency , which turn 25 year old a couple of week ago . its chief executive officer Matt King and its founder Cheryl Higgins have do absolutely fantastic work in transform a derelict plot of land in Westcliff into an outstanding project , which tackle loneliness and social isolation through a range of different activity . the staff there work on mental health as well — it be a true example of what the Government want to do in move from hospital to the community . we have be strike by two tragedy in Southend over the last couple of week . I want to recognise the death of seven - year - old Leonna Ruka , who be kill by a fall tree in Chalkwell park on 28 June . I send my sympathy to her family . on Sunday 13 July , we have the plane crash at Southend airport ; again , I send my thought to the family of the four people who be kill . I sincerely thank the emergency service , Southend - on - Sea city council and its leader Councillor Daniel Cowan , the airport staff and the airport ' s ceo , Jude Winstanley , for everything they have do on both of these tragedy over the last couple of week . most importantly , I thank the amazing Southend community , who have come out , lay flower and pay tribute to the family . it have be absolutely heartbreaking to see what have happen over the last couple of week . this be the end of my first year as an MP , and it have be an absolute privilege and honour to serve the people of Southend West and Leigh . we have achieve a lot , and there be plenty more to come . I be look forward to it , and I wish all member in this House a very happy and pleasant summer recess . it be an honour to contribute to the Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate . I shall limit myself to a topic that be very important for my constituency of Ceredigion Preseli : the future of coastal rural economy . I shall make the case for a renew emphasis and focus on the redevelopment and regeneration of those economy , not least because that would go a long way to address the Government ' s aspiration for growth across the United Kingdom , but also because it would help address a demographic trend that already pose severe challenge for the provision of public service in those area , and that , if leave unarrested , could become critical . ceredigion Preseli , like many other constituency , have an age population . the trend be particularly pronounce in my constituency . accord to the Office for National Statistics , if current trend continue , 30 % of the population of Pembrokeshire and a third of the population of Ceredigion will be old than 65 by the year 2040 , which be just 15 year away . I need not explain to hon . member just how challenging it will to not only maintain the vibrancy of our community , but ensure effective provision of the wide range of public service that any civilised community and society expect . in a renew emphasis , focus and perhaps even strategy on rural and coastal economy , the Government would do well to recognise the importance of small business to these community . in Ceredigion Preseli , some 81 % of our over 5 , 500 business be classify as small business , and have few than 50 employee . this be quite typical for rural area , where small business — especially in the agricultural , hospitality , tourism and leisure sector — drive the local economy . it would be very welcome if the Government look again at a policy that use to be in place . I be tell yesterday by a former civil servant that back in the Tony Blair Government , one stage in the development of any policy in Whitehall be call rural - proofing — a consideration of the impact of the policy on rural context . if that have be reintroduce , I do not think we would have have the inheritance tax change to agricultural property relief and business property relief , which be already cause great concern . accord to a report by Confederation of British Industry Economics , it be estimate that 55 % of family business and 49 % of farm business be cancel propose investment project in anticipation of those change . small business in rural and coastal area need a little bit of hope and confidence from this Government . rural - proofing as a stage in policy development , and a dedicated strategy for the redevelopment of rural area , would go some way to restore that faith . in the short time I have leave , I will touch briefly on the importance of our high education sector . university and high education institution must play a critical role in any strategy for ensure growth across every part of the United Kingdom . in my constituency , some 3 , 300 job be support by its university — that be 10 % of all job — and it be a real concern that we hear so little about university ' current quandary . rise — Order . I be try my good to get everybody in , so the speak limit be now three minute . I wish to pay tribute to the late Sir David Amess . I do not have the privilege of meet he , but his reputation clearly precede he , as do that of the late Jo Cox . I be a member of the Speaker ' s Conference , and we be do all we can to propose the change need , and get the culture shift require to deter and prevent the intimidation of candidate and elect official at all level , so that our precious democracy can thrive . that be particularly vital if we be to encourage young people to get involve in our political system . the doom monger be wrong about our young people . far from be a problem , they be our great natural resource — one that be often under - utilise , and that we must unleash . I have try to do this in my constituency , include by hold a " pitch your policy " event . young people pitch in one minute the one new policy idea or law change that they would bring in . there be then two minute of question from the audience , follow by a vote . some lack confidence ; other come to the event straight from a basketball session — a good illustration of the fact that we need to go to the place where young people be , and listen . I take the win idea to the Chamber , where the Leader of the House respond to it , and I thank she for that . we should bring the voice of young people into the corridor of power , because young people be genuinely interested in their community , their life , their country and definitely our world . they have excellent idea to bring to the fore . they be go to inherit the future ; we have well encourage they to engage with politic , so that they can be the architect of that future , rather than merely exist in a world design by generation past , who have , to put it politely , singularly fail to create a world of opportunity for all our young people . the voice of young people be not be hear enough ; the focus be all too often elsewhere . for example , we hear much noise about the alleged attack on pensioner by the Government . if we zoom out and look down from outer space , we would see it be actually the young generation who have be neglect by government of all stripe . young people do not get a triple lock . they should . they be the generation for whom buy their own home be out of reach , and they have far less job security than previous generation . early in the week , in a social medium video , I ask people to leave a comment say what change old generation would need to make for the young generation to have more influence in politic and lead an empower life . a . McCaslin say : " we need the same opportunity that the generation before we have . they dismantle the ladder they use to build their life and then tell we to figure it out like they do . " when people say to I , " I don ' t do politic , " my response be , " well , politic do you . if you ' re not involved , you cede the ground to those who understand the power of politic . " I have be proud to be part of a Government who be rectify that . finally , I want to say , in the limited time I have leave , a thank you to all member of this House and all staff . they have show newbie like I only support and kindness . the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) epitomise that — a good example from this generation to the next . I pay tribute to Sir David Amess . I wish to speak about a number of transport issue relate to my constituency . early this month , I have the pleasure of welcome the Rail Minister to Ashford , where we attend the opening of a new career and skill hub for Southeastern . after the opening , I take the Minister on a tour of Ashford International station , and the part of the station leave abandon since Eurostar decide in 2020 that international rail service would no long stop at either Ashford or Ebbsfleet . those part of the station stand ready for international passenger to use once again . it be great to have the noble Lord Hendy reiterate his and the Government ' s support for our campaign to have international rail service return to Kent . in my year in the House , the other transport issue I have raise just as regularly as the return of international rail to Ashford be the deployment of Operation Brock on the M20 . I be sorry that it be necessary to present a petition to the House on the subject last week , on behalf of my constituent . it be hugely disappointing that Kent county council and the Kent and Medway resilience forum have introduce Operation Brock once again , and that it will remain in force until at least 4 August . the recent announcement that the Dart charge will increase from September have disappoint many of my constituent . if we take that together with the toll now in place for the Blackwall and Silvertown tunnel , the result be that all those route will now cost more . we should , of course , encourage people to take public transport wherever we can , and I recognise that the charge be in place to manage traffic number . however , many of my constituent will have no option but to pay the increase charge , as they have only one route to work available to they . pothole be a blight on the road in my constituency , just as they be in the constituency of most member . it be wrong that , as a result of under - investment by the Conservatives , our constituent have be expect to deal with the repercussion of poor road and the maintenance backlog that have build up . I welcome the fact that the Government be commit additional resource to fix this problem ; they be provide £ 500 million in extra funding for highway maintenance across the country this year , and Kent county council will receive up to an additional £ 16 million . if those problem be to be fix , there will of course need to be roadwork , but I plead on behalf of my constituent for much well co - ordination to ensure that any disruption be keep to a minimum . I conclude by thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as well as Mr Speaker , all my colleague and the staff of this House . it be an honour to speak in my second Sir David Amess Adjournment debate , and to speak of my constituency of Carlisle and the incredible roman dig there that be rewrite our understanding of Britain ' s ancient history . Carlisle — or , as the Romans call it , Luguvalium — be no ordinary outpost . it be a strategic stronghold on the northern frontier of the roman empire , and serve as a key military and logistical hub , guard the western end of Hadrian ' s wall and control movement between Roman Britain and the unconquered land of Caledonia . the city bear witness to the march of legion , the clash of culture and the daily life of soldier , merchant and their family who live on the edge of the empire . now , thank to this dig , nearly 2 , 000 year later , we be uncover their story , one layer at a time . the roman dig at Carlisle cricket club have reveal not just one of the most significant roman bathhouse ever discover in Britain , but the large building on Hadrian ' s wall , as well as evidence to suggest that the site may have host the Roman Emperor Severus in his final year . since 2021 , this volunteer - lead community excavation have unearth more than 4 , 000 artefact , from coin and pottery to tiny , delicate gemstone and huge carve stone head . these find tell we not just about roman engineering or military might , but about people — their habit , belief , luxury and loss . Carlisle ' s roman past be not a distant memory ; it be alive beneath our foot . it remind we that history be about more than king and battle — it be about community , resilience and the endure human spirit , which be exactly what we have hear about in all our community this afternoon . I invite member to join I in thank all the volunteer involve in the dig , lead by the wonderful Frank Giecco from Wardell Armstrong , and all make possible thank to funding from the Government , Cumberland council and the National Lottery Heritage Fund . together , they be not just uncover Roman Carlisle , but remind we that we be but fleeting custodian of our community , and that we should always treat that responsibility with the same pride and respect that Sir David do . I join colleague in remember Sir David Amess . I want to acknowledge the death of my father - in - law last month . he be a wise , kind and decent man , and will be miss by we all . I be grateful to all colleague for the kindness show to I and my wife , although I do remain very , very cross that I be force to travel back to this place to vote on the day that my father - in - law die . member who have be accuse of criminal behaviour can vote by proxy , but people with die relative can not . that be off the mark . it be unacceptable , and it must change . it have be a privilege to serve the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme over the past year . be the voice of our community in Parliament be the honour of my life , and I be conscious of that responsibility every single day . in my maiden speech , I make tackle Walley ' s Quarry landfill site my no . 1 priority . we run the cowboy operator out of town , secure the closure notice , and close the place down . I be grateful to the Environment Agency for the work it have do in recent week to stabilise the situation . our focus must now be on the safe and secure restoration of the site . the special educational need and disability crisis in Staffordshire have be firmly on my agenda since the election . I have stand with , and up for , the parent and carer who must navigate a broken system every day to get their child and young people the support they need and deserve . fix our road have also be a real priority . that be why I launch my great pothole survey , empower local people to help I hold the county council to account . we have see action on Lower Milehouse Lane in Cross Heath , Pepper Street in Silverdale and Dunkirk in the town centre , but we need much more . I hope that those on the county council , who seemingly watch lot of my speech in the Chamber , will listen to my call to use the money that this Labour Government have give they to get on with the job . the event in the middle east be unforgivable and inexplicable . the death of innocent woman , man and child on our screen be beyond comprehension . I be raise to believe that action have consequence , so I urge Ministers to do whatever they can to hold the Netanyahu regime to account , to ensure that this war end and to recognise the state of Palestine . a two - state solution require two state . it be a simple as that . last week , I have the opportunity to attend one of Keele university ' s graduation ceremony . I send big congratulation to all the graduate and their family and pay tribute to Professor Trevor McMillan , who be stand down as vice - chancellor . I wish he , his wife Chris and their family well . I shall keep urge Ministers over the next year to give real support to the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . I have make this case before . the Government have get a lot right , so let we get this right , too . we need justice for member of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme as it be long , long overdue , and I urge my colleague in Government to get this matter over the line . we need more support for our ceramics industry in Newcastle - under - Lyme and Staffordshire more broadly . I know from meet my constituent in local business such as Silverdale Bathrooms that there be much more that we need to do . I will keep fight for local job . FedEx , which plan to cut 400 job , must change its mind . we can not lose job in our industrial heartland to affluent community in the south . I say to our farmer on Saturday that I have their back and remain their champion . happy recess , Madam Deputy Speaker . although some people will be hope for a summer that be hot , hot , hot , many worker will not be do so , because , although we rightly have legal protection against the cold in the workplace , there be still no legal maximum for heat . I be pleased that Ministers begin a process with the Health and Safety Executive in the spring to look at workplace temperature , and I look forward to a timetable be set for a public consultation . maximum work temperature , back by law , be already standard practice in other country such as Spain and Germany . but , to be clear , this be not just about stop work when the sun shine , but about common - sense protection , such as ventilation , rest break , cool uniform and flexible hour . the climate be change , and so too must our law . let I turn to another summer matter . as we head into the summer recess , member across the House will no doubt be think about their summer reading list — I be sure that you might have a few title line up yourself , Madam Deputy Speaker . but how often do we stop to think about where those book be print ? a quiet revolution be happen in the publishing industry . million and million of book be be print in Bedfordshire every single year , yet this have remain a really well - keep secret for some time . that be why I call on Amazon to include the word , " print in Dunstable " in every book produce at its Bedfordshire site . to make my point , I write a child ' s story myself , about a little book with an identity crisis — he do not know where he be from . he go all around the country , from Bristol in the south to Aberdeen in Scotland . like all good story , it have a happy ending , because the local MP intervene . I challenge Amazon to make my story come true , and I be absolutely delighted to be able to tell the House today that , from this week , every book print by Amazon in Dunstable will say just that — that it be print in Dunstable . that be a brilliant way to put the town and its people on the map . Madam Deputy Speaker , whatever you and other member be read in the next few week — whether it be a biography , a romance , or even a political thriller — I hope that you all have a great summer . it be a privilege to speak in this debate in memory of Sir David Amess . my home town of Blackpool be full of character and resilience . its people be proud , its community be close - knit and , despite face more than a decade of neglect , we remain hopeful for the future . a person do not have to spend long in my constituency of Blackpool South to feel the warmth and strength of our coastal spirit . but as the Independent Commission on Neighbourhoods make clear in its recent report , our community have be ask to bear more than their fair share of the country ' s hardship , and nowhere be that starker than in Blackpool South , where we have 34 mission - critical neighbourhood , which be more than any other constituency in the country . that represent nearly every part of our town , where 97 . 8 % of our population live , include I and my family . I see the impact of this daily : the exhausted public service , the empty shop front , the health inequality and the frustration that many feel when they see new development , new initiative and new opportunity as be for someone else . I be proud that this Government be work on a new child poverty strategy , which will benefit many of the young people in my constituency , but it must be back by real , targeted action at a neighbourhood level . crime be also concentrate . over 40 % of all antisocial behaviour incident in Blackpool happen in just three area . a 16 - year - old girl tell I recently that everyone she know in the Claremont area carry a knife and be involve in drug or gang , and that it be nearly impossible not to get involve . she say : " Gangs make you feel like you have some sort of power . that ' s the way it be . that ' s Blackpool . " that be not the Blackpool that I know and love . it be the result of community be leave behind and let down for too long . in area where we have focus , however , we have see progress . in the Brunswick ward , thank to the multi - agency Youth ASB working group there have be a 45 % drop in youth - relate incident . the same apply to health . research from the Centre for Coastal Communities show that young people in coastal town such as Blackpool suffer bad health outcome on almost any measure . this be avoidable . thank to local charity such as Counselling in the Community , young people be get support every day . organisation like the Blackpool Boys and Girls Club already do vital work with our young people . this summer local boxing champion Brian Rose will be launch Box Park — a free summer boxing initiative in partnership with MaverickStars to stop young people from engage in ASB in the summer . it be a free event and an initiative I will be take part in . we all know where we need to focus and who need the most help , and we know how to do it : by empower these place , listen to community and target support where it will have the great impact . Blackpool South need the Government to invest in its future , because when Blackpool succeed , Britain succeed . it be a privilege to speak in this summer Adjournment debate — name , of course , in honour of Sir David Amess . Sir David understand the quiet power of Back - Bench mps in this House shine a light on issue that be all too often leave in the shadow . in that same spirit , I rise to speak about Ehlers - Danlos syndrome — a group of rare inherit disorder that affect the body ' s connective tissue . though EDS be officially recognise as affect around one in 5 , 000 people globally , the figure be widely believe to be much high due to misdiagnosis and under - recognition . in the UK it be think that around 460 people in every constituency be live with EDS , yet it remain one of the most misdiagnosed and neglect condition in our healthcare system . one of those 460 people in my constituency be Connor Edwards . I have the chance to meet Connor early this year , and his story have stay with I ever since . a few year ago while mountain biking on Cannock Chase , he be bite by a tick and develop Lyme disease , but Lyme be only part of the story . it turn out that Connor also have EDS — a condition that affect the collagen responsible for support skin , joint , blood vessel and internal organ . for people like Connor , that can mean chronic dislocation , unbearable pain , neurological dysfunction and craniocervical instability , where the skull become unstable and begin to shift on the spine . as a result , Connor ' s head no long sit safely on his spine , and the instability be crush vital area like the brain stem and spinal cord . he live with pain , frequent seizure and a level of disability that have rob he of the life he once love — fishing , mountain biking and simply go outside . he tell I that he feel that his quality of life have be completely shatter . for a man , like I , in his early 30 to be in this position be heartbreaking . it should not be anybody ' s reality in a country as wealthy as ours . the NHS currently offer no treatment for CCI , and it lack both expertise and imaging capability — for example , the upright mri need to diagnose this condition be not available on the NHS . Connor be now crowdfunde £ 50 , 000 to travel to a specialist clinic in Barcelona in the hope of receive lifesave surgery that will fuse his skull to his spine . connor be not alone . accord to Ehlers - Danlos Support UK , it take patient up to 12 year to receive a diagnosis . access to specialist be patchy at good , and those with the mean often turn to private care . those without the mean suffer , deteriorate and navigate a system that do not see they . let we be clear : EDS be not rare . it be rarely diagnose . what begin as a physical health condition can quickly become a mental health crisis . a debate be hold on EDS back in May last year , but the member who speak so powerfully that day never have the opportunity to meet with the then Minister . that can not be where this conversation end . I will be apply to the Backbench Business Committee for a debate on EDS , and I urge colleague across the House to join I in this effort . let we make space for the Connors in every constituency . this be not just about one young man in Cannock . it be about everyone who be wait not only for treatment but for someone to believe they . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I wish you , all hon . member , and especially all parliamentary staff , a restful summer break ? I spend my youth in the grassroots music scene play in band and put on show with my friend . the music be rough , the gear rarely work , and if we get one lonely punter who be not a family member turn up we consider that a win . the DIY music scene be where my journey into politic begin , in a hardcore punk band write song about our disenfranchisement from the world around we ; we be kid express ourselves with electric guitar and microphone . indeed , I often think how many colleague in the House cut their political tooth in the debating chamber of the Oxford Union and other cut theirs on the floor of the Trades Union Congress . I cut mine in a mosh pit , with a microphone in my hand and music in my heart , cover in other people ' s sweat and blow out my vocal cord , scream nonsense like , " the nurse will rise . " when I grow up , a band could release an album and go on tour in medium - sized venue . while they would not necessarily become rich , at least they be able to get by . today , though , with the proliferation of streaming service and the erosion of the value of ticket and merchandise sale , live act can barely break even on music stream , and venue be close . many act operate in pay - to - play environment , lose money every time they play . while pay - to - play be indicative of a fail industry , its existence have long be true in small venue for small band . but I understand that this year Glastonbury be pay - to - play even for some of the big act . indeed , the Independent recently report that one act have spend £ 80 , 000 of their own money on a Glastonbury set while small act be offer just £ 250 to play one of the small stage , and not even give enough ticket to cover the whole band . this be a deeply unsustainable system that freeze out all but those with the private mean to pay their own way . it be kill our creativity . Madam Deputy Speaker , have you notice how in recent year there have be a rise in the number of solo artist and a decline in the number of band ? in my view , the effect be bear out of not only a change in music taste , but simple economic . if a promoter be pay £ 100 to an act to play , a solo act take home £ 100 while a five - piece act scrape by with a measly £ 20 each . I have that experience personally — exactly , in fact , the one time that my band be pay anything for a gig — and it do not even cover our train ticket to the city we play in . as colleague look forward to the summer recess , I would like to make a request of everyone . please go and see a band this summer , preferably in a small venue , and preferably a band you have never hear of . please buy some of their merchandise and tell they they be good , even if they be not — especially if they be not . without Ellie Dixon , there be no Chappell Roan . without not right there be no Bikini Kill , and without Nurse Joy there be no Red Hot Chili Peppers . please support the grassroot — it be everything . the cool speech by far . how do I follow that ? it be an honour to speak in the David Amess debate . I start by congratulate Falmouth town council and Source FM in my constituency for the opening of the resource project this weekend , which will bring community radio and a community caf é to everybody in Falmouth . thank you and good luck to Pendennis Leisure and all those work for a pool for Falmouth . we be try to get money from the Government grassroots fund and other , and we be look for a public - private partnership . local to that be the dock in Falmouth . we be look to restore the Falmouth freight rail line , which have be shut for 20 year , to take 77 lorry off the road on each trip . in Falmouth , we have the dock , Pendennis Yachts and Falmouth Harbour , which all have fantastic expansion plan . we be look to access the port fund to make that happen and bring those new job to the town . I be so pleased with what the Government have achieve on water . a scheme be announce this morning to work on the combine sewer overflow at Queen Mary garden between our two main beach in Falmouth — at last ! I congratulate campaigner include Plastic Free Falmouth Surfers Against Sewage and Goonhavern primary school ' s eco club , who have work so hard for this . I want to say a little about a group in my constituency who have work together and form a support group because they all have endometriosis . David Amess be such a champion for people with endometriosis . we have be work to get training for healthcare worker in that area . as a Co - operative party MP . I welcome community right to buy , which will be forthcoming in the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill . I have constituent want to rescue a methodist chapel and a pub in Ponsanooth , and the Ship Inn in Portloe . the funding source to go with that would be helpful . I look forward to that be announce . to continue the co - operative theme , I have be strongly support the St Mawes community who have be try to build affordable housing for their local community , which have be decimate by second home . I thank Alan Macklin , who have also be involve in the Homes for Ukraine scheme in St Mawes . Falmouth and Penryn Welcome Refugee Families have be do the same thing . I thank Simon Fann and the food bank in Truro and in Falmouth and Penryn . I especially thank Simon for make Cornwall a living wage place , which be a fantastic initiative . I also thank the follow organisation for help their community : the New Beginning Community Association in Malabar ; the friend of Coosebean , the Friends of Daubuz Moor and the Friends of Tregoniggie Woodland , which have be bring green space back to the heart of urban place ; and the Truro Loops campaign , which have be restore active travel route around Truro . I be a new MP and many of those be very new project . I hope to be able to stand here next year , the year after and the year after that and say , " we get some of these thing do . " Meur ras , Madam Deputy Speaker . I start by pay tribute to Sir David Amess . I do not know he personally , but I be move by the reference to his life from across the House and particularly from the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . this debate , in Sir David ' s name , present I with a fantastic opportunity to do something that I so rarely have the chance to do : talk about Cornwall . first , I will speak of the immense opportunity that Cornwall have in its future , recognise by the Labour Government . it be hard to overstate the economic and strategic value of Cornwall ' s vast asset in renewable energy and critical mineral , which be both so clearly fundamental to our economic growth and net zero ambition . in the UK , we import tin from as far afield as the Democratic Republic of the Congo , China and Australia , with all the damaging environmental impact that come with such import . yet in Camborne and Redruth , we sit on the third high - grade tin deposit in the world , and there be plenty of it . that be not just a statistic ; it be a strategic national asset . we have tin , lithium , geothermal and ground source heat , but we be also bless with the opportunity of offshore wind in the Celtic sea , onshore wind , solar and tidal energy . from critical mineral extraction under the ground to wind energy off the coast , Cornwall be ready to play its part in the new economy . the task be vast , but the prize be priceless : energy security , which reduce our dependence on volatile international market ; climate action , which secure the material we need for clean technology ; and job and regeneration in our Cornish , celtic community , which will bring back high - quality employment to community desperate to grasp those opportunity . reduce economic disparity between place come hand in hand with bring opportunity to people , not just raise skill but build community where skill be reward . the renewable energy and critical mineral opportunity be not the only factor that make our land so distinct . our language , culture and heritage , as well as our economic potential , mark we out on this island . I want to ensure that our language , culture and distinctiveness be recognise , respect and reflect in decision make at the heart of Government . that include get a devolution deal that work for Cornwall and that celebrate our national minority status . our language , culture and industrial mining heritage be not just thing we do ; they be who we be , they be part of our landscape and identity , and they have help define who we be , who we be and , I be certain , who we will be . I have define what I strongly believe Cornwall can be , but I want to briefly highlight the barrier that we face . in term of health equality , we struggle with poor health outcome and our remote coastal geography , and those health outcome be connect to poor educational attainment . to that end , I encourage member to join my Adjournment debate in September on Government support for remote coastal community . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , which come at a good time to take stock of my first year serve my constituent in this place . I be extremely grateful to the old hand for their sage advice ; however , there be one piece of advice I be give that I be happy to call out as the bad I have ever take . " Don ' t rush into recruiting staff , " they say . " take some time to work out what you need . " by last autumn , I be bury under so many email that I think I would never have time to sit in this Chamber ever again . I therefore appeal to colleague never to give that advice to new mps ever again . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] once my excellent staff be in place , they work double hard to keep on top of the new inquiry and to clear the backlog , and I thank they . however , I should politely advise the man who regularly send I an email that consist of little more than a Daily Express headline and a link , " I be sorry , but we be unlikely to respond to all your email . " my constituency be an unusual one . it be one of the large seat in the country , and it take in the Solway coast , part of the Lake District national park , two national landscape , and village on the outskirt of Carlisle , Penrith — one of the large town at about 15 , 000 — and seven or eight small town , all very cumbrian , each very different and all point to different service centre . if I be honest , it be hard work make sure I visit all my town and village . my surgery and visit take I all over the constituency , but at time it can feel like I be spread myself very thin . I be sorry if some constituent feel like they do not see enough of I , but I assure they that I be at home in the constituency every week and I be grateful to those live there who reach out and invite I to their event . meeting Cumbria Young Farmers and attend Maryport carnival have be two of the highlight of my year . these be strange time politically . one would think that after secure such a huge majority at the last election , mp like I would be feel quite upbeat . I be not . although I see a Government grasp the nettle on a range of issue that appear to be beyond the political palate of the last government and a desire to secure economic growth and rebalance how limited public money be spend for the well , and although I know that change take time , I also see a public who be struggle and angry . when the public get angry , they reach out for force that feed on that anger and have always feed on that anger . between the email from those tell I I be complicit in the murder of palestinian child or the enabler of pakistani rape gang , I receive email plead with I not to try and be more like Reform and not to try to outdo right - wing populist rhetoric . while I appreciate the frustration of those who send I those email , they rarely suggest an alternative approach . well , here be mine . we accept that we live in a country that be break . we acknowledge that there be people live in dire need of — [ interruption . ] be I out of time ? no way ! I recently meet a Minister who be keen to stress to I that so soon after 14 year of Conservative Government , we must not forget that on these Benches we be still the disruptor . I believe that that be a good lesson for all my hon . friend , especially those on the Front Bench . it be a privilege to contribute to the Sir David Amess debate . Sir David proudly champion Southend and its people , and it be in that spirit that I would like to speak about Sunderland today . to start , Mrs Ann Blakey , the retire headteacher of St Benet ' s roman catholic school in my constituency , have for 20 year work with love at the heart of that fantastic , warm community school . she be adore by pupil , staff and parent alike , and I pay tribute to she today and wish she a very happy retirement . I also want to take this opportunity to thank all teacher across Sunderland Central for the work they have do for our young people this year , and to wish they a well - deserve summer break . I say in my maiden speech in October that Sunderland be a city on the up . well , promise make , promise deliver . it feel like it be yesterday that we be at Wembley watch Tommy Watson score the late winner in the play - off final , which mean we be now on the eve of be back in the premier league . sunderland fan be spend the summer ponder all the big question . with our embarrassment of rich , who will we start on the right wing ? when will Chris Rigg score his first premier league goal ? and how loudly will eliezer Mayenda ' s view on Sam Fender echo around St James ' s Park ? I know that the Minister will not be able to answer all of those key question , but I hope she will join I in wish Sunderland AFC well for the new season and in celebrate the passing of the Football Governance Act 2025 to protect the health of our national game , despite the shameful opposition of Reform and conservative mp . since I be elect , my priority have be invest in Sunderland . there be such a buzz around the city , with crane in the sky , business announce they be move job to Riverside Sunderland , the new Keel crossing opening and the woman ' s rugby world cup . government decision be bring further investment , rebalancing council and NHS spending . I will continue to work publicly and privately to bring further investment into Sunderland — in our neighbourhood , in our music and creative industry and in our public service . one facility that have receive investment , but that we have have incredible frustration with , be Sunderland station . eighteen month after opening , the facility still do not work , and it be simply not good enough . I eagerly await the work by Northern and Network Rail to deliver the improvement they have assure I will be make so that the station become rather less like an empty warehouse and more like the vibrant hub that our city deserve . with that , I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , all the House staff and colleague a very happy summer recess . it be an honour to speak in this debate in memory of David Amess . like Jo Cox , he be murder in a previous Parliament , and I know many hon . member miss his friendship deeply — may his memory be a blessing . Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket be a beautiful constituency . member will of course be aware that its namesake , St Edmund , be until the 14th century the patron saint of England . he rule East Anglia between 855 and 869 ad until he be kill by vike raider . they shoot arrow into he until he bristle like a hedgehog , then cut off his head and throw it into the forest . however , when they find his head , it miraculously reattache to his body . this be one of his miracle . it be my hope that when we elect a mayor for East Anglia next May , the new mayor will choose Bury St Edmunds as the site of his new office . since be elect , I have secure funding for the construction of the much - need new West Suffolk hospital and save the Marham Park flyer and the 73 and 73a bus route , as well as secure £ 9 million of additional funding for local bus . we have sort out £ 11 million for the pothole , and Station Hill in Bury St Edmunds be no long call pothole alley . we get fund to fix the GP surgery in Ixworth , fix the dangerous Fishwick corner in Thurston , and open breakfast club in Howard academy and the Priory school . free breakfast club be particularly important . in Stowmarket , we have the brilliant Food Museum , which be run an exhibition right now call " School Dinners " . I visit last week with my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . we sample flan , new potato and bean follow by delicious sponge and custard . free school meal and breakfast club will be one of the most important thing that this government do to help work family . now we be about to break for our summer recess . all we new mp have be learn on the job and , as I have just discover , I have more to learn than many . I wish all my new friend — all 649 of they — a wonderful summer recess and hope that everyone get a good rest . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it have be a privilege to speak in this debate honour the legacy of Sir David Amess — an MP who tirelessly advocate for his constituent . I could feel how all colleague who have speak be also deeply passionate about their community , and it be a privilege to be part of the debate . Sir David Amess ' s Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act 2000 be ahead of its time in recognise that action on energy poverty and environmental policy be two side of the same coin . today , I want to speak in that same spirit about one of the define challenge of our time : the climate and nature emergency . despite the suggestion from Reform mp and some conservative that policy on the environment be a waste of governmental time and money , resident from across my Guildford constituency have speak clearly , urgently and passionately about the crisis face our environment . what be strike be not just how much people care , but how much they believe that the Government be fall short . sixty - five per cent of Surrey resident do not think the Government be do enough on climate and nature . polling by Surrey county council ' s resident insight unit show that climate change and environmental policy consistently rank in the top five public concern , alongside healthcare and NHS privatisation . the determination to see action begin young , as be clear when my constituent from Burpham primary school write to I recently about their concern about deforestation and the heartbreaking loss of animal , bird and plant that come with it . they understand that cut down tree fuel global warming , destroy animal habitat and wipe out potential medical solution that could one day save human life . tormead school eco club write to I about the challenge of sewage pollution in our waterway — one of our country ' s most shameful current environmental failure . although I welcome the pledge to halve sewage pollution by 2030 , action be happen far too slowly , but collectively we can do well . community action group such as Zero Carbon Guildford be do the kind of work in my constituency that we should back at a national level . Zero Carbon , in work with the Water Rangers and the River Wey Trust , regularly test our precious waterway to monitor sewage pollution . nearly 500 resident be train in citizen science , nine water - test hub be now active , and a new community water lab have be open , in partnership with the University of Surrey in my constituency . that be proof that local people be not just wait for change ; they be make it . but they should not have to do it alone . they tell I that they want the Government to match their urgency . they want visible leadership on nature protection , tough law to stop sewage pollute our river , green space protect from poor planning decision and support to make their home warm and cheap to run . on that point , the evidence already show that insulate and retrofitting home could slash energy demand by the equivalent of six nuclear power station . it could cut household bill by a quarter , save the NHS £ 1 . 5 billion a year , and prevent nearly 10 , 000 death cause by cold and damp housing annually . this be not just an environmental policy ; it be a health and cost of live policy , too . I say to colleague across the House that if resident be that engaged and schoolchildren be that active , what excuse do we have not to act with a level of urgency match theirs ? I will end by highlight one of the most visible way in which we can lead : by support sustainable transport . resident be ask for well , green transport option . they want join - up infrastructure that serve people , not just car . that be why I be push for a new train station in Guildford , and I be call for the Government ' s support to make that happen . Guildford ' s resident have be wait for more than a decade for a decision on that . give the major housing development take place locally , the appetite among local business and resident for greener way to travel , and the Government ' s commitment to rail travel , I say simply that now be the time . let this summer recess not be a pause in our work but a call to action for when we return . let we deliver the clean air , safe street and low - carbon transport system that community be call for . if we do not act , we be not just fail future generation ; we be fail this one . I hope that we have the restorative recess that we all need , particularly those of we who have spend our first year in this place . I say an enormous thank you to all the staff across the House , whether they work for we or help to make the House function . without they , we would not be able to serve our resident in the way we do . I wish everyone a very good recess . I call the shadow Minister . it be a great pleasure to close the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . although I do not have the privilege of know Sir David personally , I have hear time and again from colleague across the House about the warmth , generosity and conviction that define he . he be remember not only with great affection but with admiration for his tireless commitment to his constituent and the cause that he champion . his ability to weave so many of those cause into these end - of - term debate become something of a parliamentary tradition in itself — and stand as a lasting example of what it mean to be a true local champion . that this debate now bear his name feel entirely fitting . it offer member the same opportunity that he so clearly value to test idea , highlight local concern and give voice to the community we represent . I have no doubt that Sir David would have listen to today ' s contribution with great interest and enthusiasm . while we rightly pay tribute to Sir David and reflect on his remarkable contribution to public life , we must also acknowledge the difficult but necessary question surround the circumstance of his death , as many right hon . and hon . member have say . Sir David ' s widow , Lady Julia , and their daughter , Katie , who be with we today in the Public Gallery , have show great strength in their effort to ensure that meaningful lesson be learn . Sir David ' s murderer have previously be refer to the Prevent programme . yet despite that , he go on to commit an abhorrent act of violence . in the year since , other case , such as those in Reading and Southport , have raise similar concern , as individual know to Prevent be able to carry out attack . those be not isolate incident ; there be a pattern that warrant serious scrutiny , and the opposition would like to see a full public inquiry into Prevent , bring together those case to understand what go wrong and how the system can be improve . the Prevent programme be an essential part of our national security framework , but it must be effective to command public confidence . where there be systemic failing , we have a responsibility to address they . as the Government will know , the Amess family do not feel that the recently release Lord Anderson report alone deliver the whole truth , accountability or justice that be need . it be imperative that a full public inquiry be commission , to learn the necessary lesson from the systemic issue that clearly exist . I take this opportunity to ask the Government to commit to a full public inquiry into the failing of the Prevent programme . I now move on to the fantastic contribution we have hear from member across the House in this final debate before we break up for the summer recess . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) do a brilliant job of open the debate . he mention Sir David Amess manage to raise 27 different topic within five minute . in my hon . friend ' s speech , we have the middle east , the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , schooling , pothole and crime — near to 27 , but no cigar this time . the hon . member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) talk about mining and industry , health and transport . over the past year , I have see that she be a fierce campaigner for her constituent , and I join she in thank the school staff in her constituency . the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , speak with conviction about his friend Sir David Amess . he call out the service failing in the Prevent programme and the poor treatment of Sir David ' s family . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response and hope to see the Government take action on this matter . I thank the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for his kind word about Sir David . he raise the dangerous effect of hepatitis C and the work need to eradicate it . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , my shadow defence team friend , do a fantastic job of open this debate a year ago , which I enjoy attend . he pay tribute to his good friend , Sir David . have watch my right hon . friend over the past year , I have learn a great deal . he be a tireless campaigner for his area , and it be brilliant to hear he talk about supermarket and devolution . the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) talk about sure Start , green job and the importance of the northern industrial powerhouse . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) talk about housing management company . we all face that issue , especially in my constituency of Exmouth and Exeter East , and I look forward to work with he over the come year to ensure there be proper accountability . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) make the really important point that Sir David Amess show we that " politic at its good be about service , not spectacle " — I will use that one . the hon . member talk about he and his team make 200 visit in their first year ; it have obviously be a very busy year for they . my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) talk about the important work he be do on the renovation of this building . I think we all know that our place of work need restoration — there be significant fire risk and security risk — and I look forward to that debate happen , so that we can have a national conversation . I be keen to reference as many colleague as possible , so I will speed up from a canter to a gallop . the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) share a story about his late friend , Julian , and Sir David ' s true friendship and compassion to Julian . the hon . member be a strong voice for his constituent . I do not think I have ever hear he talk about be a teacher , but I look forward to that . the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) talk about one of his predecessor be tragically murder . he say he have mention Eastbourne 200 time this year — the number 200 must be on everyone ' s mind at the moment — so I congratulate he on that . the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) champion local business in her area . my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) talk about the issue of access to cash in his constituency . I be run a similar campaign in my constituency , and I be sure that many other member who have see bank closure in their constituency will be look for banking hub . the hon . member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) speak about local health service . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) speak powerfully about his dear friend , Sir David Amess , and call for a public inquiry into the Prevent programme . the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) pay tribute to read football club and speak about the redevelopment of a local disused jail . I look forward to visit once it be up and run — hopefully not because I have be incarcerate . the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) speak about upgrade river infrastructure . the hon . member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) talk about our fantastic Lionesses and local football in her constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , who I have learn a lot from over the last year , talk about child ' s mental health service in his constituency . that be another debate that I think we will have to have next year to talk about the link with the mental health crisis . we have have fantastic contribution from the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) , for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) , for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) , for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , for Rugby ( John Slinger ) , for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) and for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) . a really interesting point be raise , again inspire by Sir David Amess , about the fact that we be fleeting custodian of our constituency . the service that Sir David Amess bring to this House over so many decade be a north star for we all to aim for . I express my condolence to the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on the loss of his father - in - law . I hope that he and his family be do as well as possible . we also hear many interesting contribution from the hon . member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) , for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) and for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) — I look forward to see video hopefully emerge in the come week and month of he rock out in mosh pit . we hear from the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) and for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) , my neighbour in Cornwall , which be the next county along from my constituency . we hear from the hon . member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) , for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) and for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , who make a fantastic final contribution to the debate . the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket be a respected surgeon , and it have be really interesting to watch he bring forward health matter and enrich the debate in this Chamber . before I close , I place on record my sincere thank to all those who have support we in this parliamentary year . I thank the House of Commons staff , include the Doorkeepers , the caterer , the Clerks and the event co - ordinator . their professionalism and quiet dedication behind the scene allow this place to function with such efficiency and dignity , and I hope that their work be never take for grant . I be sure that all member from across the House will join I in show their appreciation for everything that they do not just today , but every day . let I offer special congratulation to two member of the Doorkeepers ' team who work in member ' Lobby , Holly Jackson and Vanessa Chapman , who be soon to be marry . I know the whole House will join I in wish they every happiness as they begin their married life together . I have one final remark : I pay tribute to Paul Kehoe , who be in his 45th year of service to this House . just like David Amess , that be a true north star for what public service look like . that leave I to wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all colleague from across the House a very restful and happy summer recess . I look forward to see everyone again in the autumn . far too smooth . I call the Minister . I be honour to close this final debate of the term from the Government Dispatch Box . as a Government Whip , I do not often have the opportunity to speak in this Chamber , so it be a genuine privilege to be respond for the first time in this way . I be usually the one lurk just out of shot , mutter about speak limit and timing , so stand here feel just a little risky . I promise I will not abuse that privilege — much , anyway . I be proud to be part of this Parliament , which contain the large number of woman ever elect . we still have a way to go ; I be only the 479th female ever to be elect to this place , and it be strike to think that all those woman who come before I would not even have fill this Parliament . this debate have be reflective , respectful , and unite by share value . we have come together to remember what truly matter in public life , and in do so , we honour the memory of Sir David Amess , a man whose life of service embody the spirit of this place . he be a parliamentarian whose good humour and deep commitment to his constituent win he respect from all side of the House . we have hear some powerful speech , and I would like to pay tribute to some of they . I commend the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for bring forward this debate , and in particular for the work that he have do to raise the issue of the plight of the hostage take on 7 October 2023 , and the horrific attack on innocent civilian in Gaza . those responsible must be hold to account . he raise many other issue ; I will not go through they , but I will ensure that the appropriate Ministers write to he to answer his question . my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) be a strong champion for her constituency . she rightly point out the importance of bus service to her constituent . our bus Bill , which I know she be proud of , will allow leader to take back control . the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) seek well transport connection , which be something that the Transport Secretary also have high on her agenda . the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , pay an emotional tribute to Sir David Amess , as do the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , and of course my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) . they mention the huge impact that event have have on Sir David ' s family , and I will make sure that all their comment and suggestion be take up by the relevant Government Ministers . our thought continue to be with Sir David ' s family and friend . my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) speak about World Hepatitis Day , which be on 28 July . I pay tribute to he for his campaign to raise awareness of that disease . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) champion job and opportunity in her constituency , especially the job of the future , and those in the offshore renewable sector . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) speak about the real - life impact that a Labour Government be have on young people in his constituency , include through the roll - out of free breakfast club . he invite a Minister to visit his town centre , and I know that many would take he up on that offer , myself include . however , he be compete with the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , who invite we all to visit his wonderful constituency — he be a great advert for summer holidaying there . the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) raise the important matter of the restoration and renewal of this place . I will ensure that his comment reach the Leader of the House , but many of those issue be matter for the House , rather than the Government . my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) be a huge champion for his constituent , and I be sure that the phrase " Oxford - Cambridge - Harlow corridor " will catch on . I be impressed that my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) have complete her 200th small business Saturday — I offer her congratulation on that mammoth commitment . access to banking service and hub form a central part of the speech make by the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , and I know that be an interest share by member across the House . we be accelerate the roll - out of those banking hub . my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) speak about the importance of inclusive education , and I share her passion . she recognise that have a Labour Government bring that change to young people . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) rightly praise the Football Governance Bill , which would have prevent read football club from suffer its fate . we look forward to a well season for they — but not too good when they play against Cardiff . the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) raise the issue of active travel and its importance to his constituent . I be pleased that the Government be prioritise that . my hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) speak passionately about her constituency , and be rightly proud that it be home to the first official Lionesses match . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) on her work locally and her campaign , but also on her ability to speak from her depth of experience about the horror unfold in Gaza . those horror must stop . the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) speak with his usual eloquence , and I know his constituency well and understand the challenge his constituent face , as do this Government . I be fascinated to learn of the history of the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) and , through the roman dig , of its place as a strategic stronghold . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) and his father - in - law , and I offer my hon . friend condolence on behalf of the Government . my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) rightly mention tackle antisocial behaviour , which will continue to be a priority for this Government . my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) tell we about cut his tooth in a hard rock / punk band and be in a mosh pit . I be sure that there be similarity we could draw with this place , but I will not even go there . my hon . friend the Members for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , and for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) , rightly boast of the rich of Cornwall , and my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) speak of his pride in all his town and village , and the struggle to meet and talk to everyone there . equally passionate be my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) ; I wish Sunderland AFC well for next season . unless Cardiff seriously up their game , I do not see they in play - off any time soon . my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) say that free breakfast club be a game changer for his constituent , and my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) demonstrate that she be a huge champion for her constituency by ensure that every book print by Amazon in Dunstable say that it be print there . that be commitment , and it be impressive . I could go on . we have have fantastic contribution . the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) , my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) , the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Rugby ( John Slinger ) , for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) and for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) all pay huge tribute to the work of their constituent and organisation in their constituency . I will be brief as I be conscious of time , but if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be only one way for a Welsh Member of Parliament to close this debate , and that be by talk about Wales . for the first time in a generation , Wales have two Labour government , in Cardiff and Westminster , pull in the same direction . I can tell Members that it be make a difference . together we be rebuild our economy , create good job , drive down nhs waiting list , and deliver the big investment in Welsh rail — £ 445 million to connect our community and open up opportunity , include in my constituency of Cardiff North . when labour govern at both end of the M4 , the priority of the Welsh people be not just hear , but deliver . that be the power of partnership . I do say I would not get too partisan , but the contrast be clear ; the Tories and Reform be fight for the next clickbait headline . I wonder what surprise we will hear over the summer recess . perhaps it will be the publication of Reform ' s first fantasy novel , because that be the only place its funding calculation belong . perhaps we will have a Tory leadership contest , because we have not have one of those yet this year . meanwhile , we be get on with the job . we have deliver 4 million extra NHS appointment , recruit 3 , 000 extra police officer , establish Great British Energy , recruit nearly 2 , 000 GPs , step in to save British Steel , secure a well deal for the worker of Port Talbot , bring forward a Bill on employment right , open free breakfast club and ban bonus for water boss . wage have grow more in the first 10 month than in the last 10 year of the Tory Government . there be a lot do and a whole lot more still to do . that be the change we be elect on last year . as President Obama once say : " Change will not come if we wait for some other person or some other time … we be the change that we seek . " we know that in this place nothing would happen without the myriad people behind the scene . I express my gratitude to the House staff , include the Doorkeepers , the cleaner , the Clerks , catering , security , broadcasting , Hansard and those in visitor experience , as well as our staff and constituency team . mine be sit up in the Gallery today , so I thank they , as well as my mother , who be with they . I also thank the civil servant . all these people come together to help make this place function . I congratulate two of our wonderful Doorkeepers , Holly and Vanessa , on their upcoming wedding . on behalf of the whole House , I wish they a long and happy marriage . of course , our thank also go to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to Mr Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers . as we rise for the summer recess , I offer my good wish to all , and I hope that everyone will enjoy the good possible summer break . I call Bob Blackman to wind up the debate . we have have a wonderful debate , to which 38 Back Benchers have contribute , and we have also hear three excellent Front - Bench speech . if I may say so , the hon . member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) may be look forward to the reshuffle that , it be rumour , may take place over the summer ; we may hear more of she in the Chamber , rather than outside it . the House be , of course , rise for the summer recess . some people think that we be all go off on a long holiday . far from it : we will all be go back to our constituency and do work for our constituent , as be right and proper . we will be give young people opportunity to serve with we , while we be give opportunity to see more of our constituent . however , I hope that everyone will have a well - earn rest and a proper break . I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and Mr Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers — and , indeed , the entirety of the staff who support we — a very happy recess . I hope we can use the opportunity this summer to do more of the work that need to be do in this Chamber and beyond to ensure that the House be fit and ready for the visitor who want to come and see the work that we do , but let we have a good recess , let we hope for a bright future as a result , and let we look forward to come back in the autumn , refresh and ready for the political fight . order . as we know , the Doorkeepers know and see everything , and I need to correct the record , because an error be make early by the shadow Minister . Paul Kehoe have actually serve here for 46 year , not 45 . let I briefly put on record that I miss David Amess a lot . he would come into my office with a toasted teacake and a cup of tea and check that I be ok . it never occur to I that I have to check that he be go to be ok in one of his surgery . I thank the Doorkeepers , the wonderful Clerks , everyone in the Speaker ' s Office , and my fabulous team — in particular , Pavlina Aburn , Alison Dobson and Abigail Curry — who will keep I busy this summer , work in my constituency , just like all other member . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . petition - Future of Wingfield Manor this petition relate to the future of Wingfield Manor , and be present in conjunction with Derbyshire Historic Buildings Trust . it have be sign by more than 3 , 000 resident of Derbyshire , and state : the petition of resident of Amber Valley and the wide Derbyshire area , declare that the future of Wingfield Manor should be conserve and that it should be make accessible to visitor once more ; note that the ruin of Wingfield Manor be a scheduled monument on which the government of 1960 place a guardianship order , recognise its historical significance ; further note that the Manor , build in the 15th Century , be say to have inspire the architecture of Hampton Court and serve as a backdrop to the infamous Babington Plot when its most famous resident , Mary Queen of Scots , be imprison ; far declare that the Manor have be under the care of English Heritage but it be privately own and soon to be put up for sale ; and far declare that this present a unique opportunity which be currently on Historic England ' s Heritage at Risk Register . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate step to secure the future of Wingfield Manor and ensure it be , once again , accessible to visitor and available for future generation to enjoy . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003102 ] petition - Leatside Pharmacy I rise on behalf of resident of Totnes to present a petition concern the closure of Leatside pharmacy , formerly base at Leatside gp surgery , and I declare that I be a patient . since the closure , many resident have face long wait time and struggle to obtain prescription and advice , and the surgery have be sorely impact by the loss . a separate petition on change . org have gather over 3 , 000 signature , represent the strength of local feeling . both constituent and doctor have contact I to express the urgent need for a pharmacy at the surgery to support its work and local health need . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with NHS England to prioritise the reopening of a pharmacy at Leatside GP Surgery to ensure timely , accessible , and reliable pharmaceutical care for the resident of Totnes . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Totnes , declare that the closure of the Leatside Pharmacy , locate at the Leatside GP Surgery in Totnes , have significantly impact local access to essential NHS pharmacy service ; far declare that many resident — especially old people and those with mobility challenge — now face increase travel distance and long wait time to access prescription and pharmacy advice ; note that ongoing issue with alternative local pharmacy have highlight the urgent need to reopen the pharmacy at Leatside GP Surgery ; and note separate online and paper petition on the same issue have generate over 3000 signature demonstrate local support for this campaign . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with NHS England to prioritise the reopening of a pharmacy at Leatside GP Surgery to ensure timely , accessible , and reliable pharmaceutical care for the resident of Totnes . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003103 ] Petition - UK Government Relations with Israel I rise to present a petition concern the UK Government ' s relation with Israel . it be join by 354 signature from a parallel petition collect by campaigner for Palestine in York , who have have a presence in our city for the last 30 year , but never at a time when the scale of violation and barbaric act against civilian , include child , have be so catastrophic . the petition recognise the genocide against the Palestinians , which must end immediately . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to immediately cut off all military and economic relation with Israel . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that there be a genocide take place in Palestine . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to immediately cut off all military and economic relation with Israel . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003105 ] change Places Toilets Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to open this debate on a subject that I care deeply about . last Saturday , 19 July , be change Places Awareness Day . it be therefore an honour to have secure this debate and to be able to pay tribute to the campaign organisation change place in its 20th year , and in a week when it have work to remind the nation of the importance of its campaign . during this time , it have work relentlessly to seek provision for the quarter of a million people in the UK who have for so long have no public access to accessible toilet facility , and for their family and carer . change Places toilet enable anyone , regardless of their disability , to go to the shop , attend hospital appointment , enjoy community life , socialise and travel . many of we in this place and , indeed , across the UK take this basic necessity and right for grant every day . my friend Denise Deakin campaign to get more change place toilet 20 year ago , so it would be remiss of I not to mention she in this debate . over the weekend , I speak to Faye from Talke and Jane from Burslem , in my constituency , and they tell I that the difference such toilet make be life - change . one say , " for I and my family , it ' s the difference between live your life or close down your world . " do my hon . friend agree that we have to do all we can to enhance and get more of these facility across the whole of the country ? absolutely . as I will turn to , I know that at first hand as the parent of a child with cerebral palsy . the growth of change place mean that it be make an impact , but the fact be that we need more of these toilet across the country . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this debate . I speak to he beforehand to get an idea of what he be try to achieve , and I want to congratulate he on his campaign — well do ! every one of we in our constituency wish we have someone push as hard as he be with his campaign . I say that because in Northern Ireland we have only 1 . 4 change place toilet per 100 , 000 people , which mean we rank the second low in the UK after London . the hon . Gentleman be do so much here , and we have a lot to learn . some 7 , 000 people in Northern Ireland require additional room for assistance and support when use public restroom facility . do the hon . Gentleman agree that , give that this issue impact thousand across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we must ensure that enough change place toilet be provide in all nation for all people with disability ? absolutely , and I thank the hon . member . as I will come on to say , we have see such growth , particularly in central London , but that need to be replicate across the United Kingdom . access to a change Places toilet allow anyone , regardless of their access need or disability , to use a toilet with dignity , privacy and hygienically . do my hon . friend agree that accessible toilet keep people out long , encourage spending , make town more inclusive , and be critical for retail , tourism and local growth ? when council close they , disabled people and young family just stay at home . do he agree that it be short - sighted of the conservative council in North Warwickshire to fail to fulfil its promise to reopen accessible toilet in Atherstone town centre ? we need more change place toilet up and down this country so that everyone , regardless of their ability or who their child be , can make the most of their day out . absolutely , and I thank my hon . friend for those comment . again , I will come on to talk about a toilet that be close in my own constituency and the impact that have . I will try to make some progress for a moment . change Places toilet be specifically design for people with profound and multiple disability and their carer , who need more space and equipment than a standard accessible toilet provide . the feature include height - adjustable adult - sized change bench , ceiling track hoist and space for multiple carer , ensure a safe and dignified experience . the change Places consortium be establish 20 year ago , as I have say , and at the heart of its campaign , which be initiate by the late Loretto Lambe , the founder and chief executive of PAMIS — promote a More Inclusive Society — be the aim to ensure the growth of change place across the country . I wish to pay tribute to the work of change place staff and volunteer , lead by Jenny Miller and Karen Hoe , and their vital support in ensure this debate could be bring to the House . currently , the total number of active and register change Places toilet be 2 , 609 span the UK and service leisure centre , city and town centre , shopping centre , venue , hospital , transport hub , stadium and attraction . last year , 414 new change Places be instal across the UK , the high number of annual registration ever . I want to add a personal note of thank to my hon . friend for be such an outstanding advocate for family such as ours . we share a strong union on that point . do he agree that it be not enough just to have a change place facility , because it be also important for staff in those area to have have training so that they know how to direct people to it ? I reflect on that the other weekend when we go to a splash park , have see that it have a change place facility , which be amazing . however , when we ask the person open the caf é , who allow we to go in , how we could access the change Places facility , they just do not know , which make it inaccessible . do he agree that it be so important that training be give to staff where there be a change place facility , so that they can adequately direct people to it ? I agree absolutely with my hon . friend . we work very closely together on these issue , as parent of disabled child . I will turn to such training in relation to some of my own horror story in due course . in May , PAMIS announce that it be update its change Places practical guidance , a resource that help support the design and management of change place toilet . I think I miss out that there be 799 toilet 10 year ago , so there have be significant growth since that time . I should also note the change make by the previous Government when they amend the Building Regulations 2010 , under which it be now compulsory for some new large building to have change place toilet instal in they . in addition , a change Places toilet fund of £ 30 . 5 million be make available in 2023 , which have provide 600 change place across England . I have see the real impact that that growth have have in London and the home county as a south - east London MP . I see that now in central London , as compare with 10 year ago , in train station , at cultural venue , along the South Bank and , very recently , in Oxford Street . the Need2Change campaign , spearhead by Bromley resident Katrina o ' Leary who I work with before I be elect to this place , have allow an increase in toilet in park , hospital and coastal town to ensure her family , my family and other family can have the day out that other take for grant . I thank my hon . friend for give way and I congratulate he on secure this important debate . it be typically human - focused , compassionate and decent , which sum he up in every way . will he join I in highlight the current change place toilet in Newcastle - under - Lyme at Keele service on the M6 southbound , Morrisons , the Jubilee 2 gym and sport centre , and our local library ? that be four , but we need many more and government have an important role to play in make that happen . I thank my hon . friend . I absolutely agree . we have see that growth , but we need to see more . I thank my hon . friend for give way . I be very sad to report that there be no change place toilet in my constituency on the website — not a single one . I believe that , actually , Congleton leisure centre do have a change place toilet , and I believe that Ruby ' s Fund also have a very extensive disabled - facilitate toilet , although not to change Places standard . do he agree that , when I have a constituency of 90 , 000 people , with four town and multiple village , that be an appalling state of affair and we need to do well ? I thank my hon . friend . I be happy to work with she and her local authority to bring site forward . I will now talk about my own family ' s experience and , in particular , about education . I fully accept that not every disability be visible . many people who may appear not to have a disability do require a change place toilet , for instance if they have a colostomy bag and require extra space for toilete . for those who need a change place toilet , the current system can be very frustrating . the main way of find where one be locate be through the excellent search location tool and map — this be just refer to — on the change place website . there be a separate app , but it be not run by change place — it be run by a third party — and so be not as up to date . the information on the change Places website can only be up to date if the provider of the toilet advise of any change in availability . I could give a litany of experience , as could my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) , of where thing have sadly not work . one of our daughter have quadriplegic cerebral palsy . she be a wheelchair user . she be unable to tell you when she need the toilet and be still in nappy at almost 12 year of age . give her height and weight , a change bed be essential to change she with dignity . before we be aware of the change Places website , we sadly have the indignity of change she in a variety of place , such as on a bench or behind a bush to try to give she some dignity . our fallback today remain the floor of our wheelchair - accessible van , which I can assure you be a backbreaker . since we have be aware of the change Places map facility , we plan our day out , trip and travel arrangement around it and where we believe there will be a toilet . it have be a life changer for our family and , as we have hear , for other family . there be occasion where , because the information have not be update or because of a lack of training on what change place toilet be , we have have some experience that have be not so great : find that the only change place toilet in the place you be visit have be close because it be vandalise ; find that the change place toilet in a building be not available , as it be be use as a storage cupboard ; have a council staff member refuse someone , who clearly can not walk and be clearly in nappy , access to the change place toilet on the ground that they be a child and should therefore use a baby change table , even when it be clear that their height , and particularly their weight , would break the table ; find , because it be winter , that the council have close the toilet entirely or , when visit a busy coastal city , that it close at 4 pm — because clearly disabled people do not need to use the toilet after 4 pm ! I have see some terrible training of staff in train station and in public building , where they do not understand what a change Places toilet be . on numerous occasion , I have be tell that because my daughter be a wheelchair user she should use the standard disabled toilet , with no understanding that she can not stand and there be no hoist in a standard disabled toilet , and that if someone use nappy , you might need a bed to change they . there be one occasion in a central London train station when a toilet attendant make everyone , regardless of which toilet they require , join one queue because their objective be reduce the queue length , rather than ensure that the people who be able to use the only toilet available to they , do so . as we stand patiently at about number 50 in the queue , 49 people in front of we who do not need the change place toilet be , in turn , direct to it . there be , however , some fantastic instance of staff ensure that those try to use these toilet as a baby change room — which happen a lot — do not do so , and example of fantastic signage explain what a change Places toilet be intend for . along with the people who believe a change Places toilet be , in fact , a large baby change facility , one other issue that can cause problem be the easy availability of RADAR key , which be often purchase on the internet or in high street shop . I be afraid that some people do buy they as a way of skip toilet queue . in a number of place , include in Bexleyheath town centre in my constituency , the use of a RADAR key have lead to people sleep on the change bed , and someone move themselves and all their belonging into the toilet . my council take the decision to close the toilet because of the repeat damage cause by the person who keep move into it , although I would argue that the council be clearly not maintain it adequately , give that someone have be live in it for several week before my own wife discover that they be live there . those issue persist , and we therefore need to have a conversation about training , about spread good practice on signage and about different entry system , which a number of change place toilet now have . those thing would greatly reduce the stress for those who genuinely need a change place toilet . will my hon . friend give way ? very quickly — you have have your go already . [ laughter . ] I very much appreciate my hon . friend give way again . do he agree that when you go somewhere and you be unable to access adequate facility to change your child , the message that be send to you and your family be , " you be not welcome here . we do not want you . " ? conversely , when you go somewhere that have a change place facility , you feel welcomed and part of the community . that be absolutely the case . we will visit the same place for day out and we know our routine in central London , because we know where we will be welcome and where we have have those bad experience , which I have mention . we do , of course , also need to consider this place . we have a change place toilet in the Lower Waiting Hall , which be of the very old , original standard . it be therefore difficult to hoist somebody on to the bed , give how low the ceiling be . there be , however , no facility for visitor to Portcullis House , which be something we need to consider go forward . in my constituency , there be one change place toilet , locate in the Broadway shopping centre , but we need more . Hall Place would be a fantastic place to have one , give that it be the premier cultural attraction and open space in my constituency . there be four change place toilet in my constituency , which , give that it be one of England ' s large constituency , still feel very inadequate . do my hon . friend agree that one sector where we would definitely benefit from more change place toilet be in our visitor attraction ? do he support my call for English Heritage to increase the number of change place facility on its estate ? I absolutely agree . as my hon . Friend say , I be pretty sure that there be some in her constituency , but we do need to expand that . have those facility on the south bank have make such an impact culturally , I can tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have just two change place toilet in my constituency , which be semi - rural and quite large . one be at Elvaston castle country park , so I ask my hon . friend to put that on his list of place to come and visit . I open my constituency office only once I have a disabled access toilet , but it just feel like such a halfway house . do my hon . friend agree that two change place toilet for a constituency as large as South Derbyshire be far from adequate ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , who have one more than I in her constituency . we do need to expand the number that we have . I recently meet member of my local Bexley Mencap , who raise with I the need for a change place toilet in one of my borough ' s swimming pool . we have three swimming pool in my local authority area , and it can be very difficult for member to change themselves . however , campaigning can work . for many year , I have question the rationale of Eurotunnel LeShuttle have a change place toilet in folkestone but not have one for the very same customer in Calais . I accept that change place toilet be very uncommon in France — in fact , I could count they on one hand . however , after many year of be tell that one could not be provide in Calais , I have be advise in the past month that one will be supply , although Eurotunnel be be vague about the installation date . those customer will now finally be able to use a change place toilet on both leg of their journey . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) want to be here to pay tribute to her constituent Zack Kerr , from Oswaldtwistle , who have be campaign for additional change place facility since 2017 . Zack have cerebral palsy and , because of his first - hand experience , have be instrumental in the building of 54 new toilet across motorway service station in England . my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) relay to I that the change place toilet in Bingley town centre have be a life - changer . it be really well maintain and be clean twice a day , which can be important for child with complex condition who be susceptible to infection . with twice - daily cleaning it be also much less likely that somebody will move in there for several week . I continue to aspire to see a national disability travel app that show accessible train station and interchange , and flag up when lift be out of order and where there be a change place toilet . we must ensure that we do what we can to expand the provision of accessible toilet , particularly change place toilet , to public building , park and community facility . I be very grateful to hon . member for their contribution this afternoon . I encourage they to engage with their local authority and stakeholder group , and impress on they the importance of change place toilet so that all our constituent can have access to a clean , safe and accessible facility . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I wish you a very happy summer recess . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) for secure this debate and for set such a beautiful tone at the start of his speech . he speak with enormous power as a parent of a child with cerebral palsy who require full - time care , and also as someone who have a very long record — before his time in this place — of work with local parent group and national organisation such as Scope and the change Places campaign . I know that there will be people watch this debate who relate strongly to the experience he talk about , and the experience that my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) talk about . by bring those people into this debate , he will have give they such a sense of peace . he do so with such power , and I pay tribute to he for that . his message , which I double underline , be that campaign work , and I wish to show that , as a Government , we be bring that spirit to bear as well , because this be such an important issue . I be proud to have be a long - stand supporter of the change place toilet campaign — long before my time in this Parliament . I have never officially be the toilet Minister , but I have speak it into existence by tell anyone who will listen what I think . it be a simple truth that access to toilet — change place in this case , and standard public facility — be about dignity , independence , inclusion and ensure that everyone , regardless of their need , can fully participate in their community . no one , as my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock say , should ever get the message — explicitly or implicitly — that they be not welcome in their own community . we know that for many people , especially those with complex need or health condition , the lack of appropriate toilet provision can be the decide factor in whether they leave the House , visit the town centre or spend time with friend and family in their community . without suitable facility , what should be a normal day out can become a source of stress , exclusion and even risk , and we do not want that for anybody in our community . that be the spirit not only of my hon . friend ' s speech , but of all the contribution from our colleague . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government have do remarkable work through the £ 30 . 5 million change place toilet programme . I have in the past recognise the work of the previous Prime Minister in this space , and I would like to do so again . these facility provide the equipment , the space and the security need by more than 250 , 000 people across the UK — people for whom standard accessible toilet be simply not suitable for their need . the fund have support the installation of 483 new facility across 220 local authority area , and have be a jump - off point for good practice guidance , mandatory technical design training to local authority and operational training . I hear what my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock say about where that have fall short . we note that and we will make sure that we be communicate as well we can to make sure that , where these value facility have be instal , they be accessible , because the people who work in those space can help in the appropriate way . my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford be right that investment have be target to address gap where provision be limited or non - existent , particularly in rural town and coastal community . it be important to recognise the vital role that transport play in support independence and inclusion , so it must overlap with this agenda . again , I acknowledge the important work of the Department for Transport , which have make available more than £ 2 . 5 million of funding to install change place toilet at motorway service area and railway station across the country . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) recognise the well - love Keele service , but I know that there be many other across the country . change Places facility make it easy for disabled people and their family to travel however and wherever they want and to be confident that their need will be meet . we have hear a bit about how the facility be make available , and I think that tool be really important . the Government ' s inclusive transport strategy commit we to improve accessibility and ensure equal access to the transport network for disabled people by 2030 . my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford have make a very important suggestion about how that could be improve with a single integrated app . I would be keen to meet he to talk far about that , and I assure he that the same go for my colleague in the Department for Transport . the Minister be talk about the importance of a single integrated app that would bring together accessible toilet facility and transport . do he agree that we need this across the whole of the UK so that my constituent in Fife and constituent in Scotland can travel across the UK ? we be , after all , one country , and we need these facility to be integrate and open to all our constituent . will he join I in congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) on his amazing campaigning on issue like this ? on the second question , I absolutely will . my hon . friend ' s contribution to this debate be outstanding , as be his wide work . on the first point , as we begin summer recess , a great number of colleague will be cross national border within the UK — in my case to west Wales , but other will be go to Scotland . it be important that people know where facility be and that we have integration . I be always keen to work with my counterpart in the devolved government , and I certainly would be keen to work with they on this issue . my hon . friend the Members for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) , for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) and for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) , and all of we to some degree , have talk about a lack of provision in our community , notwithstanding that there be now 2 , 600 change place toilet . I hope to give a degree of succour , give the very important change that be make by the previous Government , which I want to recognise . the important change in building regulation in January 2021 mean that new large public building , from shopping centre and art venue to motorway service and sport stadium , have to have these toilet in they . I can give confidence to colleague that as development take place , they will naturally get these facility . that be really good news and a very important sign . it show that although thing such as building regulation might sound esoteric , if do thoughtfully and to reflect the live experience of our community , they can significantly improve quality of life for people across the country . that change will be come . that be fantastic , but could the Minister please think about how we can address this issue for those of we with predominantly rural community that have small town that be unlikely to have very large building ? I will take up that point in the same spirit . the intent of the original programme be to try to fill in the gap , but clearly from my hon . friend ' s contribution there be more to do , so I will reflect on that and talk with colleague . these change do not happen by accident , so I want to recognise the tireless campaigning of individual , charity such as Muscular Dystrophy UK , and local authority , which have be progressive in this space . I would like to personally thank a very good friend of mine in Nottingham , Martin Jackaman , who be at the very heart of this campaign at the beginning . it be he who introduce I to the importance of this issue be when I be a young portfolio holder on my council nearly 15 year ago . the action of such individual have mean that progress have be make and that we can be confident of more progress to come . do my hon . friend agree that there be quite a large amount of ignorance among people who do not need to use these facility , and that it be incumbent on all of we in this House , our councillor colleague and other to raise awareness so that people do not just walk on by in town , not realise the need of other ? it be so important that in our naturally busy life we all do not cut corner , whether by parking in place or use toilet that be not design for we . we must understand that , when we do so , what may seem a pretty harmless — I suspect it be thoughtless — act could have a profound impact on an individual who need those space that affect not only their day but whether in future they will be willing to venture into that amenity . I do not think anybody would want to have that impact . we must all reflect on the impact we have and , therefore , on how we might mitigate they in the future and stop these thing from happen . this have be an important debate . as we can see from the number of colleague in the Chamber , we could have do with much long — there be certainly much more I would like to have say on public toilet — but I know that we will have such opportunity in the future . the progress that have be make so far be a result of really heroic individual , campaigner and charity , and have happen because people have share what be often some of the bad experience of their and their family ' live . we be well for their willingness to do so . I want they to hear I say from the Dispatch Box that , yes , we want they to keep campaign and fighting — that be what we will all do — and that in we they have a Government who understand the issue they be talk about and want to be their partner in improve they . question put and agree to . House adjourn .