I be grateful to the hon . Lady . like she , I pay tribute to the big range of provider that play a crucial role in support our child ' s early education . that extend to private voluntary provider and childminder , who be a crucial part of the sector . the announcement we be make today on school - base nursery be design to deal with many of the challenge that she identify arise from the childcare desert leave behind by the Conservatives . we also know that school - base provider have a great share of the market in more deprive area , and 34 % of those announce today will serve disadvantaged community . alongside that , I note that the hon . Lady welcome the big ever uplift that we have secure in the early year pupil premium , which will make a big difference to the life chance of child from more disadvantaged background . when it come to the rate , we will always continue to keep those under review . the hon . Lady ask about the charge guidance that have be issue . I believe it be important that parent have great transparency when it come to charge and fee , and where they be able to exercise great choice in what be be offer to they . I believe that be the right approach , not least as we move towards a system in which the vast bulk of childcare be back by Government . my hon . friend can be assure that the early adopter breakfast club programme , for instance , be just the start of a national roll - out . I , too , be delighted that Ringway be part of the first phase of our school - base nursery programme , and we be determined to ensure that there be more provision throughout the country . of those that I have announce today , 34 % will serve community that experience disadvantage . it be important for we to ensure that all family can take up childcare and early year provision , and it be critical that we deliver those place . today ' s announcement of £ 37 million of capital investment , include investment in my hon . friend ' s constituency , will be a crucial part of that .