Speaker ' s Statement before we come to today ' s business , I want to note that on Sunday 27 October , we mark the 75th anniversary of the rebuilding of this Chamber after it be bomb during the second world war and leave destroy . the Chamber we sit in today remain a continue symbol of resilience and renewal . on the rebuilding of the Chamber , Prime Minister Winston Churchill describe the House of Commons as " the citadel of british liberty " . this House and this Chamber continue to play a vital role at the heart of our democracy today . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in mark this important anniversary . I invite member , at 11 am tomorrow , to attend the Chamber for a commemorative photo to mark the occasion . oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Sudan what recent discussion she have have with her counterpart in the United Arab Emirates on the situation in Sudan . I join you , Mr Speaker , in mark the 75th anniversary of the rebuilding of this Chamber and the tribute to democracy . I know many people will have concern for family and friend in Jamaica in the face of Hurricane Melissa , and I will make a further statement on the UK ' s response during topical question . on Sudan , I strongly condemn the escalate violence in El Fasher and the very grave report of civilian casualty and suffering . it be estimate that between 200 and 300 civilian be in the city , at grave risk of atrocity , follow the advance of the Rapid Support Forces . I have hold meeting and discussion , include at the UN General Assembly , and since then with a series of country include the United Arab Emirates and member of the Quad as we call for a desperately need ceasefire . it have be widely report in the press that the United Arab Emirates be arm the RSF in Sudan . the RSF be one of the two war faction in Sudan , and it be find by the UN to be responsible for crime against humanity include murder , torture , enslavement , rape and sexual violence . as per UK Government export datum , the UK export nearly £ 750 million - worth of arm to the UAE via standard individual export licence between 2019 and 2023 . if the UAE be indeed arm the RSF , the UK be breach its arm export licensing criterion , specifically criteria 1f , 2 , 4 , 6 and 7 . importantly , those criterion look beyond consider whether UK - export weapon ultimately reach Sudan , and they instead consider the UK ' s international obligation . give this , what step have the UK Government take to verify whether the UAE be arm the RSF — order . this be a very important subject , and other Members need to come in as well . these be mean to be question , rather than statement . I recognise the importance of this matter , and I be sure you be go to come to the end of your question now . my apology , Mr Speaker . will the UK cease all arm shipment to the UAE until it be prove that the UAE be not arm the rsf ? let I make two point in response to the hon . Gentleman ' s question . first , as he will know , the UK have extremely strong control on arm export , include to prevent any diversion . that remain important , and we will continue to take that immensely seriously . secondly , we need all country with influence in the region to push the RSF and the Sudanese Armed Forces to ensure the protection of civilian . there be real , deep concern about atrocity in Sudan , include sexual violence and the use of rape as a weapon of war . the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the new work be do through the Quad country — the US , Saudi Arabia , the UAE and Egypt — which have condemn the violence and call for an end to external support for the war party . we be press for the urgent implementation of that work . as penholder at the UN Security Council for both Sudan and the protection of civilian , the UK have a special responsibility follow the fall of El Fasher and the appalling report to which the Foreign Secretary refer . will she call an emergency session of the Security Council focus on the protection of terrified civilian in Darfur , give recent event ? she talk about the Quad . that statement be before the appalling event of the last three day . will she push every country in the Quad — the US , Saudi Arabia , Egypt and the UAE — to act now to prevent further massacre ? I agree with my right hon . friend that Sudan , the escalate violence and the humanitarian crisis must be on the agenda for the Security Council . we be press for that meeting to take place as soon as possible , and to ensure that the protection of civilian be at its heart . there be already a humanitarian crisis in Sudan , with huge number of people at risk of famine even before the escalate violence . I also agree on the urgent need to press all party to cease the violence and to ensure that humanitarian aid can get through . the news overnight from El Fasher in Darfur be truly dreadful , with evidence of summary execution and undoubted ethnic cleansing . give the pivotal role that Britain play , as set out by the former Minister for Development , the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , will the Foreign Secretary urgently review everything that we be do , in order to prevent El Fasher from become another Srebrenica ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise the grave nature of this crisis and the seriousness of the violence take place in El Fasher . I agree that we need to put on every possible pressure through both the United Nations and directly through the Quad . we need urgent action to get a ceasefire — the humanitarian truce call for by the Quad — as well as humanitarian aid and the crucial protection of civilian in place . he will know that the UK double aid for Sudan and have continue to protect that , but the aid be unable to get through as long as this terrible fighting be take place . as we have hear , about a quarter of a million civilian , include 130 , 000 child , be trap in the city of El Fasher , follow a brutal siege that have last 18 month . this be a critical moment amidst the world ' s great humanitarian catastrophe in Sudan . what can the UK Government do , with our ally , to ensure that we get humanitarian exit route out of El Fasher for those civilian ? I agree with my hon . friend that get civilian pathway out of the city to safety be urgently need . we be urge for a ceasefire to take place . we need all side to pull back from this escalating and incredibly dangerous violence . we be see the scale of atrocity at risk of take place , but the most immediate and urgent thing be to get a safe way out of the city for civilian . Gaza Peace Plan what step her Department be take to support the Gaza peace plan . what step her Department be take to support the Gaza peace plan . what step she be take to help secure a just and last peace in Gaza . the ceasefire agreement in Gaza , as a result of President Trump ' s peace initiative , be a profound moment of peace and hope , but it need to hold and to become a last peace , after two year of the most horrendous suffering . our immediate priority be ensure that unconditional humanitarian aid be flood into Gaza , where more action be need , but we be also work with partner to support the implementation of phase 2 of the peace plan , include the disarm of Hamas , the establishment of a palestinian committee as transitional government , and a pathway to two state live side by side . we be grateful to the United States for its co - ordination . this must not be a temporary peace that fade away . as the Foreign Secretary say , the ceasefire remain fragile , with both side accuse of violation , and fight on the occupy west bank continue . will my right hon . Friend assure the House that the UK will continue to play an active role in support the peace plan and hold all party to their commitment ? my hon . friend be right . give the horrendous suffering that we have see over the last two year , we need to ensure that the ceasefire hold . part of that involve get the humanitarian aid into Gaza . we be urge for more crossing to be open and for restriction on humanitarian aid to be lift , and we be work on some of the crucial next step , in conjunction with the US , arab state and many other state that have be involve in support the ceasefire , include through the disarmament of Hamas and the development of new governance arrangement . despite the most welcome peace plan , we have already see breach in the form of israeli air strike , with the restriction of lifesave supply enter Gaza . what be we do to ensure that sufficient humanitarian aid can get through to end the famine swiftly , and that the israeli leadership be hold accountable for violation of international law , so that we can finally see an end to the conflict , with no more innocent palestinian or israeli life be lose ? it be important that all side hold to the ceasefire and implement all the step commit to as part of President Trump ' s 20 - point peace plan . that involve get the humanitarian aid in place and maintain the ceasefire . we be work with the US and other country to support an effective monitoring arrangement so that there can be a proper process in place to ensure that all side hold to the ceasefire and keep move forward . over two week into the ceasefire in Gaza , israeli force be still kill Palestinians . many be be shoot at as they attempt to return to their home near a yellow line mark by Israel — a line that israeli medium be increasingly call a new border . what will the Government do to ensure that this supposedly temporary yellow line do not become a permanent border and effectively cut Gaza in half ? we have be clear that not only can we not divide Gaza , but that this first phase have to be part of the journey to a two - state solution that include Gaza , east Jerusalem and the west bank . that be the only way we will get a just and last peace . transition arrangement be set out as part of the 20 - point plan , but it be really crucial that we not only maintain the original ceasefire agreement — the first phase — but that we keep make progress on the rest of the point in the 20 - point plan and the second phase . thankfully , the live hostage have be return to receive medical attention and go back to their family , but , very sadly , the body of the deceased hostage have not all be return . that be a key element in this ceasefire treaty . what action be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure that Israel be support — and , if necessary , that the Palestinians be support — to identify the body of the deceased hostage and that those body be return , so that there can be closure for the family ? the hon . Member make an immensely important point . we will all have see the incredibly moving scene of hostage return after the most horrendous captivity , and be return to their family , but there be those who have lose love one — those whose loved one be take in that barbaric terrorist attack on 7 October — and be still wait to have their remain return . I have speak to family whose love one be lose and who have have the remain return , but I know how difficult this be and that people need to be able to grieve and pay tribute to their love one . we be continue to press for all the hostage remain to be release . we have also offer support — for example , demine capability , where there be concern about ordnance that might prevent the recovery of remain . how will the United Kingdom help to ensure that the Gaza peace plan include measure to restore access to clean and plentiful water ? the main source of fresh water in Gaza be the coastal aquifer , which be contaminate by sea water , sewage and chemical . up to 97 % of Gaza ' s tap water be unfit for human consumption . surely the Foreign Secretary agree that there can be no just peace amidst thirst and squalor . the hon . member be right to highlight water as a crucial humanitarian aid and support . I have speak to Tom Fletcher , who be co - ordinate much of the UN support , and to the egyptian and israeli Foreign Ministers about the importance of ensure that the crossing be open so that water can be provide and critical infrastructure rebuild . that will require financing , and my hon . friend the Middle East Minister have already be involve in look at way in which we can finance reconstruction for the long term . I thank the Secretary of State very much for her response . the peace plan can succeed only if Hamas be not part of it . Hamas need to return the dead hostage to the family , and they need to be disarm . we also need to ensure that they be not carry out summary execution of fellow Gazans , as they be currently do . if we be go to have a peace plan that last , Hamas need to be remove from the situation — we can then have peace . the hon . Member will know that I have always describe Hamas as a barbaric terrorist organisation , and that remain the case . crucially , we have see the Arab League condemn and reject Hamas , and join we and other country from across the world in be clear that Hamas can play no role in the future governance of Gaza or of Palestine . the UK have particularly be offer support on the decommissioning of weapon and the disarm of Hamas — a crucial part of the peace process — so that Palestinians and Israelis can live in peace and security . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . as the Foreign Secretary know , Hamas continue to terrorise the people of Gaza , carry out summary execution and deprive people of aid . terrorist tunnel and their infrastructure remain in place , so what role be the Foreign Secretary play in negotiation and dialogue about the elimination of Hamas ? what be the Government ' s view on how the international stabilisation force will operate , and will the UK be play a role in the board of peace alongside her former leader and friend , Tony Blair ? the shadow Foreign Secretary be right to highlight the importance of the disarmament and decommissioning of Hamas . that need to involve the tunnel as well as weapon and the whole infrastructure of terror that be build up over many year . that be why the UK have be propose different way in which we can help in the process of decommissioning and disarm Hamas , use expertise that we have build up over very many year . that will be a central part of maintain this peace process for the sake of a just and last peace . the shadow Foreign Secretary will also know that further discussion be under way about what the governance process need to be for the palestinian committee and the board of peace that be identify as part of President Trump ' s 20 - point plan . those further detail be still be negotiate , but we be clear that whatever the arrangement , we will continue to play a crucial role in support this peace process . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I echo the Foreign Secretary ' s word about Hurricane Melissa , and our shared concern for the people of Jamaica and the british citizen on that island . at this hopeful but fragile moment for Gaza , all side must fulfil their ceasefire obligation . that include Hamas , which must return the remain hostage ' body , and Israel , which must reopen all aid route into the strip . we must also preserve the condition for a two - state solution ; this Gaza peace plan be not sufficient to deliver a last peace between two viable and secure state . last week , the Knesset vote in favour of annex the west bank — a move that would undermine Palestinians ' right to self - determination . the strong criticism from US Secretary of State Rubio be notable and welcome , so will the Foreign Secretary work with the American Administration to bring forward a UN Security Council resolution that unreservedly condemn that vote and reaffirm the illegality of seize territory by force ? as I hope I have be clear , the future of Palestine need to include the west bank , east Jerusalem and Gaza . we have always strongly condemn any proposal to annex the west bank , as well as illegal settlement in the west bank , and it be significant that not only Secretary of State Rubio but President Trump and Vice - President Vance have make clear their condemnation of the proposal for the annexation of the west bank . in order to have security and peace for Israelis alongside security and peace for Palestinians , we ultimately need to work towards that two - state solution — two state live side by side . Ukraine what step her Department be take to support Ukraine . on Friday , I welcome President Zelensky and the coalition of the willing to a meeting at the Foreign Office chair by the Prime Minister , to demonstrate our continued support for Ukraine in the face of russian aggression . since I set out in this House new , strong sanction against Russia ' s two large oil producer , Rosneft and Lukoil , I be pleased to say that the US have follow suit , and the EU have also introduce further sanction . we need to tighten the economic vice on Russia in order to bring Putin to the table and get a pathway to peace . I welcome the UK ' s leadership on the issue of russian sovereign asset . what further conversation be the Foreign Secretary have with her international counterpart to accelerate that work and ensure that Russia pay for its illegal war ? the issue of russian sovereign asset be an extremely important one . both I and the Chancellor have have many discussion with our counterpart , particularly in Europe but also through the G7 . we want to be able to mobilise those sovereign asset in order to support Ukraine . the EU have set out proposal for reparation loan , which we think be the sensible way forward , because fundamentally , Russia need to pay for the damage it be do to Ukraine . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s comment about russian frozen asset . she will possibly agree with I that the US be an increasingly unreliable partner for Ukraine . can she tell I what discussion she have have with european counterpart about secure Ukrainians ’ long - range missile with european partner so that they can well defend themselves ? this issue be discuss as part of the coalition of the willing , where NATO be present , as well as many country from Europe and across the world . those discussion be about continued military support to Ukraine , as well as this crucial economic pressure . the US package of sanction that have now be announce , which be similar to the package that we announce on Rosneft and Lukoil , be extremely important , because we need to choke off access to the market for russian oil and gas . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I be pleased yesterday to see the Foreign Secretary write in the Times : " now be the time for international action to use Russia ' s frozen sovereign asset to support Ukraine . " the trouble be that over the past three year , eight month and four day there have be a lot of talk about use these asset , and nothing have happen . I know that the Foreign Secretary know that the last thing that Ukraine need be warm word ; we need action , particularly against a background of the Russians renew their bombing campaign against civilian in the city . the question be : if there be go to be a plan , when will it happen ? when will this considerable sum of money be use to rearm and rebuild Ukraine ? I echo my right hon . friend ' s comment about the civilian attack that we have see , include the most horrendous attack on a kindergarten in Ukraine . she be right that we need to ensure that these asset be mobilise . obviously a lot of that need to be do in conjunction with the European Union , where many of the asset be currently hold . the EU have have a series of discussion and make significant progress through the work do by the EU Commission . many of the other individual nation be press to go far , and we be work closely with they to do so . we need to get this investment mobilise to support Ukraine . the US President be willing to meet the russian President in Budapest , in spite of the fact that we give assurance in Budapest in that 1994 memorandum that have since be ignore . although that meeting will not now go ahead , can the Foreign Secretary share the Government ' s late thinking about future security guarantee for Ukraine ? security guarantee remain an important part of our support for Ukraine . one reason that the coalition of the willing be bring together be to set out what those security guarantee would be . that will continue to be the case , work with the US to do so . the most immediate issue be to ensure sufficient economic pressure , particularly on oil and gas , to bring Putin back to the table . while President Zelensky have say that he be willing to negotiate and support an immediate ceasefire , President Putin be simply escalate the war . I call the shadow Minister . Russia ' s war in Ukraine be fuel by oil export revenue sustain by third - country refinery in India , Turkey and China . they process and re - export russian crude as refined product , often to sanction state . these country be fuel Putin ' s war chest . last month , President Trump call on Turkey to halt russian oil import . do the Prime Minister follow President Trump ' s approach and demand that his turkish counterpart stop the Star refinery and T ü pra ş from buy russian oil ? we have these discussion with country across the world , urge they to support sanction or to reduce their dependence on russian oil and gas , which will reduce those import and help we choke off the supply of russian oil and gas from the market . that be why we have also begin to sanction designate refinery not just in Russia itself , but across the world . China : assessment of Threat Level what assessment she have make of the level of threat China pose to UK interest . the former Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , set out to Parliament early this year the full spectrum of threat pose by China , include espionage , cyber - attack , transnational repression and support for Russia . we challenge China robustly in relation to all those threat . China be also our third - large trading partner and a country that we need to work with intensely on international issue such as climate change . we need to challenge China on security and compete and co - operate on economic and global affair . in her former role , the Foreign Secretary write to the Planning Inspectorate raise no objection to the chinese super - embassy application . she do not mention any concern about the secret basement — some people describe they as dungeon — on the application , and she raise no objection to the proximity of the application to key data cable in the City of London . in her new role , do she now regret her previous lack of action ? the hon . Member will know that the Government take action to ensure that security measure be in place , and we do so through a series of different route . he will also know that the planning process be independent , and will follow its course . when it come to the UK ' s relation with China , it be not a simple binary choice between national security and growth — national security must always be our non - negotiable red line — but subject to that , do the Foreign Secretary agree that when there be specific sector where economic engagement with China promote growth , we should be open to that ? my hon . friend be right . we already have substantial trade with China , there be also investment from both the United Kingdom and China , and we have always be a trading nation that work and trade with country across the globe , but as my hon . Friend say , national security must always be the first priority . that be why , wherever there be national security threat , we take they immensely seriously and will always challenge China on they . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . speak of challenge China , will the Foreign Secretary comment on the recent threat make by the chinese Government towards Britain over the embassy application , the spy case and Taiwan , and will she tell the House whether there have be any meeting with the Chinese Government , British Ministers , Jonathan Powell and other official in which they have discuss the now collapse spy case ? have China at any point request that the case be drop , and will she now apologise for back the embassy application ? the shadow Foreign Secretary have perhaps forget the position that her Government have previously take towards China on a range of issue . we have make it clear that the planning process in the UK be independent and have to involve the normal planning process , as be appropriate . we also ensure that security measure be always take immensely seriously , and we have a range of different way of do so . as for the China case to which the right hon . Lady have refer , I remain extremely frustrated about the collapse of that case , and my view remain that the kind of activity that be allege should face the full force of the law . that be why I support the strengthening and updating of the law in this area , to make prosecution easy , and it be a shame that the right hon . Lady ' s party take so long to do it . Gibraltar : UK - EU Agreement what progress she have make on implement the UK - EU agreement on Gibraltar . it be fantastic to visit Gibraltar recently for its national day , and also to meet my European Union and spanish counterpart . the agreement reach between the UK and the EU in June be welcome and significant : it will mean job , investment and stability , not just for Gibraltar but for the whole region . all party have agree to work together to finalise the treaty text and ratify the agreement as quickly as possible , and I will update the House in due course like the Minister , I have the pleasure of be in Gibraltar in the summer at the invitation of the Government , and I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I see for myself the vital necessity of this deal to secure the economy and the social fabric of Gibraltar and , in particular , the movement of 15 , 000 people across the Spain - Gibraltar frontier every day . can the Minister commit himself to bring the treaty to the House at the first possible opportunity , so that the detail can be give the full possible scrutiny ? absolutely . the hon . Gentleman mention the challenge that have exist at the border . I have be stick in those queue , Mr Speaker , and you may have be as well . this deal will mean an end to that , and a new , positive relationship . indeed , much will be positive for the economy and for all the people of Gibraltar . we will bring the treaty to the House as soon as possible — as soon as it be finalise — and it will go through the normal process . Parliament will , of course , be able to debate its term if it wish to do so . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be an honour to welcome Gibraltar ' s First Minister to last week ' s annual general meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on Gibraltar . as a cross - party group , we wholeheartedly welcome the treaty , but can the Minister assure I that it will produce economic benefit for Gibraltarians and an increase in the prospect for tourism ? I absolutely can assure my hon . friend . I thank she and the whole APPG for their work , cross - party , in support of Gibraltar . I know , of course , that this deal be firmly back by the Chief Minister of Gibraltar and his government and will bring important benefit for the economy , job and people of Gibraltar . as she mention tourism , we might now see more flight come into Gibraltar airport from elsewhere in Europe , which will be very positive for Gibraltar and the region . palestinian State what step she be take to promote a palestinian state . the UK ' s commitment to a two - state solution remain steadfast . the UK have provide £ 116 million of aid to the palestinian people this year . I be proud that , on 21 September , the Prime Minister announce the UK ' s recognition of the state of Palestine . that be to protect the viability of the two - state solution and support a path towards last peace . meanwhile , the UK Government be continue to provide technical and financial support to the Palestinian Authority as they build a viable and effective state of Palestine . in July , we announce £ 7 million in technical support to strengthen governance , accountability and civic space in Palestine . I and the Foreign Secretary remain in touch with our palestinian counterpart . slow as it be , that be welcome indeed , but will the Government go beyond suspend new trade deal and actively review exist trade deal with Israel , include both good and service originate from the illegal settlement , to ensure that UK trade policy do not undermine the prospect of palestinian statehood ? the Foreign Secretary have already be clear about the importance of a single , effective palestinian state , which of course include the west bank . the hon . Member have hear from I on a number of occasion about the different trading standard for both Israel itself and the occupy territory . we of course keep these question under close review , but the whole House will appreciate that our focus now need to be on ensure that the ceasefire hold as we move into the 20 - point plan and towards the two - state solution that we all want to see . we all welcome a ceasefire and the recognition of a palestinian state , but we must now support the palestinian people . the head of the United Nations humanitarian affair team have say that drive through Gaza City be like " go through the ruin of Hiroshima " . the people of Gaza who have endure this hellish war and survive now face a humanitarian disaster . they urgently need aid , and the UK , along with many other country , stand ready to provide it . the block to this aid , as so frequently have be the case , be the israeli authority . what step be the Government take to ensure that Israel stop block this urgently need aid and humanitarian supply , and to get they to the people who be desperately in need ? I want to update the House on this very important question . we be see a great flow of aid into Gaza . that is , of course , supremely welcome , and something that we have long await , but it be not yet at the level we would wish to see . there be still restriction on that aid go in , and , as the Foreign Secretary have be clear on , vital crossing remain unopened . we continue to engage with all our partner on this , and I and the Foreign Secretary will be travel to the region this weekend to pursue that work . Hong Kong : Human Rights violation what assessment she have make of recent trend in the level of human right violation in Hong Kong . the continued erosion of democratic right and freedom in Hong Kong be deeply concern . last week , the Foreign Secretary submit to this House the Government ' s late six - monthly report on Hong Kong , which detail how national security legislation be diminish Hong Kong ' s political autonomy . the Government will continue to champion the right and freedom of the people of Hong Kong . a constituent of mine , who now live in Haywards Heath , come to the UK from Hong Kong under the british national overseas visa route after the deterioration of human right there leave she and her daughter with no choice but to seek safety . she be now deeply anxious about report that the qualifying period for settlement and citizenship may be extend . I think the whole House can agree that the human right violation in Hong Kong be abhorrent , so what representation have the Minister make to her chinese counterpart , and can she explain how she will protect BNO visa holder who have make their home in the UK ? indeed , we agree that any attempt by foreign government to coerce , intimidate , harass or harm their critic or other abroad , especially in the UK , will not be tolerate . the Government be also strengthen effort to tackle transnational repression , include through the introduction of dedicated police training and online guidance to support victim . indeed , we be commit to the people of Hong Kong , as exemplify by the BNO visa route . it be our historical and moral commitment , and the hon . Lady will be aware , in relation to the change in the immigration White Paper , that the Government will bring forth more detail about the consultation and work in due course . two pro - democracy party in Hong Kong have disband recently , activist Joshua Wong be rearreste and face further charge under the national security law , and Jimmy Lai remain in prison . do the Minister agree that the national security law continue to be use to erode the right and freedom of Hongkongers , and can she confirm that the UK continue to strongly oppose it ? I can absolutely confirm that we continue to oppose the national security law . as outline in the report that the Foreign Secretary present to Parliament last week , the Hong Kong authority continue to apply national security legislation to diminish the city ' s political autonomy and political pluralism , include freedom of association , freedom of assembly and freedom of information . indeed , Hong Kong now rank 140th out of 180 in the 2025 world press freedom index — enter the red zone for the first time . this be indeed a very serious situation . organise Immigration Crime what diplomatic step her Department be take with international partner to help tackle organise immigration crime . we know that people - smuggle gang work across border to operate their vile trade , so we too must work across border to disrupt their supply chain , dismantle their network and undermine their business model . that be why we be strengthen co - operation with other country , include through our illegal migration sanction regime — the first of its kind in the world — and we be target the leader of people - smuggle gang wherever they be base . I thank the Minister for his answer ; I know this be an issue of great concern to my constituent across Bexleyheath and Crayford . follow last week ' s west Balkans summit , could he provide an update on the measure that be be take to reduce the number of illegal migrant be bring to the UK via the western Balkans ? I thank my hon . friend for his very important question , and he be absolutely right : tackle illegal migration be vital to our strategic relationship with the western Balkans . last week , we announce new sanction against gang leader , passport forger and illicit financier , many of whom have tie to that region , and we be enhance collaboration between our country — for example , through the Border Police Chiefs ' Forum , the expansion of the joint migration taskforce and the deployment of UK border security officer to the western Balkans . do the Minister agree that foreign national convict of serious drug offence in Northern Ireland should be deport without delay ? will he ensure that his Department work with international partner and prioritise swift removal agreement to stop those involve in organise immigration and drug crime re - offend on our street ? I absolutely agree with the sentiment of the hon . Lady ' s question . she will know that in our first year in government , we deport over 5 , 000 foreign national offender — a 14 % increase on the previous 12 month . we be speed up the early removal scheme so that most foreign prisoner can be deport after serve 30 % , rather than the previous 50 % , of their custodial sentence . BBC World Service what step her Department be take to provide sustainable funding for the BBC World Service . the BBC World Service remain the world ' s most - trust international news source and support our national security , growth and development objective . that be why we provide a 31 % increase in Government funding for the World Service this year . funding allocation for the next three year will be announce in due course . the Institute for Global Prosperity and CreativePower have produce an excellent report on the sheer impact of the World Service , which reach 320 million people globally and be trust by 75 % . in a key market for the Government — India — 75 million people listen to or watch the BBC . how will the Government maximise the opportunity of the World Service , which be one of our good soft power asset and the good way that we can have conversation with the rest of the world ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . the Government wholeheartedly agree with he that the BBC World Service be one of our strong area of soft power . he will be aware that the charter review start next year , and we think that be one of the good way we can work towards establish the funding stream . we be work with the BBC World Service on way in which it can innovate to ensure that it reach even far , as the most trusted news network on the globe . I recently meet senior journalist who have be exile from Russia , follow Putin ' s clampdown on any form of free , trustworthy medium . despite the huge challenge , they be still provide vital , accurate reporting for all those in the region who need it most . will the Minister commit to sustainable funding guarantee for our soft power , and continue to support these courageous journalist , who be force to move country , and be often threaten by rogue state ? I agree with my hon . friend about the work of the BBC World Service , and we be work with the BBC . I be shortly due to visit Broadcasting House to see at first hand the work it be do , particularly its innovative work to deliver and develop its funding programme , which will form part of the charter review . in response to russian interference in the medium around the world , I echo my hon . friend ' s support for the journalist who work in the World Service , who do so much to expose what be happen globally , particularly around conflict . Gaza : humanitarian Situation what step her Department be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what diplomatic step she be take to help ensure that humanitarian aid can reach people in Gaza . alongside our international partner , the UK be work to get aid into Gaza on the scale need to ease the desperate humanitarian crisis that be take place . in recent day , the Foreign Secretary have speak with Tom Fletcher of the United Nations , egyptian Foreign Minister Abdelatty and israeli Foreign Minister Sa ' ar about the importance of open more crossing and remove all restriction on aid . we be ready to play our full part in provide that aid . we have announce £ 74 million of humanitarian funding already this year , include the £ 20 million announce at the peace summit in Egypt . I fully support the Minister in welcome the US - broker ceasefire , which have enable the delivery of much - need humanitarian aid into Gaza . as the Minister be aware , the UN and its partner have significantly scale up their operation provide essential supply , such as food , water , medical aid and fuel . however , give that border closure and ongoing political tension continue to obstruct the flow of assistance , what step be the Government take to ensure unimpeded humanitarian access , and to prevent aid be use as a tool of political leverage ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . follow the US - lead ceasefire agreement and the UN ' s work , more truck be start to cross the border , but that need to be scale up much more rapidly , and we need the Rafah crossing fully open , alongside other aid route . we need international non - governmental organisation in , and able to operate in Gaza unimpeded . civilian in Gaza can not wait . the Norwegian Refugee Council say that , between 10 and 21 October , 99 request by international NGOs to deliver aid to Gaza be reject by Israel on the ground that the organisation be " not authorise " to deliver humanitarian aid to Gaza , yet these trust agency have operate there for decade . can the Minister tell the people of Gaza who be live in makeshift shelter , and who be hungry and thirsty , what the UK Government be actually do to compel the israeli authority to immediately allow aid delivery into Gaza ? we need to see the agreement implement in full . the Foreign Secretary have raise this particular case with the Foreign Minister of Israel . we will continue to press for the full flow of aid that need to go in . the hon . Member rightly ask I what I say to the people of Gaza . I say that we understand the urgency , and that the aid need to be in there now . we will continue to press those point on the phone , and when we both go to the region this weekend . UK - Mauritius Agreement on the Chagos Archipelago : fund how much and what proportion of the funding due to be allocate to Mauritius as part of the agreement concern the Chagos archipelago will come from her Department ' s budget . we have secure a deal that will protect the operation of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia well into the next century . the payment make under the deal will be split between the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence , and publish in the annual account of each Department . in what proportion ? as I have say , that will be publish in the annual account of each Department . I call the shadow Minister . last week , Labour vote against our amendment , which would have give the House of Commons a say on the Government ' s reckless decision to surrender £ 35 billion of taxpayer ' hard - earn money to Mauritius for the privilege of give away our own sovereign territory , but we still have no certainty from the Government about the fate of the vital Diego Garcia base after the 99 - year period . what be stop Mauritius demand billion more if the UK wish to extend the use of Diego Garcia for another 40 year ? would it not be more sensible to save the money , ditch the surrender deal and the keep the Chagos island british ? as the hon . Gentleman know from the many question that I have answer on this issue , and indeed the debate we have in this place that secure the Bill ' s Third Reading , the cost of the agreement in today ' s money be £ 101 million , and the net present value over 99 year be £ 3 . 4 billion . however much he come up with other fantasy figure , they be simply incorrect ; these be verify by the Government Actuary ' s Department . if he want to talk about spending and value , I will not apologise for spending on our national security and keep this country and our ally safe . for comparison , he might like to reflect on the fact that the annual payment be 20 % less than the cost of the festival of Brexit . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . Hurricane Melissa be expect to make landfall in Jamaica shortly . it be potentially the most severe storm ever to hit the country . sadly , seven people across the region have already reportedly lose their life , and thousand be in shelter as they wait for the storm ' s arrival . many people will be think of family and friend in Jamaica and the region . I speak with the jamaican Foreign Minister yesterday to offer the UK ' s full support and solidarity . we be prepared to mobilise resource at their request . the fcdo stand ready to help british national 24 / 7 . we have set up the crisis centre in the Foreign Office , include with support from the MOD . we be also position specialist rapid deployment team to provide consular assistance to british national in the region . any british national who be there should follow our travel advice and the advice of the jamaican authority . we be closely monitor the hurricane ' s path . Melissa be forecast to impact Cuba next , and potentially the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Bahamas . minister have speak with the Governors of the overseas territory in the region , and we hope that these island be spare significant damage . the UK Government be also prepare to deliver humanitarian assistance to affected area , with a focus on meet the immediate need of those who be most vulnerable . we send the people of Jamaica our support and solidarity today . I thank the Foreign Secretary for that update on Jamaica and the diligence of the fcdo in prepare for event there . tomorrow I be host Hong Kong Watch in Parliament as it release its late report on the erosion of Hong Kong ' s autonomy . the report highlight how Beijing have increasingly seek to dismantle Hong Kong ' s autonomy while exploit the privilege of Hong Kong ' s special status . this be increasingly have an impact on business operation in Hong Kong , and be something that be well understand by the Government , but have yet to be fully recognise , include in last week ' s fcdo six - monthly report . will the UK consider additional step to push back against these violation of China ' s international treaty obligation — order . can you help I to help everybody else to get in ? in topical , we have to be short and punchy . we strongly condemn China ' s non - compliance with the joint declaration , as describe in the late publish six - monthly report , which detail the continue deterioration of right and freedom in Hong Kong . we have continually press China to uphold the right of Hongkongers ; its non - compliance be one of the reason we remain steadfastly committed to the british national overseas visa route . Shadow Foreign Secretary , Dame Priti Patel . Hayat Tahrir al - Sham trace its root back to the barbaric terrorism of al - Qaeda , which cause death and destruction , and harm to our ally . can the Foreign Secretary explain to the House why her Government have de - proscribe HTS , and do she believe that it be no long a terrorist threat to the world ? both of we know from our former role as Home Secretary that the proscription process be very detailed and consider , and it draw on a range of security expertise . that process no long assess HTS to be an alias of al - Qaeda , after extensive consideration and a full assessment of the available information . as the right hon . Lady know , that be the ground on which it be proscribe . we will ultimately , however , judge they on their action , not their word , but the new syrian Government have convey their strong commitment to work with the UK . do the Foreign Secretary believe that this decision will lead to the destruction of all chemical weapon in Syria ? she say that HTS will be judge on its action . will she look at put condition in place if it do not step up its action , in the same way that America have do , with the sanction that be lift ? the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have raise this issue directly with the syrian Government , and we continue to raise these security issue with not just Syria but other party in the region , because the right hon . Member will know the importance of regional government work together on the security issue that she raise . this be about the historical terrorism threat we have face from the region , but also the responsibility on government to maintain stability in Syria , and the impact that have across the region . we will continue to take these security issue immensely seriously . I welcome the Government sanction two russian oil major around a fortnight ago , but do the Foreign Secretary agree that it be only by increase the economic pressure on Putin that we will force he to the negotiating table and finally bring an end to Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine ? I agree with my hon . friend . we need to increase the economic pressure on Putin . we need to choke off the supply of russian oil and gas into international market . our package of sanction , include on the two big russian oil producer , be a substantial step forward . it be welcome that other country , include the US , be now do the same . it be only through international action that we will have that impact . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in the United States , President Trump continue to use his public power to advance his private financial interest . in the UK , as well as root out traitor like Nathan Gill , who take fund from our enemy , we must prevent this corrosive cronyism from enter our politic . I write yesterday to the new Ethics and Integrity Commission , call on it to investigate whether Department for Culture , Media and Sport official lobby for Trump ' s golf course . I intend to bring a Bill to this place that would create enhance protection against UK Ministers and official lobby for foreign power . will the Secretary of State commit to support the principle of the Bill ? not have see the hon . member ' s proposal , I will not comment on they at this stage , but we take all evidence of foreign interference in this country very seriously . I work closely with Ministers across Government , include the Home Office and the Security Minister , to keep these issue under regular assessment . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the Kurdistan region in Iraq , and as I lead a delegation there . the 2005 federal iraqi constitution agree in a popular vote to underpin kurdish right . we be tell that Baghdad deliberately withhold salary payment to public employee in the region . the Foreign Secretary visit Erbil when she be Home Secretary , and know how important this part of Iraq be to our security . do she agree that we need our kurdish ally to be strong and respect in a federal Iraq , and that a well relationship there would enable vital reform , for the benefit of that region and , indeed , our own country ? the relationship between Baghdad , Erbil and Sulaymaniyah be of vital importance . I continue to discuss these issue with the iraqi Foreign Minister , and iraqi kurdish politician as well . we will continue to do so , and I look forward to visit the region shortly . the UN Secretary General have warn that it be now inevitable that we will fail to keep global warming under 1 . 5 ° C , with the threat of devastating consequence , like the loss of the Amazon rainforest and its role in climate regulation . while the Conservatives and reform continue to sabotage climate action , it be good to know that the Prime Minister will be go to COP30 , but will the Foreign Secretary commit to make no further cut to our international aid budget , so that we can contribute to the Tropical Forest Forever Facility fund ? the hon . member be a passionate advocate on these issue ; we debate they just the other day in Westminster Hall . the UK remain committed to provide international climate finance , now and in the future , and to play our part , alongside other develop country and climate finance provider . we be committed to deliver £ 11 . 6 billion in international climate finance by the end of 2025 - 26 . Friday be World Polio Day . my constituent Anne Strike , a former Paralympian , continue to campaign for the eradication of polio . what reassurance can the Minister give I that the UK will continue to be a lead player in that aim ? my hon . friend be a long - stand advocate of polio eradication . the UK be a long - time supporter of the initiative and we have confirm a £ 1 . 25 billion pledge to Gavi for 2026 - 30 . other spending , include on the Global Polio Eradication Initiative , be be review as part of the spending review and the official development assistance allocation process , which will be decide in due course . as we speak , the Chagossians be in the High Court to try to stop the terrible Chagos surrender deal . give this Government ' s passion for international human right , and that we all agree how badly the Chagossians have be treat , will the Government finally agree to grant they a referendum on this dreadful deal ? I be not go to comment on legal proceeding , but the hon . Gentleman know full well that this have to be a treaty negotiate between the UK and Mauritius — that be the basis on which it be do . we absolutely recognise the historic wrong do to the chagossian people . I have engage with chagossian community on a number of occasion and will continue to do so through our new contact group . I welcome the new package of sanction on russian financial institution . do the Minister agree that we should stand ready to expand that package to stop russian financial institution finance Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine ? my hon . friend will know that we do not comment on future sanction designation , but we be , as the Foreign Secretary say , absolutely committed to choke off Russia ' s war machine and bring Putin to the table . that be why our sanction alongside other have deny Russia access to at least £ 450 billion since February 2022 , which would have fund two more year of this illegal and barbarous war . we will not hesitate to act where we can and we will work with other in that endeavour . on Saturday , I join CAFOD and my constituent Karl , Harry and Jo on a deadlift challenge . we — and yes , Mr Speaker , that include I — collectively lift more than 100 tonne , the equivalent of five aid plane to Gaza . CAFOD also work in the west bank , where Palestinians be be treat as second - class citizen live under military , not civil , law . what diplomatic action be the Department take to ensure an end to violence against Palestinians and to improve their right while a two - state solution be negotiate ? the initiative that the hon . Member take with CAFOD rightly highlight the importance of rubble movement in Gaza , which be an enormous logistical challenge . that be one of the reason I convene the Gaza reconstruction conference in Wilton Park . she rightly raise the very important question of right in the west bank . we have contribute and will continue to contribute to effort locally to ensure that those resident in the west bank can exercise their right , and we will continue to raise the wide issue around annexation . the Foreign Secretary will be aware that Hurricane Melissa be of huge concern internationally , to those who have friend and family on holiday in Jamaica and to those of we of jamaican heritage here in Britain . will she give an assurance that in the horrific aftermath of Melissa , we will give every possible help and support to the people of Jamaica ? I agree with my right hon . friend the Mother of the House . there be 50 , 000 dual national who live in Jamaica and up to 8 , 000 british citizen who may be travel or on holiday there . we have very strong link between our community — between the people of Jamaica and the people of Britain . that be why I speak to the jamaican Foreign Minister yesterday to offer our solidarity and support . I can tell my right hon . friend that we have not just the rapid deployment of consular staff , but humanitarian staff be pre - positioned in the Caribbean . we discuss this matter in the crisis centre this morning , include what we might be able to deploy on request from the Jamaican Government . we stand ready to help and respond . can the Foreign Secretary help with the context of the middle east conflict ? I have be endeavour to establish an independent verifiable number for the rocket attack into Israel that be carry out in the 12 month before 7 October and the 12 month after 7 October to give some context to what have happen since . be she able to assist ? it be an important question . we have condemn rocket attack into Israel throughout — both before and after 7 October . the nature of the rocket from Hamas and palestinian Islamic Jihad make it hard to have a clear and indisputable number , but I will try to assist the hon . gentleman on some of the other rocket . I believe that iranian attack since 7 October have include 600 rocket , kill 29 Israelis , and that Houthi attack , which have target israeli civilian , have include 100 ballistic missile and drone . I recently meet the family of Davinder Singh Thandi , who die in suspicious circumstance in India . this have obviously be a distressing time for my constituent , and unfortunately they have struggle to get timely advice and support from the Foreign Office . I thank the Minister for her recent letter , but will she meet I to discuss their case and how the Department can develop a victim code to well support family like Mr Thandi ' s ? I thank my hon . friend for her letter , and I be very happy to meet she to discuss this matter . last week the Chancellor accept that Brexit have cause huge damage to the economy . this week source suggest that the Prime Minister be be advise to go far in his realignment with the European Union , as the Office for Budget Responsibility be reportedly forecast a new black hole of around £ 20 billion — again show the impact of Brexit on growth . be the Foreign Secretary ready to admit that no matter how people try to spin it , Brexit have be an all - out disaster for Scotland and these island ? we have have no hesitation in expose the impact of the botched Brexit deal that the previous Government make . that be exactly why we have reset our relationship with the EU and achieve important agreement at the May summit . it be also why the Minister for the Cabinet Office , myself and other be work to deliver on that deal to ensure benefit for our business , consumer and people across this country . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . member might not be aware that the fcdo have give notice to the Insolvency Service that 1 , 885 job be at risk due to the 25 % reduction in the workforce that follow the ODA cut . this be a massive drop in staff number and it be bind to have a real impact , particularly on small department such as conflict prevention . will the Foreign Secretary please comment , be new in post , on how this will impact on her ability to shape the Department as she want ? the forward plan for the Department be still not finalise . how can she operate without the staff to do so ? my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee will know that the Government have take the difficult decision to reduce the aid budget in order to fund the defence resource that we need at a time when there be significant security pressure . she will also know that we be work to find different way , include private finance and new investment , to maintain not just the multilateral investment that be so important but crucial aid programme in area such as Sudan and Gaza . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss these detail far and — Order . I need the Foreign Secretary to help I here . member be desperate to get their question in , and the only way I can get they in be by speed up . we have to get on with the Opposition day at some point . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . when I be in Ukraine last month I meet senior ukrainian figure , all of whom tell I the same thing : they need more support from Europe to win this war . with that in mind , will the Foreign Secretary finally commit to seize the £ 25 billion - worth of frozen russian asset hold in the UK and deploy they to Ukraine in its hour of need ? I absolutely agree that we need to get Ukraine every support that it need . our support be iron - clothe , which be why we host the coalition of the willing on Thursday . member will have hear the Foreign Secretary say that we be work closely with partner to ensure that Russia pay for the damage it have cause , and we will find the lawful and most effective way to do that . Karim Ennarah be an internationally recognise human right activist who have be subject to a travel ban by Egypt and have be stick there since 2020 . what be the Foreign Office do — or what can it do — to ensure that he be able to come to the UK to join his wife in my constituency ? I be familiar with the case and have meet the man in question and my hon . friend ' s constituent . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss it far . I be travel to Egypt this weekend and will continue to be in these sort of discussion . cut to spend in Afghanistan inevitably impact woman and child disproportionately . they be more likely to be employ by NGOs force to make cut and more likely to need assistance . do the Minister agree that we need to ringfence and protect funding to Afghanistan ? we have to be clear about who be drive the oppression of afghan woman and girl . the Taliban have put further restriction on woman and girl . they have take further step , include restrict the internet , that undermine the viability of Afghanistan ' s economy at a fundamental level . but I assure the House that we continue to allocate significant funding to Afghanistan , with £ 151 million this year . that be a small decrease from last year , but I assure the hon . member , who I know remain committed to these issue , that we remain very much focused on they . the british public be under no illusion about the level of resource need for humanitarian aid in Gaza and the rebuild of Gaza , and they want to play their part . have the Government consider aid - match each £ 1 of public contribution with £ 1 of Government money to increase the proportion of british aid and rebuilding that can happen in Gaza ? we be look at different way to ensure that we can get sufficient resource into Gaza — that will require not just immediate humanitarian assistance but long - term reconstruction aid — and we be continue to work with our ally and here in the UK on do so . last week I meet Nada , an Oxford plastic surgeon who tell I horrific story of the child she have be treat in Gaza . I believe that the Secretary of State have meet she , too . the most concern thing be that if these wound do not have care , they will lead to life - change disability . medic be call for a humanitarian corridor between Gaza and the west bank so that those palestinian child can stay in Palestine . what discussion have she have on the matter ? I have meet the doctor to whom the hon . Member refer . her work be inspire , and she deal with the most terrible story of suffering . we agree that we need to be able to get humanitarian corridor in place and to treat child , especially in the region , but , as the hon . Member will know , we be also medevace child to the UK for treatment . last month , ahead of the UN General Assembly , I have the honour of welcome Vlad , Valeriia and Roman : three young child who be injure and abduct by Russia during Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . I thank you , Mr . Speaker , and my hon . friend the Minister for take time out of your busy day to meet those child and to hear at first hand the horror they have be through , as well as their inspire story . will the Minister update the House on what discussion be hold at the UN General Assembly on the unlawful deportation of ukrainian child ? what further support be be provide to Ukraine to aid their recovery ? it genuinely be an honour to meet the three young people my hon . friend mention . as she say , not only be their story shocking , but they be inspire in their courage . I assure she that we continue to use every forum , include the United Nations , and all our discussion with partner and ally . I particularly commend the First Lady ' s initiative on this issue . we want to see those young people return — it be one of the most heinous aspect of Russia ' s illegal and barbarous war in Ukraine . the British Council be in dire financial strait . if it disappear , so will the invaluable soft power that it wield . will the Foreign Secretary commit to meet the chief executive of the British Council to discuss that as soon as possible ? the british Council play a crucial role in support UK interest around the world , include help people to learn English and promote the art and culture . the Foreign Office be provide £ 160 million in grant aid to the council this year , which underline our support . I have already meet the vice - chair and the deputy chief executive , and I will meet the chief executive and the chair in due course . Mr Yaxley - Lennon , aka t . Robinson , have be f ê ted in Israel at the invitation of a Government Minister , while the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket , aka Dr Peter Prinsley — a British Jew , a member of the Board of Deputies and a vocal supporter of the israeli people in Parliament — have be ban . what do the Minister think can be usefully do to rectify that ? my hon . friend be an incredibly thoughtful , long - stand commentator on these issue . both he and his family have make a great contribution to UK - israeli relation . it be an act of great foolishness to prevent he from enter Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . we call on the israeli Government at the time , as we do in previous such instance . we can not prevent the israeli Government from make decision that be not in their interest , but that be clearly one of they . the Government ' s position seem to be that communist China can and do pose a wide range of serious threat to the United Kingdom but be not a threat itself . how can that possibly make sense ? the right hon . Gentleman will have hear I set out very clearly the threat that China pose to our national security , include those of transnational repression , support for Russia and espionage . he will know that range of threat and that be why it be deeply frustrating that the prosecution have not take place . he will also know that China be a trading partner and that we continue to have strong economic relation . it be possible for both those thing to be true . despite a ceasefire be in place for almost a year , israeli force strike UN peacekeeper in southern Lebanon just this weekend . what work be the Government do with the lebanese Government and in particular the lebanese armed force to shore up our crucial ally in the region ? Lebanon be a crucial ally . I will travel there shortly and intend to go to the area affect . it be vital that Lebanon ' s border , in both the east and the south , be secure . that be vital for their security , as well as for our . british national Jimmy Lai be currently in solitary confinement in a prison in Hong Kong . he have be there for five year . he be 78 year of age , he be in ill health and his trial will come to an end very soon . ahead of the Asia - Pacific Economic Co - operation summit , what representation have the Foreign Secretary make to the White House to ensure that when President Trump meet President Xi , the case of Jimmy Lai will be raise , as it have be in the last 36 hour by a cross - party group of 38 US Senators ? we continue to be deeply distress by this case and continue to make representation , discuss the case with the US and stay in contact with Jimmy Lai ' s family . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I would like to apologise for not take the direction of the Chair yesterday . first , I thank the hon . member for her point of order and for her apology . I would add that should any Member need any advice on the rule and convention of the House , the Clerks be always available to assist . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . and not to apologise on this occasion — yet . there be still time . I will give it a minute ! at business question last week , I put it to the Leader of the House that he should afford time for my early - day motion in respect of Prince Andrew to be hear . he intimate that option be always available to member to pursue that , so in due course I write to the Prime Minister , seek clarity that we would get that opportunity . since then , there have be further revelation with regard to Prince Andrew host not just Harvey Weinstein but the notorious paedophile Jeffrey Epstein at the Royal Lodge in Windsor . there have be suggestion that this House and this Parliament can take action on his succession and his place in line to the throne , and that we may well end up compensate Prince Andrew , should he move out of the Royal Lodge . may I have guidance from you , Mr Speaker , as to how I solicit an early response from the Prime Minister to my correspondence ? we nearly do have an apology . may I first say thank you to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order ? as I know he be aware , I make a statement on Thursday last week at the start of business that provide some clarification on way in which this House can properly consider the matter . in raise this point of order , the right hon . Member have place on record his letter to the Prime Minister and the early - day motion table in his name . the scheduling of time for debate be not a matter for the Chair . I know that the right hon . Member will continue to seek way in which to pursue the issue and he have already remind the Treasury Bench of what he wish . I will leave it there . opposition Day - [ 11th Allotted Day ] opposition Day Stamp Duty Land Tax I inform the House that I have not select the amendment . I call the shadow Chancellor to move the motion . I beg to move , that this House call on the Government to reduce public expenditure to fund the abolition of stamp duty land tax on primary residence purchase by UK resident , in order to get Britain work , to grow the economy and to give people a strong stake in their community through the security of home ownership . there come a time in the career of some in this House when they stand too close to the edge , when they play with fire and when they fly too close to the sun . to continue that astronomical metaphor , we have a Chancellor who have truly throw herself headlong into a colossal black hole entirely of her making . the Chancellor have trash our economy and she will blame anybody but herself : the Office for Budget Responsibility , the legacy , the Conservative party , Donald Trump , Brexit — whatever it be , as long as it be not herself . however , we on the conservative Benches know the clear truth . we know exactly what have happen to our economy . we know that we have a Government who , when they be in opposition , say that there be no way they would be put up taxis leave , right and centre , yet within 18 short month have do precisely that , layer up taxis on business and destroy growth at the same time as talk down our economy . then there be the fictitious £ 22 billion black hole which , ironically , be debunk as not legitimise by the OBR at the behest of the Labour party itself . we know that Labour have borrow colossal amount of money and be due to spend around half a trillion pound more than the plan it inherit . what have be the consequence of that ? it have be elevate inflation . we now have the high inflation in the G7 , and the International Monetary Fund tell we that next year we will once again have the high inflation in the G7 . the consequence of that , through monetary policy , be that interest rate will be high for long , bear down on those who have mortgage and on business who wish to borrow . critically , when it come to our burgeon national debt , which be soar under this Government , the cost of service that debt be now run at £ 100 billion a year , rise to £ 130 billion across this Parliament . that be twice what we spend on defence . indeed , if the servicing of our debt be a Department of Government , it would be the third large in Whitehall . none of that money be go on public service . it be simply go to pay off the creditor who be owe money as a consequence of the profligacy of the Labour party . would the right hon . Gentleman agree that Liz Truss ' s disastrous mini - Budget impact on work family up and down this country , result in the astronomical mortgage interest rate that they be still struggle to fund ? we will take no lesson from the Labour party when it come to the mismanagement of our economy . what I have just set out have lead to a Chancellor who have a Budget in October last year in which she blow all the headroom and more , rebuild it in the spring and be now , as we all know , head into the Budget on 26 November with a gape black hole that she will have to fill . that be due to economic incompetence and it be cause huge uncertainty . I speak to business up and down the country . none of they know what to expect . they be all fearful about the tax rise that be yet to come , and that be down to this Chancellor . the consequence be that we have the high level of unemployment in four year . we know that every other Labour Government in history have leave office with unemployment high than that it be when they come into office . in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector alone , 90 , 000 job have be destroy under this government . young people be bear the brunt of these policy . under the Conservatives , youth unemployment fall by around 45 % . under the last Labour Government , it rise by around the same amount , and this Government be on course to do that too . young people be particularly affect , because the national insurance change involve not just an increase in the rate but a reduction in the threshold . that affect young people who be desperate to get their first job and their foot on the career ladder the most . do my right hon . friend agree that , even in such a short period of time , this Government be show that it be they who can not be trust with the economy and the future of this country ? be it not time they wake up to the reality ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we see that in inflation , which be run at about twice the Bank of England ' s target and about twice the rate that this Government inherit from we on the day of the general election . within that , we see food inflation rocket up at over 4 % , damage and impoverish the very people that labour claim to want to stand up for . do my right hon . friend agree that we also see hypocrisy ? an example would be Cabinet Ministers who say " build , baby , build " while at the same time write letter to the Mayor of London try to block home in their constituency . as usual , my right hon . friend make a characteristically poignant point . there be another act of damage that this Government have create : some of the most successful high net worth wealth creator in our country have simply go ; they have leave . it be estimate that 16 , 000 have go over the time that this Government have be in office . socialist will say , " who care ? good riddance ! " , but they should dwell on the fact that the tax pay by those 16 , 000 people be probably equivalent to between a third of a million and half a million people on average earning . hard - work people up and down our country be pay the price of labour ' s policy . there be choice ; it do not have to be like this . we can reduce taxis if we get on top of and control Government spending . at my party ' s conference , we set out £ 47 billion - worth of saving across Government , include £ 23 billion in saving across the welfare budget . what do the Government do when they try to tackle the welfare budget ? they show we that this be a Dad ' s Army of a Government with a Captain Mainwaring of a Chancellor . they be no match even for the rabble behind they . we know that we need to have responsible tax cut . that mean that they need to be fund and they need to lean into growth . that be why we have announce that , be we in government , we would be abolish stamp duty on primary residence . it be one of the bad taxis in our tax system . the OBR state that a 1 % increase in stamp duty would lead to a decrease of between 5 % and 7 % in the number of transaction , yet on this Government ' s watch , the stamp duty due on a home value at £ 300 , 000 will have double during their time in office . the shadow Chancellor be make a powerful speech . be he aware that recently in the Treasury Committee we be give evidence by a range of tax specialist , all of whom endorse abolish stamp duty ? yes , and I thank my hon . friend for the excellent work that she have be do on the Committee , particularly when she chair it in the last Parliament . do my right hon . friend agree that this Government be not only tax young people ' s job but tax their chance of own a home through the increase in stamp duty and the rumour increase on the capital gain on principal private residence ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the reason that we need to abolish this tax include the fact that it stand in the way of young people get on to the housing ladder . to use the word of Paul Johnson , it " gum up " the entire system of house purchasing in our country . he say : " it may look like a tax on wealthy people who move house but it also act to reduce effective supply for everyone . " that include first - time buyer . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that stamp duty also gum up mobility , so that people be unable to move , and if they lose their job under this Labour Government it will be more expensive for they to move to another house ? my hon . friend be exactly right . the tax do precisely that . it stop people move to where the work be , to get well job and further themselves . who want to move to one place and pay stamp duty , and then move to another to pay more stamp duty ? it do not add up . be my right hon . friend aware of the study by Jackson - Stops , which look at people age 55 and over to see how much abolishing stamp duty would help to move the market along ? the study estimate that in the first year , abolish the tax would allow 500 , 000 people to downsize to free up home for family , and in the second year , 1 . 4 million . stamp duty be a real blocker . do he agree that that study show the power of this policy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the tax be a blocker on the aspiration of those who be grow their family and simply want to find a home with more bedroom . often , they can not find those home because empty nester — those whose child have leave home — be not prepared to face the huge , eyewatere stamp duty involve . be not the reality that people can not find home in England because his government fail to build they while in power ? we build 2 . 8 million home since 2010 , and a million in the last Parliament . it remain to be see how many home this Government will build . another huge advantage of abolish stamp duty be that it will generate more transaction , which will benefit more plumber , electrician , builder , designer , estate agent , surveyor and conveyancer , and allow local economy to thrive . above all , it will increase the effective supply of housing , and that mean a fair society and a strong economy . the shadow Chancellor talk about the huge advantage of his proposal . be he aware that someone who own a home worth £ 2 million would benefit to the tune of £ 150 , 000 ? this be a tax cut for millionaire . be that what he want ? I have already apprise the hon . gentleman of the fact that on his party ' s watch , 16 , 000 high - net - worth people have leave the country , to the huge detriment of our economy . we can not tax our way to growth . we have to abolish this tax across the piece , and that be recognise by think - tank across the political spectrum . indeed , the Institute of Economic Affairs say : " Abolishing stamp duty be the single good reform any government could make to Britain ' s tax system . " the Resolution Foundation , which may be more to Labour Members ' taste , say of stamp duty that it be " one of the most economically harmful way of raise revenue " . that be a simple fact . do my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor accept that the housing market be virtually stagnant ? it be moribund . the house and flat that we want in this country be not be build , and one of the barrier be that the cost of stamp duty be so high that individual do not want to pay it . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I have already set out the estimate from the OBR that a 1 % increase in stamp duty mean a 5 % to 7 % reduction in transaction . it be a horrendous and terrible tax , and it remain to be see whether Labour member choose to defend it . the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) talk about millionaire get a tax cut , but we be talk about young family get on the ladder . do my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor agree that while Labour member engage in the politic of envy , we will always engage in the politic of hope ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as Paul Johnson , formerly of the Institute for Fiscal Studies — I quote he early — say , this tax " also act to reduce effective supply for everyone " right across every age and every section of the income scale . if only the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) — I see he be not in his place — who be a former director of the Resolution Foundation , could show some backbone and at least agree with his former self and the quote that I read out from the Resolution Foundation . the fact be clear : the Government should support this motion today if they believe in growth , a fair society and a strong economy . as we approach the Budget , through a period of great uncertainty , the Chancellor face a clear choice — a choice between still high taxis , and control spending and get taxis down ; between continued anaemic growth and get the size of the Government under control ; between destroy job , and get people off benefit and into work ; and between do the right thing for our country and simply duck the challenge . the opposition know what must be do , even at this late stage , to save our economy . perhaps even the Chancellor herself know , deep in her heart , that we be right . yet be it not the truth that face with the serried rank of obstinate delusion array behind she , she be just too weak to act ? no plan , no backbone — no wonder that under this government we be stare into the abyss . I thank the shadow Chancellor for open today ' s debate with characteristic theatricality . I know that Opposition member be desperate to forget their time in office . they be desperate for we all to forget the damage that they cause to the economy and to public service on their watch . surely , however , they can not have forget how the Budget process work , so they will know that no Treasury Minister , particularly in the week immediately before a Budget , will speculate on tax change . any decision on tax will be take at the Budget by the Chancellor in the usual way — [ interruption . ] I see surprised face among Opposition Members , but I remind they that that be how the Budget process work . they will know that the OBR produce a forecast , and the Chancellor will take decision in the round base on that forecast when she present the Budget to this House on 26 November . notwithstanding those limitation on what I , and indeed any Minister , can say , I will seek to address some of the idea that the opposition have try to raise with this motion . first , let we be honest : stamp duty be hardly a popular tax . move house and buy a home be a complex and often stressful process , and stamp duty must be pay at a point when most people probably feel they have enough to worry about already . if there be a cost - free way to get rid of stamp duty , I would not expect long queue of people line up to keep it . but there be , of course , no cost - free way of do so . figure show that the tax raise £ 13 . 9 billion in 2024 - 25 . at this Government ' s first Budget , we make change to stamp duty to help to give first - time buyer , and other people who be buy a home to live in , an advantage over those who be buy second , third or further home . if an Opposition party propose get rid of a tax that raise nearly £ 14 billion a year , it need a plan for do so . be a credible opposition mean propose thing that could actually work . frankly , the motion expose the current conservative party ' s total lack of seriousness , and its complete failure to learn any of the lesson of its time in office . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury indicate that if there be a plan to fund the proposal , he would back it . the shadow Chancellor have clearly set out that we do have a plan to fund it , so will the Chief Secretary back it ? the right hon . Lady be attempt to bring some humour to the Chamber by pretend that the opposition have some kind of a plan for their proposal . to call their motion half - baked would be not to go far enough . in fact , it show the recklessness in their approach to the economy . it may be Halloween on Friday , but the ghost of Liz Truss be here today , because the economic recklessness that the former Prime Minister embody be back in front of we in this Chamber . we have a half - bake motion from the opposition , build on the wholly unworkable premise of more unfunded tax cut . three year on from their disastrous mini - Budget , they have learn precisely nothing . rise — I will be interested to hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s link . I will be interested to hear what the Minister intend to do to un - gum the housing market . I think he will accept that it be an important part of our economy and he say that he be very keen on growth , so what will he do to un - gum it ? and what do he say to those legion of tradespeople — electrician , plumber and kitchen fitter — who be all look to the Government to provide they with some relief in the month ahead ? I would say to everyone who work in build home that Labour be the party that be get on with building : we be make change to the planning system to get those home build . despite his attempt to make a link to my previous comment , I notice that the right hon . Gentleman do not address that fact that this motion be entirely half - baked . it be a genuine shame for british politic that we have an opposition who think that they can put forward a motion like this for serious debate in the House of Commons . to be fair , the conservative party be steep in century of be in Opposition and in Government , but it have become deeply unserious by put forward motion such as the one today . the motion simply say that the Conservatives ' plan to abolish stamp duty be " to reduce public expenditure " ; that it be — that be the sum of their plan . the Minister be right to say that the opposition have not be clear about how they would fund this tax cut , but there be some clue . the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , tell a fringe event at the Tory party conference that we should look at the australian system of state pension and " essentially " a means - test state pension . do my right hon . friend share my concern that under the Tories the state pension would be under threat ? my hon . friend be right to point out that the state pension would be under threat be the Conservatives to win the next general election . he be also right to draw the House ' s attention to comment make by Conservative Members at their party conference . they may think that people be not listen to what they say at those conference fringe meeting , but we get the report so we know exactly what they say . from their recent conference , we know that they think that they can find some £ 47 billion through cut to public spending , as the shadow Chancellor say , but let we look at the detail . at least half of those fantasy saving come from a welfare plan that amount to a menu with no price : a list of measure that the Conservatives say will raise £ 23 billion in total , but with no breakdown whatsoever of how . in June last year , just as they be on their way out of Downing Street , they say that they could cut £ 12 billion from the welfare bill . now they have double that without explanation . frankly , if the shadow Chancellor think that he have any credibility on this matter , he be sadly mistaken . he be far from the good person to make this argument , give that he personally oversee the big increase in benefit spend in decade during his time as the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . the Minister be in no position to lecture on reduce the size of the state , give that when Labour attempt to reduce the welfare bill , it march all of its mps up the hill , only to march they down again , when it buckle under the pressure from its own Back Benchers . as member from both side of the House know , we be determined to get people back into work , because that be the way to bring the welfare and benefit bill down , and to make people well off . what be not the right thing to do for this country be to follow the Conservatives ' plan for £ 47 billion of cut , for which they have no plan and that would represent nothing less than a return to austerity . if their £ 47 billion be to come from cut to public service , that would mean 85 , 700 few nurse , cut every police officer in the country twice and cut the entire armed force . funnily enough , none of that detail be in their motion today . to have propose the motion be a shame for british politic , because with the Conservatives ' long history , they really should know well . be it to be the Greens , Plaid Cymru or reform propose policy with little regard for the consequence , I would not be surprised because they have never have a chance to implement they , but to see the party that be in charge for 14 year act this recklessly show just how far it have fall . the Minister be always generous with his time and always have a smile , which be a welcome thing in this Chamber . government spending this year be approach £ 1 , 300 billion , but minister could not save £ 5 billion because of their own Back Benchers . be it his complete failure to make even the small saving on that monumental budget that make he find it impossible to believe that other would have the will to do so ? what I find it impossible to believe from the Conservatives be that they now have a shadow Chancellor who claim to have a plan for £ 23 billion of welfare cut , when he himself preside over the big increase in welfare spending in decade when he be the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . that be the record that give he no credibility whatsoever in this debate . in their motion , the Conservatives also claim that they want " to get Britain work , to grow the economy and to give people a strong stake in their community " . yet they spend their whole time try to claim that Britain be break . they have join the rank of those who be try to co - opt our flag for their own end by claim that it be in tatter . I can not believe that so many who claim to be proud of our country be so willing to talk it down . our country be not break ; we be a great country , fill with great people and great business . we be willing to roll up our sleeve and work together for a great future . however , it be clear that many people across our country feel stuck . under the last government , our economy stall , our public service be starve and opportunity dry up . the Minister be always generous with his time — I thank he for give way — and I be always smile in the Chamber , as the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) will know . conservative Members seem to be suffer from collective amnesia . will my right hon . Friend remind I if the national debt go up or down under the last government ? [ interruption . ] my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the Conservatives ' record . [ interruption . ] in 2010 , I think the national debt be about 67 % of gdp , but it be about 100 % by the time that they leave office . order . member on both side of the Chamber be have their own conversation on the side . I can not hear the Minister — and everybody want to hear the Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . I be confirm what I think everyone in the Chamber know about how bad the previous Government ' s record on the economy be . we know why that record be so bad . it be because previous Ministers fail to invest , and we know that investment be the fuel for our economic engine . that be why we be take a different approach . on help Ministers with amnesia , do the right hon . Gentleman acknowledge that there be a pandemic that require a huge amount of intervention , or be he claim that he would not have support so many people during that period ? speak of amnesia , a lot of conservative have forget Liz Truss and be not prepared to talk about the impact she have . speak of amnesia , would the right hon . gentleman like to remind the House what the deficit be in 2010 , when we first form a government ? be you bear by that time , Minister ? I have definitely be bear by that time , Mr Speaker . I be do my math very rapidly , but I can be confident in say that . I seem to have quite lose my way after your intervention , Mr Speaker , but let I return to the main thrust of the argument that I be make a few moment ago . we be a serious government who be a serious partner for the private sector , which be why we be invest in thing that will get our country move again . it be early day ; the damage that the Tories do will take time to unpick and there will be more difficult decision ahead , but since we come to power , this Government have announce £ 250 billion of new investment commitment , create ten of thousand of job . the Bank of England have cut interest rate five time , mean that someone on a tracker mortgage of just over £ 200 , 000 be already around £ 100 a month well off . we have cut red tape and change planning regulation so that we can deliver 1 . 5 million new home over the course of this Parliament . we have act to accelerate the construction of nearly 100 , 000 new home , which be previously stick . we be the fast - grow G7 economy in the first half of this year . Most telling of all , since the general election real wage have rise by more than they do in the first 10 year of the Conservative Government . the Conservatives ' answer to the nation ' s challenge be always the same : austerity . they want to cut spending , increase debt and accept decline . in contrast , we will never accept austerity and we will never gamble with the public finance . another term for austerity be " live within your mean " . that be what the british public understand , and that be the point we be try to make in this debate . when the Government have need to make difficult decision , they have fall short . can the Minister explain why the Government be not live within their mean ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the Chancellor ' s fiscal rule say that day - to - day spending must be pay for through tax receipt . that be the definition of live within our mean . those fiscal rule be meet at the first Budget last year and at the spring statement this year . they be an iron - clothe commitment , and we will continue to meet those fiscal rule next month at the autumn Budget . those fiscal rule underpin our approach to the economy and to strong public finance . we know that fiscal responsibility , which the previous Government abandon , underpin a stable economy , and we need to secure our country ' s renewal through public and private investment . we want to secure rise wage , support for business , more job , more home and more opportunity in every corner of our country . the motion before this House today simply be not serious . it be an admission from Conservative Members that after year in power and countless opportunity to reflect and learn from their mistake , all they can come up with be the same fail solution : more unfunded tax cut , more cut to public service , more failure to invest , more austerity and more pain for the british people . that be what will keep they on the Opposition Benches for a very long time . we reject their recklessness , we reject their lack of ambition for our country and we reject this motion . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . our tax system be a mess . it be complicated and unfair . it be riddle with cliff edge that distort behaviour and create inequity , and there be exemption that have not be review for year . council tax be outdate and hate . inheritance tax and capital gain allow the super - wealthy to exploit loophole while the squeeze middle pick up the tab . business rate be a tax on brick and mortar that penalise our high street while online giant corner more and more of the market . IR35 be a sledgehammer to crack a nut for contractor , and research and development tax credit be in such a muddle that they be trigger lot of dispute , even for legitimate claim . when any one of those taxis be tweak , it cause problem elsewhere . time and again , we see that when people want to do the right thing and pay the right amount of tax or query a tax issue , they call his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , only to have the call handler hang up , or they contact the Valuation Office Agency and have to spend money on an expensive third party that specialise in dispute . stamp duty have all the hallmark of a bad tax . it be a transaction tax and an extra cost that stop people from move , when they might want to move to start a family , to take up a new job or to take on caring responsibility . it prevent people from get on the housing ladder , from upsize and sometimes from downsize . it gum up the housing market in a country where we simply can not afford for that to happen . it disincentivise people from move and hold back a dynamic economy . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson be make some excellent point . will she therefore support the motion ? no — for all the reason that I will come to . the hon . Gentleman be a fraction too early . here ' s the rub : stamp duty raise a lot of money , and that be presumably why the Conservatives do not seek to scrap it at any point during all their year in power . stamp duty for primary residence in England and Northern Ireland raise around £ 4 billion in 2023 - 24 , and it be suggest that it will raise £ 9 billion in 2029 - 30 . the Institute for Fiscal Studies estimate that the cost in 2029 - 30 will be around £ 11 billion , with the additional cost in Scotland and Wales take into account . that mean that abolish stamp duty on primary residence would cost in the region of £ 36 billion to £ 44 billion in total over the next five year . for anybody who be not keep up , that be almost the cost of the mini - Budget , just in slow motion . the Conservatives say that they want all those cut to come from public expenditure , but in this motion they do not say where those saving would come from . by my calculation , they could choose to scrap nearly the whole of the Ministry of Justice — give revelation in recent day about prisoner be let out wrongly , it feel like that may already have happen . the Conservatives could instead decide to end all support for farmer by scrap the entirety of the budget for the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , which reach £ 7 . 4 billion in 2028 - 29 , include capital — [ interruption . ] well , it do not say that in the motion . maybe they would want to do away with the cost of clear the vast majority of the NHS maintenance backlog — a cost they would reach in a single year — or maybe they would want to scrap the £ 12 billion a year budget for special educational need and disability . it be not clear in the official Opposition motion where the cut would come from . there be a strong case for look at reform or scrap stamp duty all together , alongside other property tax reform and move to a land value tax . indeed , some commentator suggest that scrap stamp duty and council tax together and phase in a land value tax over time could be one way to move ahead . the average price of a property in St Albans be £ 642 , 000 a year . under the proposal of the hon . Lady ' s party , how do she think her constituent would face pay ever more taxis , either through stamp duty land tax or the council tax reform that she and her colleague propose ? as the right hon . Gentleman will understand , I be not set out proposal ; I be comment on the proposal from his party . for the record , I be not set out liberal Democrat policy ; I be discuss what some commentator have point towards . I be sure that in the next two or three year , as we get close to the general election , the Conservatives will be very interested to read our tax plan , which be under active consideration . even if people can not agree on what should replace stamp duty , they can agree on this : if we change one tax in isolation , there be knock - on negative effect . far from give more people the security of home ownership , this measure in isolation would put it far out of reach . how do we know that ? we know it because there be a big surge in house price during the temporary stamp duty holiday in 2020 - 21 ; it have a negative impact on house buyer . if the Conservatives — and , indeed , the Government — be truly interested in grow the economy , surely they will agree that the good and most immediate way to do so be to reverse the damage of their terrible Brexit deal with Europe . analysis show that if the Government do a well deal with the EU , within their own red line , they would raise an additional £ 25 billion per year by unleash the growth potential of our export british business . we ' ve hear this one before ! well , I ' ll say it again . the way to grow our economy be to do away with the 2 billion piece of paperwork that have come in since Brexit : enough paper to wrap around the world 15 time — and yet still the Conservatives groan . fifteen month ago , it seem as though the Conservatives be struggle to adjust to life in opposition ; now it seem that they be simply enjoy it far too much . that be precisely why the idea of abolish stamp duty in isolation and fund it through cut to public service alone be fantasy economic and desperate politic . the announcement at the Conservative party conference have everything to do with the Leader of the opposition keep herself in post until after May ' s election and nothing to do with make a serious contribution to the debate on tax reform . this motion be unfunded , unserious and not worth the paper it be write on , and that be why we will not support it . let we get straight to the point : what we be discuss today be a Tory plan for tax cut for the well off , with no plan to pay for it . that be what the Tories have choose to spend their Opposition day on . my constituent be frustrate by the stark regional inequality in our country that mean that London and the south - east be , economically speak , another country all together . they lament the lack of public investment in transport , infrastructure and skill that this Labour Government be seek to put right , so it be staggering that the Tories have choose to propose tax cut for people buy expensive home in London and the south - east , far entrench that regional inequality . in the north - west , the average house price be about £ 200 , 000 ; in London , it be over £ 550 , 000 . that mean that 95 % of first - time buyer in the north - west of England do not pay stamp duty , whereas 80 % of they in London do . these be , let we be clear , the priority of the same old conservative party we have always know : the protection of wealth in the south - east above the concern of constituent such as mine . where would their suppose spending cut fall ? the motion do not tell we , so we can only assume that they would fall on public service in area such as Pendle and Clitheroe . the funny thing be that I be a strong advocate for serious property tax reform , but the Tories be not propose to address the most unfair , regressive tax in Britain , which be council tax . our council tax system punish working - class people in the north precisely because they live in a poor area . can you believe , Madam Deputy Speaker , that someone live in a £ 1 million London townhouse will pay £ 1 , 000 less per year in council tax than a constituent of mine live in a house worth £ 250 , 000 ? it bear repeat — £ 1 , 000 less for someone who live in a £ 1 million London townhouse than for someone who live in a £ 250 , 000 house . that be outrageous , and if the Conservatives be still a serious party , perhaps they would focus on council tax , which be so emblematic of the regional inequality I have just mention . those inequality have condemn once - prosperous region of the country to steady economic decline . the Conservatives will not do so , though , because they quite literally no long represent region such as mine . look across the Chamber , I can not see a north - west Conservative MP , but that be not surprising , because there be now only three — they be a rare specie , just as conservative mp be in many other region outside the south - east . the Conservatives ' answer remain the same as it have always be : that growth in the south - east will lift up constituency such as mine . " make those with wealth wealthy and everyone else will benefit " , they say , but that economic thinking have fail time and again . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to finish . property taxis in this country do need radical reform — on that , I hope I can find ally on all side of this House . we need a more proportional property tax , but the Tories ' hare - brain idea to scrap stamp duty — a big tax cut for the well - off in the south - east — with no plan to pay for it , while leave the regressive council tax untouched , be just not serious . I be very sorry to hear about the antipathy of the hon . member for Pendle and Clitheroe ( Jonathan Hinder ) towards the south - east . I can assure he that it be not reciprocate , and no doubt the London Members who may or may not be present for this debate will have something to say to he about the wealth and welfare of their resident . since this Government be elect , I have often call to mind the famous aphorism utter by Ronald Reagan about government ' approach to the economy : " if it move , tax it . if it keep move , regulate it . and if it stop move , subsidize it . " it feel to I as if , with housing in particular , we be move into the third of those phase . I contemplate with some alarm the idea that in chase their huge housing target — noble though it be , and share by the conservative party — the Government be about to pump enormous subsidy into the housing market in the Budget . that be precisely the wrong thing to do , particularly for a Government who be struggle to create growth in the economy . what the Government seem to have fail to realise be that if we allow capitalism to function — to do what it be suppose to do — it be brilliant at create abundance . it have be the single great tool for alleviate poverty across the world that humankind have ever know , yet here in this country , government — not just this Government but , to my alarm , previous government over the past 20 year or so — have not appreciate the formula of incentive require for capitalism to function . it be particularly damaging for it not to function within the housing market , and that be especially salient for the United Kingdom , whose economy be so closely tie to its domestic housing market . look at the correlation between the two , it be pretty much one to one : if the housing market be do well , our economy be do well , and vice versa . that point to the problem that stamp duty pose . I want to raise a few point about this motion , as well as to say that I agree entirely with the shadow Chancellor ' s excellent opening speech . first , stamp duty be not a tax on wealth , or even on property ; it be a tax on decision making . it skew people ' s ability to conduct their life as they wish to , and it deter decision from be make within the housing market and bung it up so that it do not work for anybody , wherever in that market they sit and whether or not they pay stamp duty . for capitalism to work — for a market to work — there need to be lot and lot of transaction . there need to be fluidity and liquidity . that be what achieve a steady price and create abundance ; people know that they can take a risk in a market , because they will find a counterparty . scarcity be what raise price , and that be exactly the position we find ourselves in at the moment . punitive rate of stamp duty do to the housing market precisely what none of we want they to do , which be to reward scarcity . they push people into other form of economic activity , with the result that they can not fulfil the wish and aspiration of their family . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman about the importance of create abundance in the housing market . do he therefore think it be wrong for his party and the Prime Minister at the time to come to my constituency during the general election and campaign against the new home be build there , which this country so desperately need ? I be Housing Minister for 12 golden month , during which , I be pleased to say , the United Kingdom achieve its high start and finish of housing for 10 year either side — not entirely due to my stewardship , but nevertheless , I will take the credit . I be with the hon . gentleman in want to encourage the building of a significant number of house , and I be very pleased that large number be to be build in my constituency , but they have to be build in the right place . we have to protect our landscape , our countryside and our heritage , while at the same time recognise that many of our market town need to grow and reach a sustainable size . we can have the house ; they just have to be in the right place . I also think that we would be able to embrace more housing if we be somehow able to breach the conspiracy of crap . excuse my language , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be a crass word , but it be a great way of sum up the fact that we be build terribly badly design house . there be a conspiracy between planner and the development community to produce ersatz housing across the country , rather than to build beautifully design house , as generation of housebuilder do before we . it will not come as a surprise to the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) that in his constituency , as in mine , the most valuable house — irrespective of size — be often the old one , date from the victorian era and even early period . georgian house command huge price , as they be see as desirable because of their beauty . we can have the house , as long as we put they in the right place and they look good . this stamp duty policy will help to lubricate the system , but my right hon . friend be talk about put the house in the right place . do he agree that this government really do need to follow through on that ? they have to prioritise brownfield site and stop bring in policy that will rip up the green belt , which represent the heart and lung of area such as mine . I completely agree with my hon . friend . back to scarcity again . no , the people well position to decide where house should go be local people . that be why , for many year , I have be a strong proponent of neighbourhood planning . it have be prove time and again that neighbourhood planning produce more house — 15 % to 20 % more — than other form of planning , especially local plan . if we get the design right and put power in the hand of local people , they will very often make the right choice , not just for their community but for the next generation . a point that the shadow Chancellor have make powerfully be that we should recognise that a gum - up housing market , which be currently stagnate , suppress the renovation and construction supply chain . when people move house , they invest in redecoration ; they invest in extension , put a new roof on the house , build on the side , and do all sort of thing to their new house that be good , valuable , productive economic activity . at the moment , we be miss out on that activity . I commend the right hon . gentleman for what he be say , and I commend the opposition on bring forward this debate . in Northern Ireland , house price have rise by 7 . 7 % , which be the high in all the United Kingdom . what be happen in my constituency — I suspect other member have have this — be that young people be come up to I and say , " I can not get a mortgage . " they need help . I hope that the proposal bring forward by the opposition can give that hope . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the aspiration , which I have as well , that every person want to own their own house . this proposal would be a method of ensure that young people have that opportunity . I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s hope for the next generation , and I completely agree with he . as somebody with three child , I hope they get the same housing opportunity and economic opportunity as I do . sadly , give how the housing market have go and be go , it do not look as if that will be the case , but he neatly make the point that I make in open my speech . to get young people on the housing ladder , a subsidy scheme would see we come full circle . instead , we should think again about how we can have a deregulated free market that function for they and allow the house to be build that can accommodate they . take tax off young people and then give it back in the form of housing subsidy be nonsensical . to return to my point on the supply chain , thousand of small builder around the country be desperate for this kind of work and be see the housing market stagnate and their work reduce . worse than that , in area of high property value , those who do have capital decide , instead of move , to build down , up or out . we therefore get densification , particularly in area such as central London , which often cause significant problem . move on , this tax do not work very well for Government either . first , as member will know , it be pro - cyclical and crash when the Government need it most . during the 2007 - 08 crash , stamp duty receipt fall by 60 % . we see a surge in stamp duty receipt during the window a year or so ago , but since then , they have be fall significantly . the Chancellor , who be face significant fiscal problem , will see that fall even far , so the tax do not work for Government on that basis . secondly , stamp duty be a bad tax because of its salience . economist have this idea that taxis have a salience , which be how much people notice they be be take . vat have low salience , because we do not really notice it . it be in the price that we pay . income tax and pay - as - you - earn have low salience . stamp duty be enormously noticeable at a moment when people be make a huge decision about their life . they be try to progress their family and wham , here come the Government say , " we be go to have a slice of your wealth . " my right hon . friend be make a brilliant speech . on salience , do he acknowledge that stamp duty have have a particularly pronounce effect in the capital , particularly for those who come to this country to invest here and create job ? one of the prime reason we have see such a significant number — perhaps 16 , 000 people — leave this country be the incidence of that tax in the capital . my right hon . friend be completely right , and he make a powerful point . anybody , whether overseas or here , who come anywhere in the country , but particularly to London and the south - east , and want to make a significant purchase be immediately present with a massive bill that can not be borrow . it come out of any equity that they may have spare lie around or that they may have save up for year to build towards their housing decision . for the Government to show up and take it at that moment of significance in anybody ' s life be extremely damaging . it be the same when the Government show up on the death of a relative and say , " we will take our slice . " such taxis have enormous salience . as a result , stamp duty and inheritance tax be easily the two most unpopular taxis in the country . the right hon . Gentleman be be generous with his time and be put forward interesting point . it surprise I that nobody on the Opposition Benches bring these point forward in the 14 year they be in power . stamp duty land tax be not a new tax ; it be a tax that go up under the last government , yet the Conservatives have bring forward no proposal on it until this unfunded announcement at party conference a few week ago . the hon . Lady should not assume from the outward utterance that there be not an internal conversation go on within the party about our tax strategy . those in the Chamber who share the Cabinet table with I will know that that be often a vigorous conversation . I will leave it at that . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in a minute . the third point I want to make , which I guess be the one that might appeal most to Government Members , be that this tax be generationally unfair . young people move house more often , so they be more exposed to this tax . the young someone be , the more likely they be to be build a family , to require more space , and to be move up the ladder . old people tend to sit still . they sit pretty on their capital , which be often in unmortgaged house . because of the lack of a market , they generally under - occupy the house they own . when look at stamp duty , we have to look at generational fairness , too . in my constituency , hundred and hundred of aspirational family need more space . they would like to move up the ladder . they have work hard and accumulate a deposit and the money that would allow they to move , but they want to spend that money on curtain , carpet , decoration and all the rest of it . they be deter from move by this tax . if we be to be fair to the next generation , we have to not only build the house that they want to buy , but make it cheap for they to buy they , and that mean cancel stamp duty . for all those reason — to ensure fluidity and liquidity in a market that be skew to produce artificially high price ; to ensure a market in which developer take a risk and build more house , and landowner put land forward ; but fundamentally for a generation who be be deny access to housing — we need to take seriously the idea that stamp duty be at the heart of the problem , and we need to abolish it entirely . the Liberal Democrats say that abolish it will raise price . it of course raise price if we tell people that there be a window . that would result in frantic activity from those who be desperate to buy . if the abolition become permanent , we get a liquid market that achieve a real price , notwithstanding the initial bump . as for those who say that the saving can not be find , we should be able to find this amount of money , give the size of the Government ' s budget , as my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) say . I have a look this morning , and I could find 50 % of the amount in the Department for Transport ' s budget , no problem . the other half could come from the welfare reform on which the Labour party bottle it . we could easily find the money and do the whole country and the economy an enormous favour . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his speech , and for his fight and campaign within his party in favour of abundance and against scarcity . I hope it be a fight that he can win , give the damage do by there not be enough of that attitude when the Conservatives be in power . give that this debate can not be isolate from the issue of the supply of housing , I hope that at the next election , I will not see Conservative leaflet after Conservative leaflet against build the new home that this country so desperately need . I thank the Opposition for bring forward this debate , and I will start with a few point on which I hope we can agree . stamp duty be a dreadful tax . it discourage behaviour that we should want to encourage : people move out of home that no long suit they , and into property that do . as many other have mention , stamp duty deter people from downsize , which mean few family home become available for those who need they . in much of London and the south - east , where housing cost be already painfully high , that make move almost prohibitively expensive . when , for various reason , the demand side of the housing market be struggle , stamp duty be also a barrier to build the home that this country so desperately need . when it come to the drive to campaign against stamp duty , there be a lot to agree with , and we should find a path to remove it . however , I can not support the motion for two reason . first , a tax cut of around £ 9 billion must come with an honest explanation of how it will be pay for , as have be say . if there be apparently ten of billion of pound - worth of cut that we could make to the state , we can only conclude that it be pretty negligent of the previous Government not to make they in their 14 year in power . when they be hand out redundancy notice to police officer , why be they not make those cut instead ? unfunded tax cut be either a return to Liz Truss or a return to Tory austerity . there be a second , perhaps more important , point . I fear that the motion ' s focus on stamp duty alone be too narrow . as be mention , we need a wide conversation about property taxis . the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) be wrong in one regard . I use to work in market research , and I know that stamp duty and inheritance tax be not the most unpopular taxis ; council tax be consistently the most unpopular . do the hon . Gentleman regret the fact that his Government have not honour their pre - election promise to reduce council tax ? I will make some comment about the unfairness of the council tax system in a moment . we can have a conversation about tax and spend , and there be a much wide conversation to have , but today ' s debate focus on a very specific cut in a very specific part of property taxation , and there be a problem with have that conversation in isolation , rather than have the big , bold , politically braver conversation that I would like the opposition to start about wide reform of our property tax market . I must say that I be encourage by the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . for once , he be not purely engage in the " 14 year of failure " rhetoric of the Labour party . he recognise that stamp duty be a bad tax , and he say that we need a proper , join - up and deeply - think - through approach to get rid of it . be he pledge to lead such an operation in the Labour party ? give that for the next four year there will be 400 - plus Labour mp , the debate within his party be more important than the one within ours . I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman have ask I to comment on the 14 year of Tory failure — year in which his party fail to grow the british economy and create a number of the problem that the country face . while the shadow Chancellor make many good remark in his opening speech , there be a little bit of amnesia about the state of affair that be leave to this Government . however , we do need an honest conversation about tax reform , include reform of property taxis . we have speak a little about what the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say , and the IFS be right . the UK essentially rely on two big but fairly broken property taxis . council tax do not create the distortion that stamp duty create , but it be regressive ; stamp duty create distortion , but it be at least progressive , and mitigate some of the regressive element of council tax . if we look at only one half of the equation and simply cut stamp duty , we will tilt the system far in favour of the wealthy household , many of they in London and the south - east , while tell low and middle - income family elsewhere that there be nothing in the system for they . we should consider just how unfair council tax have become . give that the top band be cap so lightly , the bill for a modest family home in the north or the midland can be similar to that for a multimillion - pound townhouse in London . Paul Johnson , formerly of the IFS , have already be quote , but let I read out a tweet from he : " Buckingham Palace , value at around £ 1bn , sit in band H and be charge £ 1 , 828 by Westminster City Council , less than an average three - bedroom semi in Blackpool . . . 46 % of household in England will receive a big council - tax bill than the Palace . " that be clearly a broken tax system , and if we ignore that and focus solely on stamp duty , we will only make thing bad . moreover , because successive government have not have the bravery to revalue , the tax band be still base on 1991 value . in 1991 , Tim Berners - Lee have just invent the world wide web , Nirvana have just release " nevermind " , Will Smith be film the first series of " the Fresh Prince of Bel - Air " , and I have not be bear . a lot have change since then , yet we have still not reform the way in which we carry out council tax valuation . so yes , I agree that we should set a path to reduce stamp duty and ultimately reform the way in which we deal with it , but that should be part of a broad package that shift tax away from transaction and towards ongoing occupation of high - value property . it could include revaluation and re - banding of council tax , so that bill reflect today ' s value . there could be a high rate or surcharge for the most expensive property , and target relief to support downsizer and first - time buyer . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? yes , go on . last time . the hon . Gentleman be give a brilliant speech , I must say , and give the energy that he be bring to it , it " smell like Teen Spirit " to I . I agree with most of the point that he make about council tax . it be outrageous what we see when we compare the tax on a small flat in Beverley with that on a multimillion - pound apartment in Westminster . do he recognise that the cut in business property relief will impose huge cost on business , such as house builder , one of which I meet last week ? if that business be worth £ 100 million , say , on the death of the owner , the tax would be £ 20 million , and the person inherit the business would have to extract £ 40 million in order to pay it . that house builder tell I that for every £ 40 million take out of the business , there would be £ 120 million of investment not make in housing . do the hon . Gentleman accept that that be a real problem ? with respect , I think that I have already take the debate a little bit away from stamp duty , and I do not want to go into the wide tax system — although , as I have say , it be important to broaden the debate and engage in a wide conversation about property taxis , as I have try to do . if the opposition genuinely want to remove stamp duty , I invite they to engage in that wide conversation in good faith . if we want to remove cost at the point of transaction for those buy high - value home , it be only fair to ask they to contribute more through day - to - day charge . such a system would be fair , would support mobility , and would meet the objective that I think be share by member on both side of the House : a housing market that work , more building , and a tax system that be both pro - growth and fiscally responsible . stamp duty be the bad kind of tax ; there seem to be cross - party consensus on that point today . it stand in the way of the aspire young couple who want to buy their first home , or move on and bring up a family . it punish the old couple who want to downsize to a more suitable home once their family have fly the nest . it stifle growth and restrict mobility , and it have become so complex that it confuse even Deputy Prime Ministers . it be in all our interest to simplify it , and we can do that by abolish it , so that we can get the housing market move once again . member on both side of the House have say that the market be bung up , and it absolutely be . so many property have be on the market for many month , not sell . that apply to house at all point on the housing chain , not just multimillion - pound house ; but if those multimillion - pound house do not sell , house throughout the chain will also not sell , which have an impact on young people , family and old people throughout the country . we have make a commitment to unshackle our housing market by abolish stamp duty on primary residence . I be extremely pleased when that be announce at the Conservative party conference a few week ago . I be also pleased by the honesty of my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) when he say that this debate have be ongoing in the party for some time , and I be very pleased indeed that we have settle on this position . in my constituency , the average house price be about £ 372 , 500 . purchase a property at that price — if the online stamp duty calculator be accurate — would require a stamp duty outlay of £ 8 , 625 . when the stamp duty land tax be introduce on land transaction by the then Labour Government in December 2003 , the average house price in my constituency be £ 169 , 000 , which mean a stamp duty outlay of just £ 1 , 090 . when stamp duty be take together with increase house price , there have be a 224 % increase in the cost of buy a home ; average earning have rise by just 190 % in the same period . abolish stamp duty will not fix that overnight . we still need to do more to build warm , dry home in the place where people want to live , and I be pleased that today ' s debate have be broaden slightly to cover the subject of house building . I think that party across the House want to build good - quality home in the right place to enable young people to get on to the housing ladder . we do not seem to be at odd on that . however , those home need to be in the right place , and I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire that their quality be incredibly important . if we improve the quality of new build home , our community will be much more open to accept house building , which will increase supply and improve opportunity for young people . that be critical for all member on both side of the House . in place like London , however , this Government and their Labour Mayor of London have utterly fail to tackle a severe housing crisis ; there be low target , and there be reduce aspiration , rather than ambition . build more house will help to arrest the charge growth in house price , but we know that just building be unlikely to bring price down . some 20 % few 25 to 34 - year - old be homeowner today than in the year 2000 . average first - time buyer be almost a decade old today than in the 1980 . our property market be fail our young people . we must therefore do more to make it more affordable for people to make that next move . the Chancellor , desperate to raise more money follow her economic vandalism , want to drag more people into pay stamp duty , or into a high rate of stamp duty , by freeze threshold . reform , which be reportedly about to scrap its half - bake stamp duty plan , be look to concrete over our green belt , as it lack any credible plan to deliver home at all . the Conservatives be the only party with a sensible plan to unlock our housing market and give young people a stake in society and root in their community . by abolish stamp duty on primary residence , we can make it more than 2 % cheap for family to buy the average house in my constituency overnight . we can save prospective first - time buyer in London an average of £ 18 , 000 — and I be sure that at least one hon . member on the Government Benches , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) , might wish to comment on the saving that she could deliver to her constituent by support this motion and push this policy through within her party . that be the sort of real impact that people will feel in their pocket , and that they will feel while unbox their prized possession in the living room of their new family home . it will enable a new generation of young people to achieve the dream of home ownership , enable family to move up the housing ladder into more suitable family home , unlock our housing market , and knock down a barrier to social mobility , stimulate our economy and abolish the drag on growth . that be what I get into politic to deliver : less government red tape , few taxis on aspiration and mobility , and family in home of their own . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on stamp duty , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think there be a lot of agreement on both side of the House that , if we could just abolish stamp duty , we would . the question be not about abolish stamp duty , but about how that would be pay for , and what we have see from the Conservatives ' so - call costing be £ 23 billion of cut to social security . that be £ 23 billion that they could not deliver while they be in office . those cut would lead to rise destitution , and not just for those who be out of work or for child , but for those who be in work as we speak . it be worth think about how the social security system have change over time and what have happen in our economy , and indeed in high - income nation across the world . technological change have result in a divide between high - pay and low - pay job , so that some job — mostly do by graduate — pay enough to live on , but a lot more do not . for a two - parent household with two kid to afford just the basic , each parent need to earn £ 35 , 000 a year . some 40 % of full - time worker earn less than that . so that people can afford to live , we have use the social security system to top up wage . that be what we do with work tax credit , and it be what the Conservatives do when they reform that system to become universal credit . however , they build a huge amount of cut into the system . what do those cut mean ? they mean food bank in our nation , which we have never know previously . they mean kid go hungry . they mean parent unable to afford the basic . they mean that people across this country who work hard and do the right thing could not afford a decent life . today , the conservative party be once again suggest £ 23 billion of cut to social security . that be £ 23 billion out of the pocket of family , include work family . it be shocking ; it should mean something to they — it should mean something to all of we . our nation do well when every single one of we can afford a decent life . People who work hard should be able to have a decent life , yet those cut would mean the opposite . the hon . Member be make a powerful argument . I just wonder whether he have reflect on the size of the welfare budget . be he make the argument that welfare spending should not come down at all ? that be not at all the argument I be make . my argument be : how can we ensure that people live a decent life through £ 23 billion of social security cut , give the huge amount of destitution and increase unaffordability for family ? I say this to the Conservatives as well : I work in the Treasury under George Osborne , and even he would not have come up with something like this . when he try something similar , he do not get it past this House . will the hon . member reflect on the fact that one in six people in this country on universal credit be not british citizen ? how would he justify that to his constituent ? People in this country who have the right to remain and the right to work , and who have earn social security contribution , can make claim . the hon . Member will know that many people in this country have no recourse to public fund at all . that mean that during the pandemic , for example , despite pay into the system , they could not claim back out . it be a shame to see where the conservative party have get to on this stuff , to be honest . there be a time when the Conservatives condemn Enoch Powell , and a time when they join we , across this House , in believe that every single person , regardless of the colour of their skin , when give the legal status to remain , have right and responsibility , like a british citizen . it be such a shame to see where the conservative party have get to . the truth be , I think the Conservatives feel ashamed . when they talk about thing like cultural coherence , we can hear the dog whistle — across this country , we hear it . I will tell you why , Madam Deputy Speaker : it be because british citizenship be not just about the colour of our skin or the way we look ; it be about our value , the way we act , and the way we cohere together — different community across this nation who speak in different way . it be a deep , deep shame — dog - whistle away . I call on the hon . Gentleman to reflect on the fact that , regardless of our political difference , it be the conservative party that have deliver three female Prime Ministers and the first Prime Minister from an ethnic minority background , while his have not manage to present any other leader than a white man . order . before Dr Sandher respond , I ask Members to try to keep this debate in scope . and look how much the conservative party have change since last July . that be where we be . I will come back , Madam Deputy Speaker , to the issue at hand . we have 4 . 5 million child in poverty and one in six child live in a household with food insecurity , struggle to make end meet . make £ 23 billion of welfare cut would mean that family and child could not afford to eat . it would mean the most destitute become poor , and work family — 40 % of those on universal credit be work family — see cut as well . that be the outcome here : make our nation poorer . that be not what we should want ; it be not what Labour want , and I hope it be not what the Conservatives want either . on behalf of Mr Speaker , may I say that it be an absolute joy to see the wonderful Chelsea Pensioners in their glorious red uniform observe proceeding ? no doubt it will elevate the debate . I call Graham Stuart to do so . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate , and I think the quality of contribution from both side have be excellent — which have not always be the case over recent month . no one in Beverley and Holderness like pay stamp duty — not first - time buyer in Beverley and not grandparent seek to downsize in Hedon . of course , as we know , it be not even popular with the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) . stamp duty be first introduce in 1694 to fund our war against the French . while we may have our difference with our friend across the channel , when I check this morning , I be pleased to find that we be not currently at war with France . what begin as a temporary wartime measure — raise £ 91 , 206 , 10 shilling and fourpence in 1702 — have become a permanent tax . but it be more than just a tax ; it be a barrier to opportunity for young couple in Sproatley in my constituency , an impediment to aspiration in Aldbrough , and a block on family in Withernsea try to climb the property ladder . we , the conservative party , have always be the party of opportunity , of home ownership and of family aspiration . that be why , at the next election , we will abolish this three - century - old tax . there have be welcome sign that I do not expect to hear today : too often , colleague on the Government Benches just slavishly repeat their speaking point , but we have hear thoughtful speech and a recognition that stamp duty be a harmful tax . they may question our way of implement the policy , but they recognise that . we will abolish this three - century - old tax and unlock the housing market in Beverley and Holderness — and beyond . I encourage the Chancellor , and colleague behind she , to follow our lead . let I start by say that I welcome a debate on how we incentivise home ownership . I be a Labour MP who want more of my constituent in Welwyn Hatfield to have a secure home of their own and to build a life in our community , and people ' s ability to buy a home should not be so dependent on their access to the bank of mum and dad . the Conservatives ' proposition that we be discuss today be that the abolition of stamp duty be the answer . before we assess that claim , let we look at how we get here . home ownership go backwards over the 14 year of the last Conservative Government . there be 600 , 000 few homeowner in the UK than there would have be if home ownership rate have remain at the level they be at in 2010 — that be more than the population of Liverpool . twenty year ago , 50 % of people age 25 to 34 own their own home ; by 2022 , the figure have fall to few than four in 10 . member from across the House will recognise that that be a record of failure . I think they will also agree that there be no panacea that will increase the level of home ownership , and that it require a range of policy solution . that be say , there be one fundamental truth that we need to recognise : if we do not build more home , we will not have more homeowner . the last Government drop mandatory housing target , and I have lose count of how many conservative mp have use departmental question , statement and even today ' s debate to say , " I like the idea of home in the right place , but it doesn ' t happen to be in my constituency . " I have to say that the liberal Democrats have be just as guilty of that as the Conservative party . where the Conservatives fail , the Labour Government be act . we be deliver the return of housing target for every local authority , ambitious planning reform and a record £ 39 billion for the affordable home programme . do we have furth to go ? yes , absolutely , but new housing start in the first quarter of 2025 be up by 17 % on the same period in 2024 , when the Conservatives be still in power . let we look more closely at the proposition that abolish stamp duty be the answer . first of all , who benefit most ? if someone ' s home be worth £ 1 . 5 million , they will save £ 93 , 750 under this proposal . as I say early , if someone ' s home be worth £ 2 million , they will save £ 150 , 000 — that be cheer by the Conservative party , which be tell — whereas if they buy a home that be worth less than £ 300 , 000 , this proposal will save they no money at all . that be the threshold at which stamp duty cut in at the moment , and 40 % of first - time buyer buy home that be worth less than £ 300 , 000 . as my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) say , the Conservatives ' proposition be to ask ordinary taxpayer either to accept deep cut in social security , or to pay more taxis to subsidise a tax cut for millionaire . Liz Truss would be proud . we have no reform colleague in the Chamber today , but I suspect that they would be pleased as well . of course , their leader famously say at the time of the mini - Budget that it be the good budget since 1986 . if we seriously want more homeowner , the real answer lie in build more home of all tenure ; in offer mortgage guarantee to help those who earn enough but can not raise the deposit to get on the ladder ; in continue to support low - cost home ownership model , such as shared ownership ; in planning reform ; and in embrace a new generation of new town . in the first 14 month of be in office , this Government have do more to make progress on identify site for the next generation of new town than the conservative party do in 14 year . if our objective be to give millionaire a tax cut , abolish stamp duty in one sweep be a good way to implement that policy . but if we be serious about help people on to the housing ladder , we should reject the Conservatives ’ motion today , reject their fail approach over the last 14 year , and support a package of reform to get Britain build again . it be very interesting to follow the hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) , because I mention he in an early intervention . he know that I fundamentally disagree with he . abolish stamp duty would be a tax cut for everybody , irrespective of the value of their house . fundamentally , we know that the housing market be gum up , and I have serious question about whether the Labour Government will be able to meet their housing target . I be not sure what the housing number be currently — maybe he will be able to enlighten I — but this be fundamentally a tax cut that would apply to everybody . as my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) say early , the speech from Labour Members have be very interesting , but they be slightly siloe . they slightly miss out the context of what we be talk about : the economy be stall , and the job tax mean that unemployment have go up . more hard - work people be now unemployed , and more young people be now out of work , as a result of this Labour Government . they can talk down this motion — as I be sure they will , because the whip have tell they to do so — but the reality be that we be put something on the table that be credible and fund , that will un - gum the housing market , and that will contribute £ 1 . 2 billion - worth of economic growth . at a time when the Chancellor be scramble to fill her own black hole , we be put credible idea on the table that the Government should take more seriously . the hon . Gentleman say that this tax cut would benefit everybody . can he tell I how it would benefit people who do not currently pay it because their property be not worth enough ? first of all , it would increase mobility in the housing market . as my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) state in an incredibly eloquent speech , it would also mean that the construction industry and all the peripheral job would start to mobilise . it would create economic growth — I suspect that the figure of £ 1 . 2 billion be probably a bit of an underestimate , and that abolish stamp duty would actually create more growth . we be talk about create job , make people wealthy and be aspirational for the aspirational , whereas Labour member be talk down a credible policy that would put money on the table for some of our poor people . ultimately , abolish stamp duty would mean that more and more people be able to get on to the housing ladder . let we face it : the Government be not go to meet their housing target . it be already quite obvious that they be massively behind , and it will not be possible to meet their target . they be kill off aspiration and confidence in the economy , and house builder will not want to meet the target — unless , of course , they be meet with huge subsidy . the question I have for those on the Government Benches be this : give the current economic situation , how much representation have they make to their Chancellor about introduce growth principle and cut taxis so that people have more money in their pocket ? the answer will be none , because that be not happen . the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) say that he be not make an argument for not cut welfare , but he do not put a figure on the table . we know that the welfare bill be ballooning , and it start balloon post covid . we intervene during the pandemic , which have to happen . we save a £ 2 trillion economy , we save business and we save job . we do all those thing — sometimes with the support of those on the Opposition Benches and sometimes without , I be sad to say — to save the economy . of course , all of that come with a cost . it be now right that we look forward to make sure that we be put proposal on the table that help grow the economy and , by the way , help the Chancellor to get out of this mess . I want she to do well , because right now I have constituent who be struggle , who be anxious and who be worried . her policy , back by those on the Labour back Benches , have contribute to high inflation and a high cost of living . these be all consequence that they back by walk through the vote Lobbies . there be a Budget come . although Labour Back Benchers may be talk in silos , the Government be already brief the paper about all the taxis that will rise . they talk about " serious Government " , but they be not talk seriously about the cut that they will have to put on the table , because the Chancellor know that the moment she do that , it will be her Back Benchers who stab she in the back . that be her fundamental conundrum , because she also have to placate the bond market , where we have high bond yield . I see Labour Members shake their head , but that be the reality of what Back Benchers be deal with . we be put good proposal on the table that would mean that young family who want to get on the housing ladder — [ interruption . ] I be happy for the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) to intervene if he want . no ? I be offer he an opportunity , because I be get distract by his chuntering . the reality be that most serious economist , such as Dan Neidle and those at the Institute for Fiscal Studies , have say that stamp duty be a bad tax . in fact , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , who I hear have be instrumental in write the Budget , have talk about stamp duty be a " bad tax " . we all agree on that , so we have put a fund policy on the table that the Chancellor be go to need . surely this be something that we should all take seriously , because the Government will need answer . I suspect we will come back to that . a lot have be make of the Chancellor ' s fiscal rule . the Chief Secretary to Treasury say that they be " ironclad " , and I suspect they be until the next one . we have a golden rule . in the spirit of rule , the Leader of the Opposition have create a golden rule , which be that for every £ 1 save , half will go to cut our national debt . surely we can all get behind that . when the interest on our debt be something like £ 100 billion a year , surely we can get behind that . when the Chancellor be borrow more month after month to meet everyday spending , as be obviously happen , we should get behind that rule . the last point I want to make be about the cliff - edge argument . as my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire mention , we have the window during covid . I be one of those on the receive end of not be able to buy a house at that time . I be look for a house for my new family , and house be go quickly because people be try to beat the cliff edge at the end of the stamp duty window . this proposal be not the same , because this get rid of such a window , and it mean that more and more people will be able to buy house . I be perplex by the argument the Liberal Democrats have advance that abolish stamp duty will raise price . presumably the quid pro quo be that raise it would lower price , so why be they not propose that policy ? my right hon . friend make a good point , and I be sure the Liberal Democrat spokesperson will address it , but that speak to the economic incoherence of what they have present . fundamentally , we believe in property right . we believe in the ownership of property and the right that derive from it , which be among the freedom — the fundamental freedom — in this country . it be a moment of great pride when I get the key to my first house , and I be sure it be the same for other . cut stamp duty be the right thing to do , and if we win the next election , that be exactly what we will do . the shadow Chancellor would have we believe that the Conservatives have change , and that the day of Liz Truss and her disastrous mini - Budget be behind they , but we can all see that nothing have change . once again , we see the same reckless attitude towards the public finance — cut public expenditure to fund tax break for the wealthy without be honest with the british public about who pay the price . the shadow Chancellor tell we he can fund this Liz Truss - style tax - cut bonanza by make £ 47 billion in spending cut . I simply ask he : if these fantasy saving be so easy to find , why do the Conservatives not make they during the 14 year they be in government ? will the hon . Lady give way ? no , not at this point . we have be here before with the Tories . they tell the public they can slash the state without any downside , but the next thing we know be that our local library be be shut down , our local swimming pool go with it and our vital service such as the NHS and school end up in crisis . my constituent in North Warwickshire and Bedworth have suffer 14 year of austerity once , and they do not want to suffer it a second time . let we look at some of the real fact about stamp duty . do the hon . Lady think stamp duty be a bad tax ? I be not say whether stamp duty be a good or a bad tax . I be say that I do not support simply abolish it without any thought about the impact that that will have on the poor people in our society . the Tories have dress up this fantasy tax cut as stand up for first - time buyer , but as a former property solicitor , I can tell they for a fact that that argument be completely false . in my constituency , a first - time buyer purchase a property at the average price pay no stamp duty . this tax cut would be of no benefit to they whatsoever . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some more progress . the average property sale in my constituency would see buyer buy for the second or subsequent time pay between £ 2 , 000 and £ 3 , 600 . that be not an insignificant amount of money for sure , but it be just a tiny fraction of the cost of buy an average home . compare that with the kind of house buy by , say , the average Tory party donor — perhaps a £ 2 million property in central London — we see that such a purchase would attract stamp duty of more than £ 150 , 000 . that be who this massive Tory tax cut would be help — not first - time buyer in my constituency , but London - base millionaire . let we be clear that this whop Tory tax cut would overwhelmingly be spend on the wealthy in our society , while suck money out of our public service and local community . it would do nothing to help young people to get a foot on the housing ladder , while give a whopping tax break to some of the rich people in our society . let we be absolutely clear that this be not a tax cut for work people ; it be a tax cut for the wealthy . it would take money out of our public service and our local community , while do nothing to help young people get a foot on the housing ladder . the Conservatives claim that they have change , but this late plan show that they have not learn a thing . it be the same fail ideology , the same unfair priority — austerity 2 . 0 — and would cause the same harm to my constituent in North Warwickshire and Bedworth and right across this country . stamp duty land tax be one of the most unfair and outdated taxis in our system . it punish aspiration , lock people out of home ownership and block up the housing market . I have hear from constituent who be first - time buyer struggle to get a foothold on the housing ladder because of the amount of stamp duty they be expect to pay . Eastleigh ' s Liberal Democrat - run borough council have a strong record of build home to meet local demand , but accord to the Office for National Statistics , the average price of a house in Eastleigh be still £ 313 , 000 , which be unaffordable for many . it be simply wrong that the dream of home ownership have drift so far out of reach of so many people . my constituent Tom and his wife be a young couple who have spend the past two year desperately try to buy their first home . in the haste to get the purchase through before the end of the stamp duty holiday , they miss key check and accept extra cost just to complete the purchase . as someone who grow up in rent accommodation , with everything that go with it , I find it so incredibly disappointing that , at a time when we should be do everything possible to make home ownership accessible , the system instead create obstacle for those simply try to put down root and start a family in a home of their own . as we know , there be a housing crisis . the private rental market be expensive and insecure , far too few home be available for social rent and poor - quality housing be damage people ' s health . the Government must tackle the root cause by increase the building of new home to 380 , 000 a year , include 150 , 000 social home a year , ensure that every community have access to secure and genuinely affordable housing . the entire system of property taxation from council tax to stamp duty be wholly unfit for purpose . reform must be fair , comprehensive and forward look . that mean set out a clear plan , not an uncosted headline or a short - term Treasury grab . I hope the Government will replace this outdated , unfair tax with a modern , more efficient system that support social mobility and economic growth , and that reignite the dream of home ownership for all generation , but I be afraid I will not be support this ill - thought - out and uncosted motion . like many in this House and many of my constituent in Dartford , I have have the dubious pleasure of pay stamp duty . I can testify to the fact that do so when buy a home be not a pleasant experience . that be one small reason why I be sympathetic to the case for reform of property taxation in this country when properly think through , as other have say . however , this proposal , from the party that bring we the former right hon . member for South West Norfolk as Prime Minister , be simply not a serious one . at the Conservative party conference in Manchester , the Leader of the Opposition , who previously be go to spend three year think through her party ' s new policy platform — no doubt look at all the alternative and think through what the effect might be — produce a proposal , like a rabbit out of a hat , to abolish stamp duty on the purchase of main home . the Institute for Fiscal Studies reckon that , if that decision be implement after the 2029 general election , it would cost the country or the Exchequer about £ 11 billion a year in lose revenue . surprisingly , or perhaps unsurprisingly give the fiscal situation leave by the Conservative party last July , there be no serious proposal to replace the revenue . instead , we have a promise that this policy would be pay for by take the axe once more to spending on public service , with a promise of £ 47 billion in saving — a proposal to return this country to the austerity that be so roundly reject by our constituent a little more than a year ago . indeed , the £ 47 billion include a saving , as other have say , of £ 23 billion on welfare — a figure vastly in excess of anything the previous Government even approach during their 14 year in office , and in fact welfare spending go up during that time . so to attempt to make such a saving on the timescale they be suggest would inevitably mean a big increase in the number of family in our country live in poverty . I take a moment to remind the House of the state of the public service and public finance at the end of the 14 year of Conservative Government — a plethora of unfunded spending commitment , and departmental spending plan that be so out of touch with reality that they leave , as have be say many time , a huge black hole which this Government have have to try to fill . now Opposition Members be propose to cut public service even far . this be not a serious plan to improve those public service or invest in or grow our economy . clearly , stamp duty be a far from perfect tax and we should have a sensible debate on property tax reform , but this just isn ' t it . in the short term , for instance , it would be possible to increase the number of council tax band to capture the high - value property in some part of the country and redistribute some of that income elsewhere . in the long term , a wide reform of council tax and other property taxis could provide a fairer way of tax property so that those with broad shoulder bear the great burden . instead , as a former adviser to the party opposite when in government , Tim Leunig , say , this would be " a very , very big tax cut for rich people " and would have the effect of push house price far out of the reach of first - time buyer . the motion be disappointing . it be fantasy economic from what use to be a serious political party . I hope that the House will reject its motion today . they say an Englishman ' s home be his castle — the place he feel safe and have control of , a place with a sense of permanence . in today ' s world , though , we have young people stick at the gatehouse , renting , unable to break through into property ownership ; and we have old generation lock inside the castle tower , unable to downsize easily and get out , and last winter be cold with the sudden change in the winter fuel allowance . they be also face a government arm with a trebuchet , fling economic misery at the castle wall , destroy prospect and the foundation . there be a reason why people like programme such as " escape to the Country " and " home under the Hammer " — other daytime programme be available . they be really popular because they embody the aspiration of the british public to earn , and to purchase and make a true home . the policy in the motion do so much to unlock the potential that we have . abolish stamp duty on a primary residence could save young family , especially in London , up to £ 18 , 000 on their first home . I be really disappointed to hear Labour Members , particularly the hon . member for Pendle and Clitheroe ( Jonathan Hinder ) , say they do not believe it be fair to do that . it feel like the politic of envy : give that house price be so much high in London and the south - east , this policy be only fair . if that be combine with our announcement of the first job bonus , where the first £ 5 , 000 of national insurance pay by any british citizen start their first job will be place in a personal saving account earmark for a first home deposit or future saving , it would be transformational . stamp duty be , as have be echo across the Chamber , a terrible tax . I be sure certain Labour Members will tend to agree . it be an additional tax that distort the market and often stop people move . we all agree it be complicated — its calculation , the exemption . I be a commercial property lawyer , and I actually have to complete stamp duty form . they be an absolute nightmare ; they slow down and stifle the market . particularly for young couple and family who find that dream home that they want to move into , the stamp duty alone be enough to stop they . that should not be happen in this day and age . we need to unlock true aspiration and opportunity , and I fail to see why Labour Members would reject such a policy , which have be welcome by so many , include their own constituent . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress . Labour member sneer when we talk about live within their mean . that be something that every single constituent of our have to do . they have to make those tough decision not to spend at certain point , or to save , or to work hard , but this government do not even follow the principle that they ask their own constituent to adhere to . do my hon . friend agree that it would be helpful if the Government be much more ambitious in find the saving in their Budget , in order to deliver this ambitious policy that would support young people up and down our country ? absolutely . my hon . friend make an incredibly important point and I really wish that the Government would be able to find that , but unfortunately , give the current Chancellor , I do not think that will be a possibility . the Government should be create an environment for people to thrive ; they should not be fix people in an environment . stamp duty be one of those taxis that literally lock people in place . we must learn that we need to be able to trust individual , give they those opportunity and see true growth . so I fully support , as I hope everyone would , this motion on stamp duty land tax . I start by acknowledge a point that many member across the House have make . many of we would not defend the principle of stamp duty ; indeed , if it do not already exist , it be hard to believe that we would invent it . however , that be not the question before we today . if we be to decide to abolish stamp duty , we must say how we will pay for it , and we have to justify that decision as a priority above all the other decision that we might make on what to do with that money . we Liberal Democrats accept that property taxis must be reform — arguably , radically so — but I struggle with the Conservatives , who govern for year without substantial reform , now promise to abolish stamp duty with no credible plan to pay for it . where be the money come from ? be the magic money tree be re - rooted ? the hon . member be right to point out that the Conservatives have 14 year in government . now they be in opposition , they want to talk about all the magical saving that they could make . why do they not do it when they be in government ? it be too little , too late . as I be say , if you decide that you want to do this , you have to tell we how you will pay for it , and justify that priority over all the other priority . do my hon . friend agree that what have lock young people out of the housing market over the last 14 year be not the existence of stamp duty , but the astronomical rise in house price ? they have go from be around three time a first - time buyer ' s income to more like 10 time in constituency like mine and his . I completely agree . the most common reason I hear from my constituent for their inability to get on the housing ladder be that astronomical rise in house price . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress . the motion tell we everything we need to know about the priority of the conservative party today . in the context of the vast majority of option that we could choose to pursue , this be a regressive tax cut , fund once again by cut — cut that they will not be brave enough to specify with any credibility . reckless with our public finance , reckless with our public service , and utterly out of touch with the reality face work family in constituency like mine in Crewe and Nantwich . the hon . Member use the word reckless . have he hear the news that the OBR have say the Chancellor will have to find another £ 7 billion to £ 9 billion due to the fall in productivity ? therefore her black hole have just get big . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . look , we will await the Budget to see the OBR ' s forecast , but I will take no lesson from the party opposite on economic credibility . they be the party of Liz Truss , which drag this country into the economic abyss . we know that Tory austerity and a lack of investment in our country ' s infrastructure be part of the story of why our economic growth and productivity have never recover since the financial crash in 2008 . it seem like the Conservatives want to take we right back to the beginning of that 14 year of chaos , failure and decline . I think my constituent would say no , frankly . what be bad , the Conservatives can not even tell we with any credibility where the cut would fall . we have see this playbook before . they have no credible plan to pay for their promise , just vague talk of saving from the very service that our community rely on — our school , NHS and local infrastructure . the Tories have some cheek to come here and talk about home ownership when they manifestly fail to build the home that our country need because they preside over a broken planning system that they do nothing to reform . as I mention early , my constituent have not forget what Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget do to their mortgage payment . during the election campaign , I speak directly with family in Crewe and Nantwich who have see their monthly cost soar overnight . I distinctly remember speak to a man who tell I that his mortgage payment have rise by £ 1 , 000 a month and that he have be force to sell his home as a result . if we want to examine the reality beyond the rhetoric of the modern day conservative party ' s record on home ownership , it be that : failure to deliver , soar price and broken dream . the hon . member talk about broken dream , but no Government Member have speak about the hard - work family in the middle — not the one struggle to buy their first home and not the so - call rich people at the top who in the Government ' s world this will benefit , but the hard - work family , who he have no doubt speak to , who can not buy a property with an additional bedroom for their grow family because of stamp duty . as my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) reference , that stamp duty be the difference between the price of the home they wish to buy and the dream of actually succeed in do so . it be those family in the middle who suffer most at the hand of Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget , so I would expect Conservative member to apologise to those family in my constituency for their record on the economy over the past 14 year . compare all that with what Labour be deliver in government . we be get Britain building , and not just the home we need . in Crewe and Nantwich , we be get a new hospital at Leighton , the new youth zone in Crewe town centre , a new history centre and many more thing that our community will benefit from . the choice ahead at the Budget be clear : stick with Labour ' s plan for national renewal or return to the chaos and cut of the past , whatever shade of blue that come in . labour choose a fair economy , one that work for work people and reward they . that be what we be build in Crewe and Nantwich and across Britain . the people of Crewe and Nantwich deserve well than unfunded tax cut and economic instability . they deserve a government that invest in the future , protect their service and build a Britain for all . today the state of our economy be lay bare : growth have flatline at just 0 . 1 % in August ; inflation remain at almost twice the Bank of England ' s target ; and long - term borrowing cost be at their high since 1998 . when we leave office back in July 2024 , we have the fast grow economy in the G7 . a year later , unemployment be up , debt be at its high since the 1960 , and the UK be slide backwards . it be hardly surprising from a Government with more experience in the trade union movement than in business . only the Conservatives be serious about the economy . will the hon . member give way ? I have literally only be speak for 30 second , so I think the hon . Member can bear with I for a minute or two . the Government ' s inexperience show in the policy that they pursue — policy that make it hard for business , homeowner and first - time buyer to thrive . now , just week before the Chancellor ' s Budget , come the most destructive raid on homeowner in live memory , if we be to believe the leak report come out of the Treasury . under the Conservatives ' watch , the national debt grow by nearly £ 1 trillion . they drive our economy through a hard Brexit into the ground , and yet they masquerade as the party of good sense in the economy . I do not understand how that make sense . will the hon . member explain ? there have be a lot of comment about when people be bear and what they remember . I hope the hon . member do not take offence , but I be sure he be bear before covid and the war in Ukraine and so he know why we have to increase the national debt as a result . he be be entirely disingenuous if he believe those thing do not have an impact on the economy . if he have be in power , what would he have do ? would he have not support those small business , employer and hard - work people ? rise — no , I have already hear enough from the hon . member , so I will not give way for the moment . order . just to be clear , good language be appropriate , and I be not sure " disingenuous " be the good language to use . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will find an alternative word . be the hon . member for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) finish wander around the Chamber ? be you comfortable now ? fabulous . I misspoke , and I withdraw the comment . but I find it strange that Liberal Democrat Members seem to have a collective amnesia on what happen over the past few year . return to the substance of the debate , family across my constituency be brace for new taxis on home , capital gain tax on family house and even potentially a land value tax . this be not reform ; it be a sledgehammer aim at aspiration , mobility and stability . as I have say before , in Farnham , where the average home now cost £ 660 , 000 , family could face bill of £ 5 , 000 a year on top of their mortgage and energy cost . in Haslemere , Liphook and Bordon , already stretch household will be hit again , and pensioner in Grayshott or Tilford face the grotesque prospect of capital gain on the home they have work a lifetime to own . everyone — pensioner , farmer , small business owner — be treat by this government as a cash cow . a tax on the family home be a tax on aspiration . it trap people in their property , dry up supply and break housing chain . the very people labour claim to champion — first - time buyer — will be freeze out altogether . the Government claim this be about fairness — we have hear that from a number of Government Members — but there be nothing fair about a pensioner in Greatham be force to sell their home to pay the taxman , or a young family in Lindford choose between childcare and a new annual levy . that be not fairness ; it be a regional punishment for those of we who just happen to live in the south and south - east . that be why I back our clear conservative plan to abolish stamp duty on primary residence . own a home give people a real stake in their community and their country . our policy would make the economy strong and help family achieve the dream of home ownership once again . the hon . Member say that own a home give people a stake in their community , and I agree with he . why then do his party oppose this Government ' s move to help build 1 . 5 million home and reform the planning system ? the simple answer be we do not — I can not add more than that . as the hon . Member have draw I on this , our problem be that we do not think that be deliverable because the Government have not meet any of their target thus far . from a parochial point of view , in Waverley and East Hampshire my constituent face the doubling of housing target , whereas in London , where the infrastructure be already in place , the target be be reduce . that be not join - up thinking ; that be a Government who be spray their house target all over the country without think about how they will actually deliver they . as I say , the average price of a family home in Farnham be £ 660 , 000 , which would mean pay £ 23 , 000 in stamp duty . if we can get our proposal through , that would be an enormous cut . most important , it be fully fund — part of that £ 47 billion saving plan — and consistent with our golden rule that every pound save be split between reduce the deficit and grow the economy . the Institute for Fiscal Studies call stamp duty the " most economically damaging tax in the UK " . the London School of Economics find that it " cut mobility and investment " . the Centre for Policy Studies call it a " tax on … aspiration " . they be all right . our plan would save first - time buyer up to £ 18 , 000 in London and £ 4 , 000 in the south - east . as my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) say , combine with our first job bonus , a couple could save £ 28 , 000 — enough to get on the ladder and build a future . we have hear a number of hon . member across the House claim that they support the principle of remove the stamp duty land tax , with the notable exception of the hon . member for Pendle and Clitheroe ( Jonathan Hinder ) , for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) and for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) . what those three member forget be that people buy a house be almost always part of a chain . just because someone at the top of the market might be buy a £ 2 million house — I think they be overreach a little with £ 2 million , but even if that be the case — everybody else down that chain would benefit . as soon as we can get the market move , we will allow people to buy and sell and will give the young people , those buy their first home or those try to upsize because they be start a family the ability to actually buy . it be not just the people who be technically cover by the tax — it be everybody within the whole chain . in contrast , Labour freeze the threshold , drag more family into high band . the Housing Secretary even try to block 237 home in his constituency . " build , baby , build " — I think not , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I say , a number of member across the House , especially on the Labour Benches , have express sympathy for the principle of the policy , but they seem entirely unwilling to make the tough decision necessary to get there . we see that with Labour ' s total inability to cut the welfare bill by a tiny amount early this year . even if they be not willing to take those decision , though , as every Member of this House know , this motion be not bind on the government , so Labour Members could happily support it to show that they would , in principle , like to see this tax cut . I suspect , though , that their principle will be overridden by the decision of the Whips Office . the Liberal Democrats be characteristically fence - sit — so much so that I think the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) must have leave the Chamber to remove the splinter . the reality be that this Conservative Opposition be the only party with serious thinking about how to get the housing market move again . our alternative be clear : we will abolish stamp duty on main home , scrap business rate for hospitality , leisure and retail and give high street the breathing space to grow again . that be the difference — we listen to people who build , hire , own and aspire . the choice before the House be stark : a Labour party that punish aspiration , or a conservative party that reward it . do we want a Government who trap people where they be , or one who set they free to move , work and grow ? only the Conservatives have a serious plan to get Britain work , grow the economy and give every person a real stake in their community through the security of home ownership . here we go again , Madam Deputy Speaker — always the promise of tax cut to come , never the proper plan to ensure it be affordable . this motion tell we everything we need to know about the modern conservative party ; once again , its first recourse be to reach for the austerity button instead of make a serious plan to invest , grow the economy and strengthen our public service . reckless with the public finance and reckless with our public service , the Conservatives be not a serious party . I be go to make this point specifically for the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , but I see that he be not in his place , so everyone else can enjoy it instead . yes , it be time for the great hit of austerity — the 14 year in which the Conservatives talk and do this country down , when day - to - day spending on public service fall by nearly 17 % , strip away nearly £ 46 billion every year from the service our resident rely on . member should remember that figure as I talk about austerity , because the Conservatives would fund the tax cut we be talk about today with £ 47 billion — a large number than that figure from the austerity year . look at the back - of - a - fag - packet plan that they have to make it add up . let we remember what austerity do to our country . it leave our NHS with a £ 10 billion repair backlog . it leave nine in 10 of our school in urgent need of repair , with more than 230 school with swiss cheese for roof , include reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in the roof of Wood Green school in my constituency . those pupil deserve so much well ; they deserve a decent place to learn . we will make that happen — the Conservatives do not . when the pandemic strike , our public service be critically understaffed and have receive critical under - investment . the result , thank to the Conservatives ' austerity and cut , be more than 170 , 000 excess death , put the UK among the bad in the developed world . in that period , our precious public sector worker who give their all — nurse , teacher , carer — have their pay frozen or cap for year , leave the average nurse more than £ 4 , 000 bad off than in 2010 . the Conservatives leave one in 10 worker in insecure employment , include the well part of a million on zero - hour contract . the Conservatives ' cut to social security push more family into poverty , which have result in 50 % of child in my constituency live below the poverty line . that be every second kid — every second door when I walk around the estate that I have the honour to represent . some 117 , 000 people be now live in temporary accommodation because of the money the Conservatives take out of the affordable housing building fund that today they seem so very pleased to speak in favour of . I just wonder if the hon . Lady have any view on stamp duty land tax . I be speak today about the other part of the motion before we — the part about the unspecified cut that would pay for the tax cut — and the implication of that . as the hon . Gentleman would expect of a responsible member of my party , I be not go to speculate with plan about how we fund thing for which there be no plan . go back to the record of austerity — remember that austerity cost and take out of our economy less than the Conservatives propose take out in their motion today — it leave the bottom fifth of household £ 517 poor , while the top fifth gain £ 174 . austerity do not just deepen inequality ; it entrench it . it lead to the long pay squeeze in 200 year , with growth anaemic , productivity absolutely flatlined and public investment slash . my friend at the TUC have work out — [ interruption . ] yes , they be my friend . I be proud to represent million of work people . conservative Members speak about those work people with disdain , but it be an honour to represent they in their workplace and negotiate for well wage on their behalf . good Conservatives in the past use to understand social partnership and the importance of responsibility and work with worker and boss to get the good outcome ; it be a shame those lesson have be forget , with the baying call of the mob at the mention of trade union . my friend at the TUC have work out that if wage have rise in the past decade by the amount by which they rise between 1997 and 2010 , the average worker in my constituency would be £ 93 a week well off — that be nearly five grand a year more in people ' s pocket . instead , we get the long pay squeeze in 200 year . I be just perplex as to where the hon . Lady be go with this . ultimately , the statistic that she have just quote would have save her constituent £ 5 , 000 , but if the government do not scrap stamp duty , anybody who aspire to buy a slightly big house with that increase income would not be able to afford to do so . to be clear , the point that I be make be about the unspecified cut reference in the motion . I be talk about the implication from the last time the Conservatives make cut of that magnitude . while it may be the case that get rid of stamp duty would save some money for people in my constituency , where there be an average house price of £ 190 , 000 , it would by no mean have the impact that it would for people in rich constituency in other part of the country . the cut that the Conservatives intend to make to pay for it would , however , hit people in my end . despite all the pain of those year of austerity , it fail to reduce public debt in any meaningful way . that be why our public service be on their knee and we face a mountain of debt that have build up over 14 long year . now compare that to our Labour Government , who be steadily and slowly deliver the change that this country need . we be create 5 million extra NHS appointment , and the number of people in my area wait more than a year for the operation that they need be down 45 % . thank to the investment from our Heath Secretary , crack team be go into Dudley , Wolverhampton and Sandwell NHS trust . we secure three major trade deal in the first 10 month of our government , and wage go up by more than they do in the first 10 year of the Conservative Government . we be put in pride in place fund for community that be hit the hard , such as Friar Park in my constituency , and £ 39 billion of affordable housing funding be go to fund new social and affordable home — the large amount in a generation . I hope that 600 of those will be in my constituency . the hon . Lady refer to the trade deal — so many more than be achieve under the Conservative Government , she say — but the reality be that those trade deal could not have be make have we not have the Brexit deal that we achieve when in government . what be more , the Labour party oppose that deal . we could not do those trade deal before 2016 . one of the key achievement in the first 15 month of this Labour Government have be that we be start to fix some of the mess from the dreadful agreement that the Conservatives make with the European Union , which undermine this country . we be fill some of the hole , and make it easy to do trade with the European Union and sell brilliant british product abroad . I would have think that would be something that the Conservatives would welcome . in summation , we choose national renewal — a Britain build for everyone . we choose a fair economy that reward work people , invest in our public service , restore dignity to work and rebuild this brilliant country for every single one of our kid . ask any economist , or indeed most member in the Chamber today , and they would say that stamp duty be a bad tax . it create friction in the market , whether we be talk about someone in a one - bedroom flat who be try to take the step up to a family home , but who find that their saving goal be now that much more , or whether we be talk about someone whose kid have fly the nest , and who be consider downsize but find the bill a disincentive . it be important that we do not overstate what abolish stamp duty will do . there have be lot of claim about how it will help million of young people on to the ladder . for most people , this would not be the case . there be an exemption for first - time buyer of property worth up to £ 300 , 000 , and a further discount all the way up to half a million . it be important that we recognise that the proposal would not make a difference for huge number of people , include young people . I appreciate the point make about the fluidity of the market as well , but that be not the critical point . the central problem in the housing market be the disparity between people ' s wage and house price . People have say to I , " I have to save hard to get my home , " and " you should have see the interest rate back in the day . " I have no doubt that it have always be hard and a struggle to save up to buy a property , but the extent to which it have become out of reach today be not properly understand . around the time I be bear — 1990 , if member be interested — the difference between the average wage and the average house price be about three time a person ' s income , but today that average difference be eight time a person ' s income . I represent a London constituency , and for people in London , that difference be 15 time the average income . that mean that people in the top 10 % of earner in the capital can not afford the average home . it be an absolute disgrace that we have allow ourselves to get to this situation . the hon . Member be make a powerful point in support of our motion . do he intend to support it this afternoon ? surprise , surprise , I do not . I will come on to the reason why . mortgage company will lend around four time someone ' s income , so we can see how big the problem be . a couple may stand a chance of get a mortgage ; someone on their own have no chance . the other problem with house price accelerate away from wage so much be that the 10 % deposit that people often need to raise be completely out of reach . to put this in context , in 1990 the average wage be around £ 8 , 000 a year , and a person might have need to save about £ 2 , 000 for a deposit . today , a person on the average wage of £ 33 , 000 would have to try to save £ 28 , 000 . People simply can not do it unless they have the support of their mum or dad , or other in their family . this be the death of meritocracy in our country . we now live in a society where a person ' s family wealth , not their work or talent , define their future financial security . we be back to victorian - era level of social mobility . that be absolutely abhorrent , and no amount of tinker around the edge be sufficient to fix it . scrap stamp duty will not be a silver bullet . in fact , on its own , it might represent a bit of a giveaway to those who be already fare well than most in society . if we be serious about fix the housing crisis in our country , we need a generational change in the level of house building , and a holistic approach to redesign the property tax system . I agree with the hon . member wholeheartedly , and he be make an excellent speech , but I would gently say that lot of we in the shire who face Liberal Democrats in our constituency get leaflet from his colleague that oppose build almost anywhere , ever . what would he say about that to some of his colleague ? I think the hon . Member will find that across the country there will be opposition politician oppose development . in Sutton council in my borough , where we be in control , we be outstrip all of London in house building , and I be very proud of that record . in order to fix the housing crisis , we need sustained wage growth , so that wage come up against the increase in house price . I do not hear that on offer from the conservative party today . I be sorry to say that we have a Trussite proposal on the table : an unfunded tax cut that lack real credibility . if the hon . Gentleman have listen to the shadow Chancellor , he would have hear he say that half the £ 47 billion in saving will come from reduce welfare spend . another significant proportion will come from reduce the civil service to the size it be back in 2016 . the proposal be fully fund , and he do himself no favour by invent other fact . I thank the hon . member for bring I on to my next point early . I want to address this propose £ 47 billion in public spending cut . if the Conservatives be to hand over that proposal in its current form to the Office for Budget Responsibility , it would laugh they out of the front door . those cut be not credible at all . over half of that figure be base on welfare cut — a welfare bill , by the way , that rise on the watch of the Conservative Government , not least because of the defunding of the NHS , which cause people to be in ill health in the first place . the Conservatives be also talk about reduce the size of the civil service . can any Member hazard a guess as to why the civil service have grow since 2016 ? it be because we have in - house a lot of bureaucracy that we use to outsource to Brussels . one of the primary reason why the civil service have grow be the number of service that we now have to deliver in this country . the hon . Gentleman have not mention covid , which be the large single contributor to the increase in the size of the state . he also do not mention the £ 5 billion reduction in welfare spending propose by the Government ; the conservative party support that , but the Government just give in on it . there be plenty of money to be save . when the hon . Gentleman refer to covid , I think he be refer to total debt , which have increase . we be talk specifically about why the civil service have increase in size . a lot of that can be attribute to the new function that the UK Government have have to take on . on the welfare budget , yes , the Government struggle to get through their welfare reform , but so do the previous Conservative Government . that be why the proposal that half of the £ 47 billion will come from welfare cut lack credibility . my hon . friend be make a fantastic speech . it really do irk I that the Conservatives keep talk about the welfare bill go up when they blow a hole in the public health budget , erode primary and community care , and do nothing to fix social care — and NHS dentistry have be hollow out . be it any wonder that when people can not get the care that they need when they need it , we end up firefighte and spend load of money on welfare and the NHS far down the line ? we should be invest to save . I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . I make the point early that the welfare bill go up on the Conservative Government ' s watch , not least because they cut back NHS funding . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress ; I have be intervene on quite a few time . in the Chamber , we may agree on the analysis of stamp duty ' s failing , but the Liberal Democrats can not support the motion , because it be not a credible plan . also , if a stamp duty cut be make in isolation , it might not deliver what Conservative member say it would . it might just gum up the housing market far for the next generation . it be high time that we have a serious debate about property tax reform . some of that have happen in the Chamber today , but the motion do not reflect that serious debate , so I will not support it . it be an honour to speak in the debate . in a spirit of cross - party unity , I congratulate his Majesty ' s opposition on their valiant and brave attempt to dress up a political tax cut as a meaningful intervention in the housing market . I have be look at every single Conservative Member who have speak and think about whether they really believe that such a tax cut would actually make a difference . will the hon . member give way ? I would like to develop my argument a little bit far , and then I look forward to hear from the hon . member . I read the opposition ' s proposal with interest , and have be look to see exactly how they intend to fund their propose tax cut . I be strike by the fact that the Conservatives want to bring forward even more unfunded proposal . they be not satisfied with their devastation of public service after their attempt at austerity ; with crash the economy , drive up mortgage cost and rent , and drive down the supply of new home and overall rate of home ownership ; or with their botched Brexit deal , which , through its impact on the economy , have wreck many people ' s chance to buy a home . no , they propose yet more ill - thought - through tax cut . in the likely event that the Opposition ' s ill - thought - through proposal for fund this tax cut be undeliverable , I wonder whether they would cut £ 14 billion from Labour ' s £ 39 billion investment in genuinely affordable home . would they cut £ 14 billion from the £ 23 billion that the Government invest in the National Wealth Fund to get our economy go ? would they take money out of our £ 3 . 8 billion homelessness fund ? the truth be that the Conservative Government ' s intervention in the housing market result in temporary accommodation use , rough sleeping , mortgage rate and rent go up , and home ownership go down . the Tories pretend to be the party of home ownership , but it be labour that be absolutely determined to get home build . it be labour that be come forward with proposal to get home build , and Labour , I believe , that will deliver on that . do the hon . member accept that over the last 30 year , the four year with the high level of new housing delivery occur since 2018 , under conservative government ? she be try to make the point that stamp duty abolition be a tax cut dress up as an intervention in the housing market . what on earth be wrong with give a tax cut to aspirational people who work hard and want to move up the housing ladder ? for the last two hour , the proposal have be present by Opposition Members as a meaningful housing market intervention because of their suppose commitment to aspiration . the Labour party have always be the party of aspiration , and it have be the drive force behind social mobility throughout the last century . [ interruption . ] conservative member know that , and that be why they be chuntere so much . I want to speak early on social mobility , which the hon . Lady mention . if anybody want to see what happen to social mobility under the Conservatives , all they need do be come to Minehead in my constituency , which be rank 324th out of 324 for social mobility in the entire country , have have a Conservative Member of Parliament for 23 year who do nothing . I thank the hon . member for that intervention , which speak for itself . there be a stark contrast with what the Labour Government be do , and their meaningful intervention in the housing market . the Renters Rights Act 2025 , which have receive Royal Assent , be stabilise life for renter , make sure that they no long live in fear of no - fault eviction . we have also defeat a judicial review against vested interest and freeholder , so that we can move forward with our leasehold proposal . those be both significant intervention that the opposition fail to deliver after 14 year , five of which they spend try to deliver reform for renter and leaseholder that would have meaningfully stabilise the housing market . we have not hear anything about all the people stick in their home because of the last government ' s complete failure to tackle the cladding crisis or leasehold . we have just have political dressing - up of an unfunded propose tax cut . the other thing that the Labour Government have do be make sure that we be stabilise the economy . as the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) tell we , people who want to save up to join the housing market need a stable economy . we have see interest rate come down five time , which we think be save mortgage payer about £ 100 a month . they be well off because of the stability that our Chancellor and this Labour Government be begin to deliver . the hon . Lady be be generous with intervention ; I thank she for that . to bring she back to stamp duty land tax , the average house price in her constituency be over £ 1 million . [ interruption . ] I have not quite finish . her constituent be the precise people who would benefit from this saving . do she not think that they would welcome the abolition of this tax ? I be interested in how much the hon . Member know about my constituency . he may know that nearly half of my constituent be private renter , and only about 15 % can afford to own their own home in my constituency because of the record failure of the previous Government to do something about the cladding crisis , the supply of new genuinely affordable home and the delivery of low - cost home ownership , which would have really make a difference . rather than the Conservatives ' ill - thought - through proposal , Westminster city council under its Labour leadership be able to deliver more genuinely affordable home , and this Labour Government be take the challenge seriously . we have see his Majesty ' s opposition make a valiant attempt to dress up a politically motivate tax cut as a meaningful housing intervention . serious thinking , this be not . I be pleased that the House will vote against their ill - thought - through proposal and that we will carry on with deliver meaningful intervention in the housing market and make sure that our publicly fund service be stable into the future . I call Rebecca Paul . hear , hear ! I thank my colleague for their enthusiasm . it be a great pleasure to contribute to this really important debate . so many people — particularly young people — be desperate to get their foot on the housing ladder , but they feel — will the hon . member give way ? I gently say to the hon . member that I have not really get into the flow of my speech yet , either . I will finish the first sentence before I take any intervention . People feel that that vital first rung be utterly out of their reach . I remember when I buy my first property . it be the most amazing feeling in the world when I first walk through that door , with those key . it be really hard to earn enough to secure the mortgage that I need and to save up the money for the stamp duty and the deposit . I manage to do it , but I would have be able to do it soon without that stamp duty cost . that be why I be delighted that the Conservatives have come forward with a clear , coherent and aspirational plan to abolish stamp duty land tax on the purchase of primary residence and to open up the dream of home ownership to the next generation . do my hon . friend agree that when the policy be announce at our party conference in October , it be the first solid political idea to have come forward from any political party since the last election that genuinely offer aspiration for hard - work family ? we be talk about not just hard - work family who need to get on the housing ladder in the first place , but those in constituency like hers and mine who be desperate to expand their family and continue contribute to the society we all live in . I thank my hon . friend for that pertinent point . this be proper conservative policy . this be the kind of thing everyone in this country be clamour for — [ hon . member : " More ! " ] this party be deliver that under our new leadership . for too long , stamp duty have be a dead weight on the housing market , a tax on aspiration and a barrier to the kind of home ownership that give people a genuine stake in their community . it be time that we abolish it on primary residence . surely we can all agree that our housing market be not work as it should . far too many young people feel lock out , price out and increasingly disillusioned . the average age of a first - time buyer in England be now 34 , up by nearly a decade from where it be 40 year ago . in London , it be even high , and across the country 20 % few 25 to 34 - year - old own a home today than be the case in 2000 . I have skin in the game : I have three child and I want they to be able to buy a house without come to mummy and daddy to help they out . I bet my hon . friend do — she should declare an interest ! yes , I should declare that interest . this amount to an economic failure , but also to a social failure . home ownership give people stability , autonomy and long - term security . it encourage save , it strengthen family and it foster pride and a sense of genuine community in our town and village . abolish stamp duty will save family thousand of pound and put the many benefit of home ownership back into reach for the next generation . do my hon . friend agree that cut stamp duty will not only benefit young people aspire to home ownership , but act as an incentive for old people to downsize , free up large family home and make they available for family that need to increase the size of the house they own ? I will make that exact same point later in my speech , and I completely agree that that be a relevant change that will come from this policy . I clearly see in my constituency the way in which stamp duty choke and distort the market as it penalise those who move , create a disincentive for old people to downsize and deter grow family from upsize into more suitable family home . as the Institute for Fiscal Studies have put it , in a crowded field , stamp duty land tax be " the most economically damaging tax in the UK . " I can not disagree with that . my constituent feel that acutely . stamp duty be all the more painful in an area where the average house price be now above £ 490 , 000 . the young family I speak to , who have make the move out of London and settle in town such as Redhill or Reigate , have be hit with eye - water up - front cost that make those move extremely challenging . many more will have find it impossible . that be why our policy matter . we intend to strip away one of the fundamental barrier to family life in this country . eliminate stamp duty will save the average first - time buyer in the south - east around £ 4 , 000 and as much as £ 18 , 000 in London . unlike the Labour party , we will not punish those look to move far up the ladder with frozen threshold and stealth tax hike . I would , of course , be expect to paint a suitably positive view of the proposal , but what do the expert think ? zoopla ' s Richard Donnell have rightly say , " More home move would support economic growth and the ambition to build more home . " the Institute of Economic Affairs go far , call this " the single good reform any government could make to Britain ' s tax system . " indeed , the case seem so strong that one have to wonder why the Government oppose we on this . the truth be that Labour have always be the party of high taxis on home . it reverse the conservative policy that raise the first - time buyer threshold to £ 425 , 000 . it be freeze stamp duty threshold in real term , drag more and more people into pay this punitive tax each year . while it talk endlessly about house building , its action tell a different story . not only be it on track to miss its self - impose housing target , but the Housing Secretary try to block 237 new home in his constituency despite promise to " build , baby , build " . by contrast , the Conservatives have deliver 2 . 8 million home over the past 14 year , include nearly 750 , 000 affordable home , and we pledge to go far . I represent a rural constituency where young people be constantly force to move away from the village they grow up in . will the hon . Lady explain to I where in rural Britain those affordable home be locate , where young people could move to and make a family life ? for 14 year , they be shut out of the community they grow up in . the hon . member raise an important point . we have this situation where a lot of young people be force to go elsewhere ; indeed , the area where I live be very expensive and I be worried that my child will be force to look elsewhere . that be why it be so important that we now focus on the future . be that not the fundamental point , and why the comment make early about downsize be so important ? this tax stop people downsize , which mean that people be not move out and not free up the house that young people could and should be move into . my hon . friend make the point very well . go back to the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) , we need to take this seriously . we can either look back the whole time , or we can look forward and think about what policy be right for the people of this country and deliver for the people of this country . that point show the complexity of the issue . paint it with " 14 year this " and " 14 year that " do not represent what be happen . in Fylde , we have see the large amount of house building take place in the village and small town , because developer know that they can get planning permission there and sell the house for a lot more than they could 5 or 10 mile in a different direction . in some area , there have be significant overdevelopment on the green belt , and we should not use individual example as a reason to redefine vast chunk of the green belt as grey belt simply in order to concrete over our countryside . my hon . friend ' s excellent point be pertinent to my constituency as well , which be full of amazing and beautiful green - belt land . we be suffer from what this Government have do on housing target , which have double in Reigate and banstead while go down in London . that mean that we be build more home , but not for local people and not for the child the hon . member for Hexham mention , who want to stay close to home . it be for people live in London who then move out to reigate and Banstead . do my hon . friend share my concern that in the south - west of England , the Government have reduce the building target for Bristol city council , which have a lot of Labour member , and have instead increase the building target for rural Somerset , where there be few labour member , by 40 % ? do she share my concern that Labour be fiddle the housing target for political advantage ? I thank my hon . friend for yet another relevant and important point . I urge the Government to think logically about what they be try to achieve . we all support the ambition to build more home and recognise the problem that need to be solve . however , the way we do it be really important , and it be important that we have those home in the right place and that we set the target in a logical and meaningful way . with this policy , and other like it , we be offer the public a clear choice between a party that want to unlock aspiration and reward the hard work of our young people and a party that cling to economically damage taxis because its own back Benchers refuse to make even the small concession on out - of - control spending . we on the conservative Benches be clear that any significant change to tax policy must be properly cost . the public finance be in a challenging place , and reckless commitment only add to the prevail sense of uncertainty . that be why it be so important to emphasise that our intention to scrap stamp duty on primary residence be cost , fully fund and fully pay for through our £ 47 billion saving package . our plan be clear : it be cost and it be root in a belief that home ownership should be within reach of the next generation , just as it be for our own . this debate capture the key difference between conservative and the Labour party , because we on the conservative Benches believe in people . we believe in their talent , their drive , their hope and their aspiration . by contrast , the Labour party like to box people in , to restrict , to regulate and to let the state determine every aspect of their life . we on this side of the House believe in set people free to work hard , to achieve and to build their own future . let we unleash the power of individual freedom . let we unleash the energy of the maker and of enterprise . above all , let we unleash the unstoppable force of aspiration across every part of the UK . the word " aspiration " run through the very dna of the Conservative party . it be who we be , from deliver educational reform and promote social mobility to deliver a property - own democracy . I would be grateful if the hon . Member would expand on how that drive value of aspiration come into the Conservative Government when they be completely fail to address the urgent need for leasehold reform over the past five year , when so many people have be suffer and unable to sell their leasehold home because of the cladding on those home . where be the aspiration then ? I will give the hon . member an example of conservative aspiration . my family never own their own home — my grandparent do not own their own home — but Margaret Thatcher give they the opportunity to do so . she give many people like my grandparent the opportunity to aspire , to achieve and to own their own home . that be the aspiration we need to get back to as a country . every generation of Conservatives have understand this ambition . it be not our background that shape our future . this be equality of opportunity in action , not the equality of outcome that the Labour party desire so much . we can not talk about aspiration without celebrate the Prime Minister who understand it well . Mrs Thatcher give people the freedom to own their own future . she reward hard work through low taxis , turn million of people into shareholder through privatisation and make dream of home ownership a reality for many across the country with her right - to - buy scheme . Mrs Thatcher just get it ; she understand human nature . she understand that people be ambitious and she know that when we trust individual and not the state , Britain succeed . go back to what a former fantastic , great Prime Minister do — and compare it with the policy on stamp duty — we know that it be hate by Labour Members , because it take away the choke role of the state and free people up to have that aspiration and that social mobility . it prove that allow people to buy their own home and remove the state from their life create social mobility in the same way that remove that tax and allow people the aspiration to smash those ceiling be important . Labour member hate it because it would reduce the size of the state , the dependency on the state and the hold that they have over people ' s life . my hon . friend be absolutely right . unfortunately , Labour Members tend to have the mantra : what I can not have , you shall not have . we on the Conservative Benches want everyone to succeed . I be still smart from my hon . friend ' s reluctance to squash the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) , who allege that there have be no leasehold reform . such be the extent of leasehold reform under conservative government that the Duke of Westminster resign from the party in indignation . I thank my right hon . friend for put that on record . I be not confident that this Labour Government understand aspiration , because they simply can not comprehend the politic of people want to better themselves , their family and their community . sadly , they actually fear aspiration , and that be why this Labour Government be the most anti - aspirational Government in live memory . they have strangle the job market and they have send unemployment rate soar . that be the direct result of their punish employer national insurance hike , and their reckless unemployment right Bill be strike fear into business up and down the country as they question whether to take a punt on recruit new people , particularly young people . the Government have cave in to the hard leave on much - need reform to the welfare system — a system that should reward hard work and not entrench state dependency . as be always the case with a Labour Government , they invariably side with the shirker and not with the striver . sadly , they have drive our economy into a full - blow doom loop : a cycle of ever - increase taxis , rise inflation and net zero growth . every hard - work family in Mid Leicestershire be pay the price for this Government ' s failure , but what be most damaging of all be not the economic damage ; it be the lack of a can - do attitude that they be instill in our young people . what have surprise I about this debate be that several Labour Members have seem to agree that this stamp duty proposal would be a good thing to do , and , as far as I can tell , every commentator on the property market and economic have say the same thing , and yet the Government just do not seem to want to do it . my hon . friend put the case very clearly , and he be absolutely right . Labour member talk about intergenerational unfairness , but they do nothing about it . we conservative believe in encourage young people to determine their own future . my hon . friend speak of intergenerational fairness . do he agree that the status quo hinder old householder who may be asset - rich and cash - poor , because the value of their property have increase — fortunately for they — but not necessarily their income ? stop this policy in its track would stop old people who may be desperate to downsize , know that to do so would be to play their part in provide home for other family , but who simply can not afford to because the stamp duty on more expensive property be unpayable . I thank my hon . friend for make an excellent point . many people come to my surgery and make that point month in , month out . that be why this conservative motion matter . by abolish stamp duty , we would be empower young people to aspire to own their own home and invest in their own future . that be what a responsible government do , give people the tool to achieve their ambition . this policy will not only transform life , but boost the economy , stimulate growth in the property market and add an incredible £ 17 billion to our gdp over 10 year . we see the result when the last Conservative Government cut stamp duty in 2021 . People take the opportunity to invest in their own future . this be the conservative way : low taxis , great ownership and rediscovered aspiration . I will be vote for this aspirational motion table by the Leader of the Opposition , who understand that it be not just a question of economic , but a question of value . we should choose freedom over control , ambition over dependency and aspiration over stagnation . that be the conservative vision for Britain , and it be one that I know my constituent in Mid Leicestershire — particularly the young people — will get behind . access to home ownership have never be hard . few and few people can afford to buy a home of their own , and 12 , 000 household in my county of Somerset be languish on the waiting list unable to get a home at a decent rent . we have hear a lot about Mrs Thatcher , but since the sell - off of council house begin , 2 . 3 million be never replace . the Conservatives break that promise over and over again , so although our population have increase by five time that amount , we have have a massive loss of home for social and council rent ; several conservative Governments never replace they . by tax transaction , stamp duty land tax be unfair on buyer . it need to be reform , but , as my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) have say , as part of a full review of property taxis . the vast majority of first - time buyer would be completely unaffected by the Opposition ' s proposal , because they already pay no stamp duty land tax . it seem clear that , by trigger a big increase in house price , the policy would mostly benefit those who be sell home at high price , and probably only those right at the beginning of the chain . more importantly , wipe out tax revenue without wide tax reform or any serious proposal for the result massive hole in public finance would be another Liz Truss Budget in the making . perhaps she plant the magic money tree , but this autumn we be see the fruit of it in more mad conservative tax proposal . it seem clear that the Conservatives have learn nothing from the Truss Budget ' s rocket of inflation and increase of mortgage rate , which affect everyone in my constituency . the interest rate on the bond market be now high than they be after that mini - Budget . constantly hark back to that , when we be in a bad position now than we be then , make the point that the Lib Dems be on everybody ' s and nobody ' s side . I understand why Conservative member keep ask we to look forward not backwards : their own Government ' s experience with the Truss Budget be one that they do not want to remember and would like to forget , but unfortunately its effect be long , far - reach and serious for all of our constituent . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . I follow he when I give my maiden speech and it be good to see he in his place . do it not say everything that Conservative Members be now defend the Truss Budget and all the damage that it do to community like mine and his ? absolutely . they have no recollection of the past , they be blind to the experience of their own government , and they be only ask , urge and plead we to look forward , not back at their own record . in Taunton and Wellington , there be countless example of folk who be unable to afford a home of their own . Rosanna , a qualified solicitor , have be live with her parent for over six year because she be unable to afford a new home . what be need be a far big focus on build the council and social rent home that be need by our country . the Liberal Democrats propose to raise the number from the Government ' s target of 20 , 000 per year to 150 , 000 per year . there should be less reliance on a few big house builder developer , whose interest , perfectly reasonably , be in increase profit and the value of their land , rather than in make their product cheap — why would they ? — or in necessarily increase the amount of housing supply . Less reliance on the big developer and more council and social rent home deliver by public funding would mean that there would be no need for the Government to cut the affordable housing requirement in London , as they do last week . our manifesto provide £ 6 billion a year over five year to begin to achieve not just the 90 , 000 social rent home that Shelter and the National Housing Federation say that we need , but our manifesto target of 150 , 000 home . a decent home should not be for just the most vulnerable and exclude ; all work people should be able to have a home with a decent rent . couple with that , we need new route to be available for people to get on to the home ownership ladder and a new generation of rent - to - own home , where renter can gain ownership over 30 year . the hon . Member be make a powerful speech , as he always do . however , there be a gape hole in his argument when it come to people who be look not for their first home , but for a big home , which may be a new property or a property that already exist . what would he say to his Taunton constituent who be in that middle bracket , give that he will be vote not to scrap stamp duty ? that land tax will hinder they from take a step up the ladder , whether by buy one of the many new home that he admirably want deliver in his constituency or by buy a home that already exist . I would point my constituent to the comment make by Lucian Cook , the head of research at Savills , who have say that the propose SDLT giveaway would simply pass straight into house price . it would have very little , if any , effect on people ' s ability to buy home , whether they be downsize or not . the hon . Gentleman be be very generous with his time . I may have misheard , so will he clarify for the benefit of the House ? at the beginning of his remark , I think that he say that this be a very bad tax and that it be harmful , but then , as only a Lib Dem could , he proceed to argue strongly in its favour . will he help I out , because I be not follow the line of his argument ? the right hon . member , for whom I usually have respect , be clearly not listen to what I say . it be possible for there to be several feature to a change in tax policy . our argument , as my hon . friend the Member for St Albans point out , be that we need a comprehensive review of property taxis . the effect of the stamp duty holiday be to increase house price . it may , none the less , be a valuable policy , because it may free up transaction , as my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) argue . my observation be that these be not the policy that will help people who be struggle to afford a home to rent and to get on the housing ladder in the first place . they may be valuable for other reason , but they will not address that problem . as I say , couple with that we need a big investment in rent - to - own housing . since 2015 — this be the big point , which would be unaffected by the conservative proposal — the multiple of income need to get a mortgage , as my hon . friend have point out , have rise from four - and - a - half to six - and - a - half time their income . without more genuinely affordable home in significant number and wide tax reform , this cut be unfunded . it will leave first - time buyer with nothing new and transfer fund to the wealthy . that be simply not enough to help my constituent . we need a much more ambitious renaissance in the building of council and social rent home , and we need new measure to help people to get on to the housing ladder . I be glad that my hon . friend be call out the consequence of thatcherite policy . do he agree that no country have suffer more from thatcherite policy than Wales ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion of his constituency in Wales and have experience the effect of the reduction in and dwindle of council and social rent home around the country in Wales , as in other part of the country , include in my own constituency . we use to have 30 , 000 council home available , but we now have only 6 , 000 , and that number be go down every year . this be not about the broken promise not to allow people to buy their home ; it be about the broken promise of not replace those council and social rent home . that have to be address , and it be never address by multiple conservative government . without those change and wide tax reform and investment in social and council rent home , this policy on its own would do nothing to help my constituent , and I be unable to support it . in prepare for this debate , I be think about my history when it come to stamp duty . I recall quite vividly go to see a mortgage broker on Dedworth Road in Windsor — I be not quite sure what year it be ; perhaps I be in my late 20 . I have be quite dutifully save for some year in order to achieve my aspiration , which a lot of young people have , to get a foot on the property ladder . I remember that I dutifully take my payslip and bank statement , and the mortgage broker turn to I and laugh . he say , " congratulation on save that , Mr Rankin . you have now save the stamp duty ; we just have to save up for a deposit . " it be a joke , but it be kind of true . there have be lot of criticism of our record , but one of the thing we Conservatives do in office that I be most hearten by be remove first - time buyer from stamp duty . that be incredibly powerful for young people in this country . I might have to declare an interest that be not just historical . I be a father with a young family — we have two boy under the age of four . housing be incredibly expensive in my constituency , with the average house cost around £ 750 , 000 . we be consider a third child , and just like family up and down the country we be discuss what that mean . the particular limiting decision for my family , despite we want a third child , be housing . we live in a wonderful home in the village of Sunninghill that be probably okay for three babe and tot , but it would not be okay for a grow family . that be the kind of decision that be be make up and down this country . one of the thing that have make I proud this afternoon to sit on the Conservative Benches be listen to some Labour Members , because from some there have be a sneer assumption that stamp duty be a tax for the rich . when I think about myself and many young people in their early 20 try to put together their stamp duty , I do not think that be a tax cut for the rich . when I think about family try to get another bedroom in order to grow their family , I do not think that be a tax cut for the rich . that be not go into any of the other dynamic effect at all . I be proud that on the Conservative Benches , we stand up for aspirational people . if we think about the crowded field of all the taxis we might want to cut , to my mind stamp duty be where we might start . we have hear from many member who have quote distinguished economist — much more distinguished than anything I might come out with — but it be clear that stamp duty be one of those taxis that destroy almost as much wealth as it raise . it be anti - growth , anti - ambition and anti - free market , and as I have already articulate , I think it be anti - family . it be a significant part of the reason why this country have such a lethargic housing market . this be all despite the fact that home ownership be not only key to our prosperity ; perhaps even more so , it be important to people ' s pride and the security of million of family around this country . it be the foundation of this great property - own democracy , but as a nation , we be not in a great state when it come to housing . for my generation and the generation behind I , home ownership sometimes look quite impossible . to fix this , our focus must be on supply , supply , supply , but we also need a market that flow freely . frankly , today ' s housing market be gum up . be my hon . friend aware that the parliamentary Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , use to be part of the Resolution Foundation — that well - know right - wing think tank — which itself have call for the abolition of stamp duty to free up the housing market in the way my hon . friend be describe ? I would say that I hope the hon . member in question be close to this Budget , but have listen to some of his other utterance , perhaps most of we on the conservative Benches would not hope for that . never mind ! the main criticism we have hear from Government Members , which be a fair criticism , be that of cost . there have be some constructive criticism from Labour Members who have agree that stamp duty be a bad tax , but have then say that cost be the problem . they should be a little bit self - aware about that , because one of the reason we be in such a fiscally precarious place be that some of the decision the Government make in their previous Budget have put we in something of a fiscal doom loop , which we do not seem to have any chance of escape . while we be on the subject of pay for thing and ownership of land — try to find the fund to abolish a tax and allow our citizen to purchase their own home — one obvious solution would be to not give away territory that we already own and pay £ 36 billion over the lifetime of the deal to do so . one way of pay for this policy that my hon . friend might suggest to Labour Members be to avoid pay to give away our own land , take money off our citizen who want to buy their own land . my hon . friend be quite right . although we be at risk of pick apart the Budget in its entirety , I would suggest that give away our sovereign land and pay for the privilege might not be a great thing to do at any time , but particularly in a fiscally constrain environment . despite have to have a reasonable answer on the question of cost , which I will get to later in my remark , Conservative Members should not be shy when it come to talk about some of the other positive fiscal benefit that abolish stamp duty would yield . one area in which we conservative have not do as well as we could be that of make the positive , dynamic argument for some tax cut , because every move in the housing market engage a raft of remover , decorator , window cleaner , gardener , plumber and electrician . do those sound like the kind of people who could be describe as " the rich " , as we have hear from Labour member ? these be real work people with decent job , generate income for the Exchequer through vat , income tax and national insurance , and we should not be shy about say that . if we be lucky , abolish stamp duty might also lead to a reduction in welfare spending through job creation . there be also gain that can not be record in a spreadsheet . those include family such as mine move into home that be the right size for they , and pensioner rightsize — some people have use downsize , but I think rightsize be the well word — to be close to their grandchild , which might provide childcare support for young family . they also include economic and social mobility , such as take a promotion in a new area . those thing might not show up on a Treasury balance sheet , but they be really important thing for our society . cut stamp duty would generate extra revenue for the Treasury in myriad way that we should be happy to talk about . that say , as a credible opposition , we still need to cost this policy . that be why , as we have hear already in this debate , the conservative party have find £ 47 billion of saving , all while be able to honour our golden economic rule . that economic rule say that the majority of public sector spending reduction that we identify must go on deficit reduction . as a policy , the abolition of stamp duty align with many of the principle that those of we on the opposition Benches hold dear to our heart . it reward ambition , it unlock free market , and it lower the tax burden on family . labour will not make any difference on housing because it be just too conflicted . fix the housing market need holistic solution . we can not talk about improve the housing market with the level of migration that we currently have . we can not talk about improve the housing market while oversee record low house building number in London , as our developer be strangle in regulation . we need a holistic solution . we need to abolish stamp duty . we need to end mass migration . we need , I be afraid to say , to deport hundred of thousand of illegal migrant . I look forward to see more ambition from the opposition on reform our planning system . that be part of a vision for my party , and I be proud to be a part of it . however , it be not a new vision . home ownership and supply - side reform have be at the centre of the conservative vision throughout our storied history , whether that be Stanley Baldwin , Harold Macmillan or Mrs Thatcher . it be a moral mission to support young aspirant people through these important gateway of life . buy your own home and start a family — these be the building block of all our community . abolish stamp duty in this costed way will give people the key to their own future and secure the future of this country . all of we here want to improve the life of our constituent , though we often differ in how we might achieve that . as a Conservative , I believe we do so by work with the grain of human nature , by allow people the maximum amount of liberty to live their life , by support family , by reward hard work , rather than penalise it , and by incentivise entrepreneurship and the creation of wealth . as legislator , we do that by keep the size of the state under control , keep borrow low and reduce the burden on taxpayer wherever possible . it be with regret that I see this current Labour Government increase taxis , increase borrowing , increase the deficit and our national debt , and increase the interest we pay on that debt . it sadden I that we have a Government whose answer , whatever the question , always seem to be more public expenditure . I be pleased therefore that not only will the conservative party reduce taxis when we form the next government , but will scrap one altogether . stamp duty be a bad tax . the current stamp duty regime mean that anyone seek to buy their first home or to move house face an additional burden at one of the most important moment in their life . by eliminate this tax on main home , the Conservatives would be remove a financial barrier , which for many first - time buyer or young family make the difference between own their first home or not . my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) allude to that in his excellent speech . it would mean the dream of home ownership be make more accessible . while stamp duty have be around since 1694 , the current regime be introduce by Gordon Brown in 2003 . when it come into effect , it charge a fix percentage rate depend on the value of a house — the so - call slab system . it mean that when the price go from £ 250 , 000 to £ 250 , 001 , people face an enormous increase in the tax pay . the coalition Government , to their credit , reform the tax so as to remove the tax from those purchase a property for under £ 125 , 000 . they eliminate the slab in the model with a slice model . that make the tax well , but the core problem remain . stamp duty make it hard to purchase a house . it dissuade people from upsize or downsize , and therefore prevent a host of other economic activity associate with move house . a vibrant housing market be vital to economic health . when more people buy and move , transaction increase , new home be build , tradespeople be employ , and local economy benefit . the tax on each move discourage those transaction . People stay put because of the cost of move , and that can lead to the housing market lock up . scrap stamp duty on primary home will free up the market . that will have benefit not just for buyer and seller , but for builder , developer , local service , and the whole national economy . there be a fairness argument , too . buy a home be one of the large investment that most people will ever make , and to tax that moment seem not just counterintuitive but perverse . remove the tax on a main residence signal a commitment to give people a chance to grow , to aspire and to build their life . those be conservative principle , and the announcement make by my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition in Manchester recognise that . I entirely agree with my right hon . friend that this change will create " a fair and more aspirational society . " my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that when supply be tight , if we allow people to move more easily , the right people will be in the home that be right for their time of life ? an elderly couple in a five - bedroom house will make the choice to downsize , while a family can upsize to the right house . when supply be tight , that fit much well for we as a society . my hon . friend have make a valuable point . this tax cut benefit not just the first - time buyer , but the family move into a large home and the empty nester — I be almost one — seek to move into a small house . may I take up my hon . friend ' s point about the dynamic market that we need ? People in south - east England may be think of move to , for instance , Beverley and Holderness to take up a job , but may be put off by the cost involve , and the risk that they be take in move to an area where there may be only that one job for they , and no other job to compete with it . so they do not make that move , and we do not benefit from their input into a business in Beverley and Holderness , purely because of the dampening effect of this tax . they stay in the south - east , although they , the country and Beverley and Holderness would be well off if only they be incentivise to move and take a chance . that be another valuable point . this tax cut benefit not just the housing market but the job market , and therefore the whole economy . our politic ought to empower people , not load they with additional burden . this be an important measure for young people , because , as we acknowledge , they face high cost and more competition for housing than their parent do . to be credible , we must explain how we will pay for this measure . that be a valid question , and , unlike some party in this place , we will not make promise without a plan for delivery . the measure be possible as part of a wide package of economic reform , spend discipline and growth creation . the Government be elect on a policy of " go for growth " , yet everything that they do seem design to bring about the opposite . a job tax make it more expensive to employ people ; high business rate make it more expensive to conduct business in a property ; the change in agricultural and business property relief — increase inheritance tax — reduce investment by family business ; and the Employment Rights Bill make it more expensive , time - consume and difficult to employ people . the Government have turn on the spending tap and levy record level of tax , while at the same time implement measure that increase unemployment and make Britain less competitive . every Labour Government have lead to high unemployment , and it be deeply regrettable that in every month since the general election , unemployment have rise . I do not think that the Government be malevolent ; they simply have no clue about how business work . the conservative party ' s position on the green economy be now to remove some of the support for it . figure show that the green economy be grow by around 10 % ; it be fuel job creation and often provide well - pay job . do the hon . Gentleman believe that it be in the economy ' s interest to cut the leg out from underneath the green economy ? well , I be amazed to hear that the real economy be grow by 10 % . that must be a forecaster I have not hear of ! we believe it be possible to cut welfare spending . in fact , a few month ago , the hon . Gentleman ' s party believe it be possible . the Government put forward a modest proposal to reduce welfare spending by £ 5 billion , which have our support , yet , unfortunately , at the first whiff of rebellion , the Chancellor cave . that show that the Government have no idea how finance work , how business work or how confidence work . they undermine their credibility by be unable to undertake even the small reform . we can announce the abolition of stamp duty because we have promise to put Britain on a different track . our golden rule mean that , for every pound we make in saving , half will go on reduce the deficit and pay down our debt . we will reduce spending by £ 47 billion a year , and have announce plan to do so . about half of that will come from cut the welfare bill , include stop the ballooning bill for Motability car for those with mild mental health issue . some £ 8 billion of saving will come from reduce the civil service to the size it be before the pandemic . we will save money by close asylum hotel , reserve other benefit to UK national , and come to a more credible position on net zero . by take those tough choice , we can cut taxis and help the economy . we estimate that abolish stamp duty will cost £ 9 billion , which be set against the saving we have outline . by pledge to remove it , we be signal that we believe in growth , in enterprise and in enable every citizen to build their future . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on this important topic , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be one that I be passionate about . I get involve in politic to make people ' s live well , and to be on the side of those who work hard , do the right thing and aspire for themselves and their family . that be the fundamental point at the core of this argument . my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) make a great point when he say that this be a moral mission . it be a moral mission to be on the side of those who be aspirational , and to unlock the hope and dream of a generation who want a tangible stake in society but have great fear that they will never have it . stamp duty , for many , be a tax on that dream home , on that bridge between where they be today and where they want to go tomorrow , particularly for their family . we have hear a lot in this debate about first - time buyer , and it be right that we focus on they ; it be particularly shameful that one of the first act of this Labour Government be to lower the threshold at which stamp duty be impose on those first - time buyer . but once a first - time buyer have be in their home for a few year and have a child , and maybe a second , and want to move up the property ladder into a house that will well meet their need , that be when this tax really start to bite . constituent have approach I to say that they be able to afford a mortgage on their next home , and have even identify one that they want to move into , but the stamp duty prevent they from move . what strike I about this argument between the two side of the House — and , in fact , between opposition party as well — be that many make the case that if we remove stamp duty , it would cause house price to rise . if it be remove as a temporary measure , there would be a chance of that happen , but if it be remove in perpetuity , the housing market would regularise without a huge increase in price . that be the key to unlock the aspiration that so many have for themselves and their family . I do not believe that Labour member have particularly nefarious intent ; I can only conclude that their position really do demonstrate the politic of envy . it be a fact of life that some in society will always have more wealth than other — the scale be always relative — but even if those at the upper end of the wealth scale benefit from the abolition of stamp duty , those further down the chain will also benefit . the great reality of this proposal be that it be universal in its application , so everyone will benefit . this be fundamentally about unlock mobility and the aspiration of so many . it apply not just to first - time buyer and those want to move up the ladder , but to those who want to downsize , whom we have hear so much about today . there be plenty of constituent across Bromsgrove and the village who be asset - rich but cash - poor , and who be trap in large house but would like to downsize , should the fiscal incentive be there for they to do so . stamp duty , in the form of ten of thousand of pound , be absolutely key in so many case . a really important issue , especially for elderly people who be catch in a large home , be social care . we need to make sure that healthcare and support be there as people get old . if they find themselves trap in a large house , how do we make sure that it be modify ? that have an additional cost , which be often lose . do my hon . friend agree that free up such people to move offer they the benefit of save money ? my hon . friend make a valid and important point . that be one of the great peripheral benefit of this policy , should the Government embrace it , and I encourage they to look seriously at it . I encourage the Government to vote for this motion , even if only to show their intent , and even if they can not implement it anytime soon . we have hear about the stimulus effect . the typical spend of a family move house be around £ 9 , 000 . my hon . friend the Member for Windsor point out that those employ in trade would benefit from save that money . these be people who be not necessarily rich ; they be hard worker who set their alarm in the morning . they be the very people who have aspiration for their family and want to be able to move up the property ladder . one of the fundamental ideology that have emanate from Labour Members be a denial of capitalism and the role that it play in drive up prosperity . my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) make this point eloquently : capitalism be not something that we should be afraid of ; it be the big driver of prosperity that the western world have know . Labour Members should embrace it with a little bit more vigour . a point that I have to touch on , because it affect my constituency so profoundly , be the Government ' s increase in housing target . we conservative Members be not anti - house building , but we believe that house building have to be proportionate . Bromsgrove and the village be a 79 % rural constituency . it really be the green buffer between Worcestershire and the urban sprawl of Birmingham . it be 89 % green belt , yet our housing target have increase by a staggering 85 % , whereas the housing target in adjacent Birmingham have decrease by over 30 % . I have give various minister various opportunity to address this point of the Floor of the House , but no one have be able to do so yet , so I can only assume that , in the word of my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , the Government be " fiddle " the figure for political reason . I would welcome it if the Minister could address the disproportionate burden that the Government ' s housing target be put on rural area , include Bromsgrove and the village . there be something that the Government could do to make the bitter pill of more housing easy to swallow , but they abandon the idea on day one : make high - quality design a central tenet in the planning system . the previous Government open the Office for Place , which be an advisory body that advise the Secretary of State on the quality of the build environment . every single government , regardless of political colour , should embrace the principle of good design , because they lead not just to good house , but to well community . if the Government can convey to community that new housing be not go to impose red - brick monotony that erode their sense of identity and character , there will be much more openness from community to the house building agenda . my hon . friend make an excellent point . one of the big concern I have be that the Government have take away the funding for neighbourhood plan . we know that neighbourhood plan give village their say in where plan housing go , but more importantly they deliver more housing . do he believe it be short - sighted to take away that funding , which will compound the problem he be talk about — he be discuss the aspect of style and design — of get community to take on extra housing ? my hon . friend be spot - on . that be incredibly short - sighted , and I think it will prove to be a false economy . I urge the Government to embrace good design to provide a justification to my constituent for why they be pursue the current house build target in such a disproportionate way across the country . Most of all , I implore the Government to put at the centre of their fiscal plan the scale of ambition that hard - work people have every single day when they set their alarm and go out to work — they want to do the right thing for their family . the Government must realise that pull the right fiscal lever and cut the right taxis will stimulate the very activity that will drive the growth they be so desperate to achieve . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor for set out the opening case for the Opposition ' s position on stamp duty . I feel particularly passionate about this policy , which be one I put forward when I be run for the leadership of the conservative party . like all good idea , it have be embrace by my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition . I be particularly glad — this be a key point — that my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor and his team have work hard to make sure that cut stamp duty be not just a headline , but a fully cost and set out policy . the Leader of the Opposition have , I think very magnanimously , say that if the Government want to steal this idea and implement it now , they will get no opposition from we . I think that show her typical generosity of spirit . the Government be clearly struggle to come up with credible economic plan of their own , so they be very welcome to steal our economic plan . I have be strike by the positive nature of this debate . as conservative colleague have note , the expect wall of thoughtless opposition to this proposal have not materialise at quite the scale we expect . it have materialise in some instance , but that be only to be expect . we hear in a number of speech , and I will refer to some contribution as I go through my speech , that Labour Members recognise that stamp duty be a bad tax , a counterproductive tax and a tax that have a dampening , drag - anchor effect on the housing market . however , they go on to say , " but we need the money . " they be desperate for the tax revenue , which I think show the fundamental challenge that , frankly , Labour be go to have to deal with in November . if the Government can not agree to get rid of this damaging , counterproductive tax , what tax will they be willing to reduce ? if they be go to say to the House that , basically , there be not a single tax in the british system that they be willing to cut , reduce or remove , then the mask have slip . under a Labour Government , this country face ever - increase taxis — that be basically what they be say . they admit that this be a bad tax , but they be not willing to vote for its removal because they want to see — they need to see , be desperate to see — taxis go up . that be fundamentally the argument put by many Government Members . do my right hon . friend agree that that be compound by the Government ' s position on spending reduction ? we see that on the Floor of the House , when the one attempt to make spending reduction be gutte mid - discussion , with proposal be pull from a Bill that deal with welfare . therefore , the Government will not make any spending cut either , which do not leave much else bar borrowing , in my estimation . my hon . friend be spot - on . that point be very well highlight by my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , who say that official Opposition feel that this damaging and counterproductive tax should be remove . as I have say , my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor have set out that that would be pay for by a reduction in the welfare bill — something that I know have universal support on our Benches . my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater highlight that a reduction in welfare spending be not only something that we think be a necessary and good idea , but something that Labour Front Benchers use to think be a necessary and a good idea until , with great leadership , they be tell by their Back Benchers to stop think that it be a necessary and a good idea , and to start think that it be a terrible idea . such leadership from the Back Benches be something that I admire from that party . if only Labour Front Benchers have anything like the spine of the Labour Back Benchers , the country might not be in quite such a dire economic state . Labour Members have basically say that they be unwilling to cut even the bad taxis because basically they want to see taxis go up . the Lib Dem position be yoga - like in its ability to bend — Pretzel - like . yes , pretzel - like . one after another , the speaker on the Lib Dem Benches stand up and say , " we agree that this be a bad tax . we agree that this be a counterproductive tax . we agree that it be a tax that need to go . " I , and I suspect other on the Conservative Benches , think , " here we go . here be the crescendo , the pi è ce de resistance , " and that those speech would end by say , " which be why you will see we in the Lobby with you , ensure that the motion be pass . " but that be not what we hear . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? in a minute — I have a punchline to get to . that be not what we hear . what we hear be , " we think this be a bad tax that should be get rid of , but we be not go to vote to say it be a bad tax that should be get rid of , because blah " — which be always the Lib Dems ' punchline . I be wait for an explosion of political integrity , only to be present with a political damp squib . I thank the right hon . gentleman for give way after his fantastic punchline , which everybody really enjoy . where be it ? exactly . he obviously be not pay enough attention to our argument . yes , we do agree with the analysis that stamp duty be a poor tax , but we could not support the motion , because we do not think there be a credible plan for abolish it . we would like to see a much more holistic review of property taxis , alongside a credible plan . there be no credible plan in the motion . we do not trust the public spending cut proposal that have be put forward . you ' ve get to love ' em , haven ' t you ? never see a fence they would not sit on , never see a position they would not contort around . " these be our principle " , they say , " but so be these , and so be these other one as well . " it be that clarity that we value from the Liberal Democrats . I will be a little clear on Labour ' s principle : we will not be join the Conservatives in the voting Lobby because we will not vote for unfunded tax cut that predominantly serve the wealthy and do nothing to help first - time buyer or ordinary work people up and down the country . that ' s how you do it ! that be how you actually have a position — it be the wrong position , but at least it be a position . the hon . Lady keep talk about unfunded tax cut , but she be get her language back to front . we do not fund a tax cut , because it be the british people who fund government spending , so when government spending be ease , it ease the burden on the british taxpayer . it be spend that need to be fund , not a reduction in spending . I will reinforce what I think be a number of strong intervention in support of the motion . I be strike by my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) speak about his own experience try to get on the housing ladder and how his enthusiasm be diminish by the realisation that stamp duty be go to make it even more difficult . the hon . member for Pendle and Clitheroe ( Jonathan Hinder ) make a legitimate point that this tax affect different part of the country very differently . he make the fair point that there will be many part of the country where it be not typical that people pay stamp duty land tax , or a significant quantum or scale of it , but that be not a good reason to deny this reduction in cost to those people in the country who do . although there might not be many in his constituency , I guarantee that he would not have to travel far before he start to meet people who be be dissuade from purchase property because of stamp duty land tax . certainly for member represent constituency near big city , wherever they be across the country , or constituency in the south , significant number of people pay this tax . it have be mention by many conservative Members — too many to single out — that this proposal would positively impact not just the people who pay , or may pay , stamp duty land tax . I guarantee that almost all of we can imagine the streetscape that I be about to describe from our constituency . there be perhaps victorian or edwardian semi - detached or detach house on what use to be the periphery of the town or city before it expand beyond that . it will typically be a band of property populate disproportionately by old couple or old people , who have often be in the constituency for many decade . their child have move out and they be now under - occupy those property with two , three or perhaps even four bedroom spare , but they be deter from downsize because they fear the stamp duty that they will have to pay . estimate show that 2 . 8 million people would consider downsize — or rightsize , as my hon . friend the Member for Windsor say — if stamp duty be remove . we would then have a ripple effect throughout the housing market , free up family home for people who be currently in overcrowded accommodation . not only that , but the London School of Economics estimate that for every housing transaction , an estimate £ 6 , 000 of economic activity be pump into the local market , with local builder do refurbishment , perhaps do extension and fitting new bathroom and kitchen , and people buy soft furnishing and white good — the sort of thing that people buy when they move . what type of business typically provide those good and service ? it be local business — small and medium - sized enterprise embed in their community . these be the people who be be deny economic activity because this tax be stifle the property market . we need liquidity in the property market . we need people buy and selling . we need people spend money with local business in local shop across the whole of the country . that be what reduce the tax burden on people do ; it be what remove the stamp duty land tax will achieve . yet on the Government and liberal Democrat Benches , Members be contort themselves to find excuse not to reduce this burdensome tax , and I genuinely do not understand why . some 2 . 8 million people could release their home on to the market ; if each of those home have two or three spare bedroom , that would immediately eclipse the 1 . 5 million home that Labour be desperately try to convince the country will be build under its tenure . it could be do almost immediately , without a brick be lay , and — more importantly — without the need for any Government subsidy . that be what the House be say no to , but not those on the conservative Benches . we on these Benches understand aspiration . the conservative party have always be the party of aspiration . we have always be the party that help people to get on and up the housing ladder — a noble and normal aspiration , and one that we support , even if other hon . member do not support it . the right hon . Gentleman wonder why this might not have happen . it might be something to do with the 14 billion quid that he have not work out how the Government will find . if it be so easy , why , in all those day before covid , do his party never do it in 14 year ? it be the Conservatives who reduce the stamp duty burden — something that be reverse almost immediately when Labour come into office . the simple truth be that the Conservatives have always be the party of home ownership and aspiration : help people to have a stake in not just the country and the economy , but their local community ; help parent to stay close to their own parent so that grandparent can see their grandchild ; create flexibility so that when job opportunity be create around the country , people can actually move to those job without face a financial penalty for do so . that be what be at stake . that be what we be propose . that be what the Conservatives will continually fight for , even in the face of opposition from Labour — a party that should be about aspiration and use to be about aspiration , but which have lose its way , drift from the path of righteousness , and , if Labour member do as they claim today , a party that will oppose the removal of what be regularly describe by economic expert as the single most damaging tax on our book . I will conclude with this point . [ interruption . ] I can continue if member want . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] no , I will conclude on this point . if member opposite and to my left — both physically and metaphorically — be unwilling to countenance the removal of what be pretty much universally describe as the single most counterproductive tax , what tax will they remove ? the mask have slip . labour can not and will not bring themselves to reduce any taxis . the british people will notice this , and so will the market . the unwillingness of the Labour party to make any difficult decision with regard to public spending or the reduction of the tax burden on the british people be not just painful for taxpayer themselves . it will be painful for our child and grandchild , who be go to pay increase amount of money to fund the spending that , as my colleague have say , be the only way that the Chancellor can try to dig herself out of this hole . that will be a burden on generation to come . I suspect we will divide on this motion , and when we do the choice will be between a party that seek to support aspiration , family , small business and the building trade , and those party that oppose all those thing and will increase the tax burden on british people , our child and grandchild , and indeed the great - grandchild of people alive today . that be not what my party be about or what this country should be about . I urge all those who want to do right by small business and future generation to support this motion and scrap this deeply counterproductive tax . I commend the motion to the House . I thank all hon . and right hon . member who have contribute to the debate . I especially thank the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my right hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) for his speech at the start , and the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) for bring forward this debate . I also thank the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) for conclude on behalf of the Opposition . with those nicety over , I turn to the substance of the motion we be debate , which , as the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say , be fundamentally flawed . despite the Leader of the Opposition ' s seemingly steadfast commitment to have no policy at all , which have now be very much abandon , Conservative Members have look back at their shockingly bad economic record and take the rather extraordinary view that they be well place to offer input and advice on the upcoming Budget , which be entirely a matter for the Chancellor to decide once she have see the OBR ' s forecast and which she will share with the House at the end of next month . the Conservatives have look at all of this , think for seemingly quite a long time about it , and decide that now be the right moment to offer some policy . the solution to all the hardship they inflict on the country during their time in power be more of the same : more unfunded tax cut , more instability , more austerity , more harm to our public service and , dare I say it , more of the approach that mean that their penultimate Prime Minister be outlast by a lettuce . will the Economic Secretary give way ? I will make some progress . that be the Conservatives ’ pitch to the british public — reckless with our public finance , reckless with our public service and reckless with the future of this country . conservative Members be compete to say how sad and angry they be about this tax . they will be furious when they find out which party give we the high tax burden since the second world war ! [ interruption . ] the motion be a seemingly straight - face argument from Conservative Members that we should do the exact thing that bring their 14 year of government to an end . it be proof that they have learn — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . Mr Stuart , be it an actual point of order ? I think the Minister be come to a conclusion , so we be just prevent our business from progress . minister , Front Benchers or Members not take intervention be not necessarily a point of order . do you want to proceed ? I would like to proceed , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ Laughter . ] I wonder if there be anything the Chair can do to help the Minister . she appear unaware that her own Government , for whom she be a Treasury Minister , have bring we to the high ever level of tax in this country . order . it be not my job to write yours or the Minister ' s speech — if only . that be not a point of order . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the motion be proof that the Conservatives have learn none of the lesson of their catastrophic mini - Budget or of the year of the punish austerity that be inflict on the people and institution of this country , with nothing whatsoever to show for it but soar debt , low productivity and devastated household finance . let I be clear that stamp duty be not a beloved tax — far from it ; it be no more beloved than any other taxis — but it be an effective tax that raise billion of pound annually , with those buy the most expensive property contribute the most . that contribution be vital to the upkeep of our public service , our NHS , our school and our armed force . abolish it would take billion out of the public purse — £ 13 . 9 billion alone . it would be a multibillion - pound tax cut affect the budget of our most essential service . it be the same horror show from the same old conservative , wildly swinge their scythe at public service without a care in the world for the consequence for our NHS , our school and our armed force . which service would Conservative Members want to cut down this time ? would it be few nurse , few soldier or few police officer ? [ interruption . ] conservative member be ask I whether I be ask they . I be more than aware that in the debate they reference their fantasy economic base on welfare cut . the shadow Chancellor oversee the big increase in benefit spending in decade when he be Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . if he truly believe that welfare spending need cut , why do he let it balloon ? we have hear from various hon . member about their objection to this tax and about all sort of thing they imagine might be in the Budget . just to be clear , do the Minister agree that this be a bad tax ? would she , in a perfect world , seek to find way of control public expenditure so that the tax could be remove and people across the country — first - time buyer and the elderly in particular — could benefit from that ? it be a tax , so obviously I do not love it , but what I find extraordinary be the conservative party ' s new - find hatred of taxation when they increase taxis 25 time in the last Parliament . as I say , we hear from various hon . member about their objection to this tax . I will not engage on the point make about the Budget , for obvious reason , except to repeat that we be committed to a single major fiscal event per year where the Chancellor will set out any tax decision in the usual way alongside the OBR ' s forecast . that fiscal event will take place , as everyone know , on 26 November , at which point there will be plenty of time to discuss and debate the decision that the Chancellor take in the Budget . I want to speak to some of the point raise during the debate . we hear plenty from Conservative member about why they want to abolish stamp duty . I think some point be make thoughtfully ; I say that in a well - mean way . I be sorry to say , however , that we hear absolutely nothing from Conservative Members on their appalling economic record . we hear nothing from they on their appalling record on house building — save for the acknowledgment of the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) — nothing on the waste of public money from the fraud on their watch , and nothing whatsoever that could be describe as fiscal responsibility . we hear from some of my hon . friend on the Labour Benches about the urgent need to build more house in this country , give our appalling inheritance . that be the key way that we solve the housing crisis . I pay tribute to the thoughtful speech of my hon . friend the Members for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) , for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) , for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) and for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , and to my hon . friend the Members for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) and for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) , who speak powerfully of the consequence of the conservative party ' s mismanagement of the economy , which include food bank , poverty and , of course , the housing crisis . I welcome the commitment of the right hon . member for North West Hampshire . he talk about the need to build more housing and , indeed , about beautiful housing . I assure he that that be exactly the type of housing that this Government will facilitate be build — although I note that his colleague take he straight back to oppose development no soon have he make that point . I also welcome his mini - insight into the infighting of the last government . the hon . Lady may recall that it be a Labour Secretary of State who remove the word " beautiful " from the national planning policy framework . how do she expect to have those beautiful design if that have be take away as a standard within the guidance that her Government provide ? I assure he that the house will be beautiful and that we will build 1 . 5 million of they over the course of this Parliament . there be a brief reference to Nirvana from the conservative Benches before a descent back into half - baked and unfunded plan , to which we on the Government Benches think , " well , Nevermind . " have a word with your official ; that be very bad . Stick to the day job . thank you . I be pleased to hear the Liberal Democrats spokesman , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , and other in the party say that they will oppose the motion . I wholeheartedly agree with she that it be fundamentally flawed . to be clear , we be a Government of fiscal responsibility . our steadfast commitment to the fiscal rule have bring stability to our economy and allow we to boost investment by £ 120 billion over the course of this Parliament . the dividend of that approach , even after just a year , be already clear : the high growth in the G7 in the first half of this year , cut to interest rate , real wage rise more in the time since the last election than they do in 10 year of Conservative Government , record investment from overseas , and new home and infrastructure progress all over the country . that be a strong foundation to build on in the year ahead . today , we have debate a simple question of two vision for the country . put another way , do this country go forwards or backwards ? the conservative party want we to go back — back to its time in office , when Britain have a government that pursue unfunded tax cut and austerity , lead to soar debt , low productivity , under - investment and anaemic growth . it be a Britain where we do not build infrastructure , include house , and where far too many people be unable to get on the housing ladder . this Government want the country to move forward . we be manage the public finance with stability and certainty in an uncertain world . we be a Government who invest in public service , our infrastructure and our community , and work with business and local leader to bring growth and opportunity to every part of the country . we be a Government who be build house , include in area of the country that the shadow Secretary of State — she miss out the word " few " . it be " few house " . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be afraid that I be be interrupt . we be a Government who be build house , include in area of the country that the shadow Secretary of State have previously describe in rather unparliamentary language . we be a Government who support work people with new job , high wage and new home . we be a Government who be commit to build 1 . 5 million new home this Parliament and to restore the dream of home ownership . we be a Government who will not duck the difficult decision but face into they , because that be the only way that we will deliver a decade of national renewal and a thriving economy for the people of this country . that be what today ' s debate be about : backwards with fiscal irresponsibility from the Conservatives or forwards with economic stability , investment and reform under this Prime Minister and this Chancellor . question put . Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Caroline Dinenage iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Laura Trott Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Nick Timothy David Reed Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Imogen Walker Gregor Poynton the House divide : Ayes 103 , Noes 329 . question accordingly negative . China Spying Case I inform the House that Mr Speaker have not select the propose amendment . I call the shadow Minister . I beg to move , that this House call on the Government to release the minute of the meeting chair by the National Security Adviser on 1 September 2025 , at which the prosecution of the two allege chinese spy , since drop by the Crown Prosecution Service , be discuss , include all action arise from that meeting ; and far call on the Government to publish the minute of all other meeting where the case be discuss , whether by official or with Ministers , all relevant correspondence between the Crown Prosecution Service and the Government and between Departments , include correspondence between the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , Cabinet Office , Attorney General ' s Office , and the Treasury , and advice provide to the Prime Minister relate to the China spy case . the purpose of this Opposition day debate and of our motion be very simple : transparency — that be all that we ask for . the basic fact be that two man be arrest on suspicion of have spy on hon . member of this House for China , and the Director of Public Prosecutions have acknowledge that this appear to have be a " gross breach of trust " against hon . member , yet the case against the two man collapse because , in the word of the senior Treasury counsel , Tom Little KC , the case be " effectively unsustainable " ; it be bring to " a crash halt " because the Government ' s own witness , the deputy National Security Adviser , refuse to provide the fatal piece of evidence . Mr Little have what he call a million - dollar question : be China an active threat to national security ? the deputy National Security Adviser repeatedly refuse to say yes . the Government effectively refuse to say what be patently apparent to anyone remotely alive to the fact of the case . this House have every reason to be tell why they refuse , and why , for example , the Prime Minister do not intervene to prevent the case collapse , when we know he be warn that it be unlikely to proceed . it be also report that the Home Secretary try to intervene . we do not call for the publication of this material lightly . we know it be an extraordinary measure to call for the Government to publish document relate to the formation of policy , but this be an extraordinary event . we have reach this point because the Government have be unable or unwilling to answer basic question about what they know when , and why they act as they do . they have hide behind civil servant and adviser , when it be Ministers who be suppose to make decision , and in do so , they have bring the action and decision of those adviser and official into the spotlight in a way that be most irregular . just as worryingly , there have be a persistent inaccuracy and inconsistency in the Government ' s statement , to the point where this House can no long trust a word of theirs . there be a number of example . first , on 13 October , the Security Minister deny in this House that the mega - mandarin meeting on 1 September , which be the subject of our motion , take place . last week , the Solicitor General admit that the meeting do take place . we now know that it be lead by the National Security Adviser and attend by the Cabinet Secretary , the permanent under - secretary at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , senior representation from the Home Office and the Attorney General ' s office , and the chief of MI5 , but we still do not know what be say there , what be agree or why the Government try to deny its existence . I be interested to see that the National Security Adviser be list as be involve in that meeting . the National Security Adviser be a political appointee — he be a special adviser — and that be usually the reason why the deputy National Security Adviser be put forward to take all the flak . if the nsa himself be participate in policy meeting about this matter , why do he not come forward ? why be he shelter behind a full - time official who be be hang out to dry ? my right hon . friend make a very pertinent point and be personally very experienced in such thing . it have be report that the National Security Adviser chair that meeting . that be to say that he be take a very active role in what be go on . that be why it be incredibly important that the Government come clean with we about what happen in that meeting , who attend and what be decide there . the National Security Adviser have spend a great deal of time visit various chinese entity before and after his appointment . one appointment that he do not appear very keen on take up be with the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy , which have request — quite legitimately , under the Osmotherly rule — that he appear before it , but Ministers appear to be block that . why do my hon . friend think that be ? my right hon . friend be right : the National Security Adviser show a great reluctance to attend . I understand that he have now agree to attend , although the report I read say that he be go to attend in camera . if that report be correct — the Minister have the opportunity to say it be not true — I be not sure that that be the good level of transparency that this House might expect . the second instance of inconsistency and inaccuracy that we draw attention to be from 7 October , when the Prime Minister tell journalist that what matter in this case be the designation of China as it have be in 2023 , when the offence be allege to have occur . however , last week , on 24 October , the Director of Public Prosecutions say that that be categorically not the case . he say : " the test be … positively not what the then Government be prepare to , or do , say in public about China … but rather whether China be — as a matter of fact — an active threat to national security . " this be a most important point , and one that be revisit yesterday . there be a very serious question about why the deputy National Security Adviser believe that he would " need to be in line with government policy at the time " , when the Crown Prosecution Service say that it do not need to know about policy , but about the fact . the Minister should explain to the House why the deputy National Security Adviser choose to ignore the CPS in this case . he should also tell we whether he think the deputy National Security Adviser comply with civil procedure rule 35 , which require he to assist the court and override any other obligation . perhaps the hon . Gentleman can clarify what be happen here . be the issue that the Government think that China be a threat to national security but do not declare it , or that they declare it but China be not a threat ? I be quite confused about the point he be make . the hon . Gentleman will have a perfectly good opportunity to question the people responsible in a few moment ' time . the point be that the Government have be unclear , inconsistent and inaccurate , and we be give they an opportunity to clear this up right now . I think the issue be that the Government in 2023 be not clear on whether or not China be a threat . do they clearly make the statement that it be a threat , or be China a threat but the Government fail to make that statement ? the previous Government be clear on a number of occasion that China be a threat , but if the hon . Gentleman have be listen to what I just say , he would have hear that the Director of Public Prosecutions say last week that it be categorically not a question of what the last Government say . now that I have the hon . Gentleman ' s attention , I will repeat for his benefit what the DPP say : that the question be " whether China be — as a matter of fact — an active threat to national security . " it be not a question of policy ; it be a matter of fact . [ interruption . ] I be not go to go through it a third time . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for set out the story so far , but give that there have be so many variation on the truth , can he come up with an explanation of why the Government can not alight on a single version of the truth of this matter ? I think there be basically two possible answer to my hon . friend ' s question . the first be that the Government can not tell their elbow from their posterior ; the second be that they do not want this House to know the truth . either way , on a matter as serious as this , it be incredibly important that we get to the truth . tonight ' s motion present the Government with an opportunity to be entirely transparent with we and set out the fact of the case as they be at the time — particularly on 1 October , when this all - important meeting take place . I just want to clear up one small point . when the CPS originally decide to prosecute back in 2024 , it be convince on the basis of the then - require evidence that be in front of it that in this case , China be responsible , and therefore it pose a threat . what change be the Roussev case , which redefine what the CPS need to be able to say in order to go ahead with any further prosecution . it be make clear that all that need to be do be to make the clear point that China be a persistent , continuous threat to the UK ' s strategic interest . the reason why the CPS need to make that statement have nothing to do with what have happen before ; it be all about what result from the Roussev case . that be the key . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct , and the Director of Public Prosecutions have be very clear and consistent on that point . will my hon . friend give way ? I will give way one more time , and then I will make some progress . the first senior Treasury counsel , Tom Little , yesterday say that he take the extraordinary step of have a direct discussion with the deputy National Security Adviser because he could not understand why what he say be a relatively straightforward piece of evidence — namely , that China be an active and ongoing threat — have not be provide . why do the Government not provide that commitment ? that be the million - dollar question . why be the Government not prepare to say something that be manifestly evidentially true to all and sundry ? the third example be that on 15 October , the Prime Minister say that the deputy National Security Adviser act entirely independently , without consultation with Ministers or special adviser , and without political involvement . however , the CPS have now make it clear that there be multiple discussion about what the dnsa would and would not say , start with one such discussion on 3 July 2025 . moreover , the dnsa ' s first witness statement be sight by " the then National Security Adviser and the … Cabinet Office Permanent Secretary " , and " send to the … Prime Minister through no . 10 private office " , include special adviser . be it therefore not incredible either way that the deputy nsa do not discuss the big spy case this century with his boss , the National Security Adviser , and be leave to his own device to provide the evidence ? I think we all find it difficult to believe that the deputy National Security Adviser be leave entirely to his own device . a fourth example be that on 20 October , the Minister for Security , who be in his place , tell the House : " final evidence go in in August , and I can give the hon . Gentleman an assurance that there be nothing the Prime Minister or any Minister could have do thereafter . " — [ Official Report , 20 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 640 . ] we now know that there be meeting between the CPS and the Government on 3 and 9 September to attempt to rescue the case . why do the Security Minister tell the House something that be not correct ? as far as I can remember , the Attorney General tell the House of Lords yesterday that 3 September be when he be inform that there be evidential difficulty with the case . the key point be that he have no power to intervene , because of the memorandum between the Attorney General ' s Office and the CPS . the Attorney General do not get involve in evidential sufficiency . minister do get involve ; it be their job to be involve . minister represent the Government . minister represent all of we . it be not good enough for the Government to say that they be entirely powerless in this instance — they be not . a fifth example be that yesterday , the Cabinet Secretary say that he do not believe that the chief of MI5 have describe China as a threat . on 16 October 2025 , Ken McCallum say : " do chinese state actor present a UK national security threat ? and the answer be , of course , yes they do every day . " how on earth do the Cabinet Secretary not know that ? this issue be of paramount importance . there be many other such example . the Government have an opportunity to be clear with we today , not just about the meeting and the dealing of the past six month , but on their position as it stand . will the Minister tell we what the material difference be between " a range of threat " and " an active security threat " ? the deputy National Security Adviser be keen to make that point yesterday . perhaps most importantly of all , do the Government believe that China be an active security threat ? if not , what would it take to cross that threshold ? it be time for the Government to publish all the detail so that we can see what really happen here . I know that the Government will protest their innocence and claim that it be all the fault of the CPS , or the last government , or the legislation , just as they have try to do for week , but such plea and protest be no good reason for they to refuse to publish the material we be request today . this House may have be spy upon . this House have a right to straight answer . this House have a right to see under the bonnet when the safety and privacy of its member may have be compromise . this House have a right to know the Government ' s real position and the Government ' s real agenda . if this government have nothing to hide , they should hide nothing from this House . rise — before I call the Minister , I remind member that this debate have to conclude by 7 pm . it be heavily subscribe , so I urge they to be as brief as possible . I will do my good , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) . first , I want to reinforce , not just as a Minister , but as a parliamentarian , the Government ' s deep regret about the collapse of the criminal case concern the two individual charge under the Official Secrets Act 1911 . everyone in the Government be hope that the trial would go ahead and plan on the basis that it would . as a reminder , follow the arrest of Christopher Cash and Christopher Berry in March 2023 as part of a counter - espionage operation , counter - terrorism police request that the deputy National Security Adviser act as a witness in the case . [ interruption . ] let I go through this , because it be important to the challenge make by the hon . Gentleman . the dnsa make it clear that he would provide evidence on the basis of the Government ' s position at the time of the offence , and that be crucial to the judgment that have be make in this case . the first statement be draft — will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , and then I will give way to the shadow Home Secretary . the first statement be draft between August and December 2023 . during that time , Counter Terrorism Policing be update on progress , include the information that the deputy National Security Adviser would not be able to call China an enemy , as that be not the position of the Government at the time of the offence . on that point , will the Minister give way ? okay , I will let the shadow Home Secretary intervene on that point . the Minister have say twice in the last minute that the question be the policy of the last government . let I take he to page 4 of the letter from the Director of Public Prosecutions , date Thursday of last week . in that letter , the DPP say — order . intervention should be short . the DPP say the opposite of what the Minister have say . he say that the issue be a question of fact , and not — categorically not — the policy of the last government . oh dear , oh dear , oh dear ! the right hon . Gentleman have just quote page 4 of the DPP ' s letter . let I quote page 5 to he : " the information that we require relate to the period between 31 December 2021 and 3 February 2023 . the position of the current Government be not relevant to the case . " I suggest that the shadow Home Secretary look at the next page . it be misleading . no , it be not misleading . will the right hon . Gentleman give I a moment ? it be the position at the relevant time . what be even bad , however , be that the word " enemy " be not the position at the time . it come out of the statement , and that happen under the previous Government , I be afraid . will the Minister give way ? I take intervention from the shadow Home Secretary , and I must now make some progress . before finalise his statement in December 2023 , the deputy National Security Adviser sight the then National Security Adviser and the then Cabinet Office permanent secretary . on 18 December — this be all under the previous Government — the permanent secretary come back with three comment for the dnsa to consider . the dnsa then finalise the statement , and his private office send a final version of the draft to the then Prime Minister through the no . 10 private office and no . 10 special adviser . once the statement be submit they be not share , and in April 2024 , formal charge be lay . that be the position under the previous Government . two supplementary witness statement from the dnsa be submit in February and August 2025 , follow request from Counter Terrorism police for further detail on the nature and extent of the threat to the UK from China . for the second statement , CTP specifically ask the dnsa to comment on whether China as a state , during the period from 31 December 2021 to 3 February 2023 , pose an active threat ; and whether that remain the case . for the third statement , CTP request that the dnsa provide further point of detail regard the UK Government ' s assessment of the nature and extent of the threat , with example . the dnsa faithfully and with full integrity — I note that the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster imply that somehow he be not compliant with part 35 of the civil procedure rule — set out the various threat pose by the chinese state in line with the UK Government ' s position at the material time , in order to try to support a successful prosecution . we then come , obviously , to the meeting on 1 September to which the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster refer , and with which I shall deal in a moment . I be fascinate by the opening speech of the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , in which he talk of the " clarity " of the last Government ' s position . " the government ' s approach to China be guide by three pillar : strengthen our national security protection , align and cooperate with our partner , and engage where it be consistent with our interest . " who say that ? the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster do in 2023 , and here he be now try to talk about the clarity of the position in 2023 . will the Minister give way ? not for a moment . on 1 September , the National Security Adviser convene a routine meeting to discuss the UK ' s relationship with China in the context of this case and several other upcoming moment . that be entirely what we would expect the National Security Adviser to do . we have learn that entirely separately , and entirely independent of Government , the CPS be deliberate on not offer evidence in this case . on 3 September , the DPP tell the Cabinet Secretary and the dnsa of his intention , subject to confirmation , not to put forward evidence , and unfortunately that decision be confirm on 9 September . I must say to the Opposition that that be a matter of regret . it be quite rightly an independent decision , but it be a matter of regret . on 15 September 2025 , the CPS officially confirm the decision to discontinue the case against Cash and Berry . I actually welcome scrutiny of that decision . that be why I welcome the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy ' s inquiry into espionage case and the Official Secrets Act and the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s investigation into how classified intelligence be use . since we last discuss the matter in this House , the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister , the Attorney General , the Cabinet Secretary , the National Security Adviser and the deputy National Security Adviser have all submit evidence to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy . yesterday , the Joint Committee hear evidence from the Director of Public Prosecutions and the First Treasury Counsel , and from the Cabinet Secretary and the deputy National Security Adviser at a later session . tomorrow , the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister and the Attorney General will give more evidence . a question have be raise about the National Security Adviser ; he will also be give evidence soon , and certainly before the end of the year . the Minister express deep regret that this case have not go to trial . I want to believe he on that , but the case do not go to trial . with the power of hindsight , if he be to go back and do this all again , what would the Minister have do differently to ensure that this case do go to trial ? I will tell the hon . Gentleman exactly what would have make a massive difference : if we could have update the Official Secrets Act far soon than 2023 . that would have make a material difference . this case be be prosecute under a 1911 Act . the National Security Act be pass in 2023 . if only the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have be in the Cabinet Office to be close to what be go on ; perhaps the legislation could have be change at an early stage and we would not be in this position . let I be clear with the House : the allegation of political interference in this case be absolutely baseless . the CPS decision to discontinue the case be independent of Government . indeed , the opposition should ask what the Director of Public Prosecutions himself say about that ; he reiterate it again yesterday when he give evidence , sit alongside Tom Little KC . can the Minister explain to the House , once and for all , how it be possible for a Government to believe that China be responsible for pose a wide range of threat , but be not a threat itself ? he would clear matter up , and allay suspicion that the Government be hold back for economic reason , if he would simply say that China be a threat to our national security . will he say that ? China pose a multiplicity of threat ; it pose a threat in term of espionage , in term of cyber , and in term of economic security . however , with the great respect to the right hon . Gentleman , the issue be whether it be consider a threat at the material time , and I can not go back and change that . I be listen carefully to what the Minister be say , but can we be inform how mps today be to be far protect from foreign intelligence service ? my hon . friend be 100 % correct , and that be a huge priority for the Government ; it be a very serious issue . as I say when I open this debate , it be not just about the position of the government ; I say as a parliamentarian that we in this place have to be protect from foreign interference . the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster ask about the meeting on 1 September . we hear about that yesterday from the Cabinet Secretary and the deputy National Security Adviser , who both attend that meeting : it be a discussion about the bilateral relationship between the UK and China in the context of the case . the Cabinet Secretary make it clear yesterday that the meeting be entirely appropriate ; no discussion of evidence take place , and everyone involve be participate on the assumption that the case be go to go ahead . it be only on 3 September — as be confirm by he in his evidence to the JCNSS yesterday — that the Director of Public Prosecutions inform the Cabinet Secretary and the dnsa of his intention , subject to confirmation , that the CPS would not be put forward evidence at trial . the Attorney General be inform on the same day . it be important that I finish this point , because I have be challenge on the chronology and I be only too delighted to enlighten the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . the DPP confirm to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy that the position be agree after a period of internal decision making within the CPS in the run - up to the meeting on 3 September . at that meeting , the DPP make it clear that the fact must not be brief out far , with the exception of inform the nsa and the permanent secretary at the fcdo . the Cabinet Secretary and the dnsa therefore do not inform anyone else until shortly before the case become public . on 9 September , the CPS confirm the decision to offer no evidence to the dnsa . that be the chronology . let I now directly address what the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster say , because I be conscious of the time . there be already an established mechanism for Parliament to address this issue . the Government be fully co - operate with the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy inquiry and the ISC , and will provide evidence and appear before the Committee in the usual way . will the Minister give way ? in one moment . in the motion , the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster be seek a wide range of document . he be a Cabinet Office Minister himself , and he know the sensitivity of those document . he know the legal professional privilege — will the Minister give way ? I will give the hon . gentleman one more chance before I conclude . I say to he that highly classified material be subject to legal professional privilege and include advice to the Prime Minister , which successive government have not release to the public . why ? because it be in our interest to protect such material . the hon . Gentleman know that in his heart of heart . I have always admire the shine on the Minister ' s brass neck , and never so much as at this moment . I remember the Brexit debate , when he and many of the other gentleman and lady on the Labour Benches override legal privilege and ask for classify document week after week . member of this House may have be spy on , and the Government have a duty to be transparent . they can not hide behind anything , give that they have previously ask for similar document . make they available ! I be look at the hon . Gentleman and remember the debate we have . let I tell he the difference between what I be do then and what be happen now . first , I be apply at the time , via a Humble Address mechanism , for a single document . by the way , his rather shambolic motion , which seem to be a fishing expedition , be totally imprecise . secondly , that be not security material at this level , which be in our national interest . you didn ' t know that ! yes , I do . let I emphasise that I support parliamentary scrutiny . I support and welcome the ongoing process with the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy . I support the Government ' s continue to engage with the ISC . what we will not do , though , be accede to the hon . Gentleman ' s demand . he know in his heart of heart that it would be totally inappropriate for the long list of material he have stick in the motion to be put in the public domain . ask for open publication be completely different from the appropriate parliamentary scrutiny which , quite rightly , will go on . let I conclude by say this . the Government and I be gravely disappoint that the trial do not proceed . in response to the point that be put to I by the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , the dnsa ' s evidence articulate clearly the range of threat that China pose to the UK ' s national security and , indeed , our economic security at the material time . in the light of the threat that have be identify — I agree with the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster — this be a very grave matter . the Government be resolute in our determination to work across all party and in partnership with the parliamentary security authority , as be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , to ensure that espionage and interference by China or any other country be not successful in the UK . rise — order . we have just 90 minute , and over 20 colleague wish to contribute . the last speech be definitely not short . hopefully , the liberal Democrat spokesperson can show we how it be do . we congratulate the Conservatives on bring forward this debate . give recent news headline about their own weakness on this issue , do so be what Sir Humphrey would describe as a " courageous decision " . as the third party spokesperson , I feel obliged to play the role of a marriage counsellor . it be my duty to urge both side — the Government and the official Opposition — to concede that they have make mistake and to bring they together in the hope of find common ground . the Government and the official opposition truly have more common ground on this issue than they would like to admit . the common ground be clear in the dnsa ' s evidence statement , and it have become clear as this sorry saga have drag on . it become clear still in yesterday ' s Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy that there be barely a cigarette paper between the position of the Conservative party when it be in government and the Labour Government today . the conservative party will not admit that , because all it want to do be pretend that the Government be entirely to blame , which be a laudable aim for any Opposition party . the Labour party can not admit it , because it can not publicly concede that its position on a matter central to our national security interest be the same as that of the Conservative Government they replace last summer . it fall to we Liberal Democrats to speak the uncomfortable part of the truth and tell it like it be , because nobody else be willing or able to do so . while some of their brave Back Benchers speak out when the Conservatives be in government , the machinery of the Government be keen to take an approach on China that be far from hawkish . at the heart of this issue be the often unspeak suggestion that we must take a nuanced position on China because our economy be now vulnerable to international threat . the truth be that Conservatives and their ally align to the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) cut we adrift from the EU , and they have leave Britain more expose to economic pressure from hostile state than we should be . we find ourselves in a position where the Government can not bring themselves to describe as a national security threat a nation whose spy hack the datum of 40 million british voter hold by the Electoral Commission . the Government can not bring themselves to describe as a national security threat a nation that have agree a " no limit " partnership with Putin , despite Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . just 10 day ago , Beijing be publicly bully the government into grant permission for the new chinese embassy at Tower Bridge , warn of " consequence " if the Government do not approve the plan . be our weak international trading position , cause by the disastrous Brexit give to we by Conservative and Reform Members , influence the Government ' s decision making on the new embassy ? it would seem foolish to argue otherwise . I would draw a comparison between that and the Government ' s position on Russia , which have be list on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme . give the " no limit " relationship between Beijing and Moscow , it be odd that Russia be list while China be not . if the Government really want to strengthen the case for prosecution , perhaps place China on the enhance tier would have aid the prosecution , even absent the word " enemy " . the fact that the word " enemy " appear on the original draft witness statement but be later remove again raise concern about what be happen during the tenure of the previous Conservative Government . the public deserve clear answer not just from those on the Government Front Bench , but from those on the official Opposition ' s Front Bench . do the dnsa meet Ministers between the initial draft and the final version of the witness statement ? this House owe a debt of gratitude to the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) and the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , both of whom have show a great deal of bravery in the very good tradition of british public service . the dnsa ' s witness statement reference " backchannel " use to dissuade those two member from criticise Confucius institute in the UK . the Security Minister assure I that he be happy to speak with the member in question last week about this very point . have that meeting now take place , and will the Minister let we know from the Dispatch Box what this Government ' s understanding of the word " backchannel " be in that context ? do the word " backchannel " refer to the previous Government ' s whip , official or other ? the public deserve to know which element of the british state be attempt to prevent brave mps from ask question . if the Minister can not let we know , perhaps someone on the Conservative Front Bench or anywhere else on the official Opposition Benches could clarify that for the House . finally , I turn to the involvement of the CPS in the collapse of this trial . the Government be adamant that the failure to designate China as an " enemy " be central to the failure to prosecute . I have already address the question of how that word be remove from the initial witness statement during the tenure of the previous Government , but I want to draw the House ' s attention to the Roussev case , which be reference early , that be be prosecute at the same time . in that instance , the judge state that " any state which presently pose an active threat to the UK ' s national security can properly be describe as ' an enemy ' in ordinary language . " the outcome of that case be the conviction of six bulgarian national last July for operate as part of a russian espionage network . the CPS have serious question to answer about why the China case fall apart when the term " enemy " be not an issue for the Roussev case as recently as last July . transparency and independence in national security decision be an essential part of maintain public trust . this case have throw that trust into serious jeopardy at a time when the embassy planning application be already undermine the nation ' s confidence in the Government ' s approach to relation with China . neither the Government nor the official Opposition have provide clarity . the public could be forgive for think that both side be duck responsibility . the Liberal Democrats believe that we need a statutory public inquiry to get to the bottom of what go wrong and how influence over China policy cause the collapse of this case . I call John Slinger , who I believe have a very considerate three - minute speech . I will do my good , Madam Deputy Speaker . conservative Members be be nothing short of opportunistic and be play political game with our national security . it be , of course , their job and their right to oppose what the Government be do , but on issue of national security I would have think there could be more appreciation of the national interest and the nuance involve . in my speech I be go to do some myth - bust — quite a useful thing to do in this age of misinformation , disinformation and hyperbolic chest - thumping . what we be see be a somewhat phoney , but very definitely opportunistic , brand of national security patriotism . frankly , if ever over - inflate balloon of confected outrage need to be burst , it be today . so , I will bust two myth and state two truism . Myth no . 1 : a narrative that the Tories try to push be that Labour prioritise a strategic relationship with communist China . however , the Government fully recognise that China pose a series of threat to UK national security , from cyber - attack to foreign interference and espionage target our democratic institution . the true fault lie with the previous Government . the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , the then Foreign Secretary , say in April 2023 that sum up China in one word as a " threat " be " impossible , impractical and — most importantly — unwise " . the Leader of the Opposition , while serve in the Cabinet , also say : " we certainly should not be describe China as a foe " . now that this trial have collapse , they be accuse this government of interfere , when it be their carefully word Government policy that do not define China as an " enemy " — and there be nothing that present minister can do to change that . I would urge the hon . Gentleman not to misquote the two right hon . member that he have just quote . even if the quote that he give be whole and full — which they be not — the DPP have categorically say that it be not about policy ; it be about whether China be an actual threat at the time . be the DPP right , or do the hon . Gentleman have some other information ? I do not have any other information on that point , but I do believe that Conservative Members ought to look in the mirror and acknowledge the decision take by the previous Government . let I turn to myth no . 2 — on that point , it be really important to clarify why such tight definition be important in the first place . that be because the case be bring under a 1911 Act of Parliament , not a modern , up - to - date Act of Parliament . be that not why we be in this situation ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . it be absolutely , deeply regrettable that the conservative party , when in government , do not reform legislation sufficiently well . Myth no . 2 , another myth that the Tories will continue to spread , be that the Labour Government interfere with the delivering of evidence . the shadow Home Secretary have make the accusation that " the government choose to deliberately submit inadequate evidence that lead to two allege spy get off scot - free . " this accusation simply have no real substance , as the Prime Minister have confirm that no Labour Ministers or special adviser be involve with the provision of evidence for this case . I shall move on to what I believe all member across this House know to be true — truism no . 1 . it be dangerous to undermine public confidence in the Government on matter of national security for party political advantage . Truism no . 2 be the more important one . it be perfectly possible to hold two thought in your mind at the same time : one be that China be clearly a strategic rival to the UK in certain area , and another be that it be a vital partner , whether on the Security Council , in tackle global challenge or , of course , for trade and investment . I will conclude , take the advice of Madam Deputy Speaker , by say that the conservative really do need to look in the mirror on this issue . this government be act with integrity . this have be an interesting experience , almost revisit ancient time with the right hon . member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) lead for the Government on this debate . while I have a great deal of sympathy with his position , I can not sympathise with his rather bland , anodyne account of the event to date . what be clear , and it be an apophthegm often imbibe with one ' s mother ' s milk , be that if it walk like a duck , quack like a duck , sound like a duck , look like a duck , it be almost certainly a duck . the problem in this case be that the Government be never prepared to describe that animal as a duck . they must have know from a very early period ; indeed , the first senior Treasury counsel say yesterday that , even in August , he have make the point abundantly plain to the Government that unless they reconsider their approach and describe the blasted animal as a duck , the case would go down the pan . there be nothing to prevent the Government , through their expert witness , from say , " in our view , China be a national security threat in 2021 " — nothing at all to prevent that . will the right hon . and learn Member give way ? will the right hon . and learn Member give way ? no , I will not — too short of time . there be nothing to prevent that because it be a question of fact . the fact be that the Government be not prepared to change their approach . it be a perfectly legitimate point for the right hon . member for Torfaen to say to I , " back in 2021 , the policy of the Government be not to describe China as an enemy , " but at that time , we have not have the spying , the intimidation , and the direct targeting of this institution and the democratic assembly of our people that we have now see by 2025 . thing have move on , and it be incumbent upon the Government to reconsider their approach , which be that they would not describe a duck as a duck . the witness be prepared to say , " it have web foot , it swim , it quack , it have a bill — but we be not prepared to call it a duck . " be you tell I , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the right hon . Gentleman can look this House in the eye and say that nobody raise this problem inside no . 10 and say , " we have a policy problem . it be a roadblock to this case . what be we go to do about it ? " ? be he say that that be never discuss with the National Security Adviser , that the dnsa never raise that with any relevant Minister ? the Attorney General , when he meet on 3 September , say , " well , I couldn ' t intervene on matter of sufficiency of evidence . " that be perfectly true ; he can not intervene , but he could challenge . he could say , " what do you need ? be there anything I can do by way of intercession with ministry to ensure that you get the evidence that you require ? " but nothing be say . nothing be say on 3 September because " nothing " be the policy of the Government . it be to wait while this case slide down the slope straight into the pan where no doubt many of the , not inaptly name , mandarin of Whitehall be perfectly content to see it slide . there be extraordinary cheek in the right hon . Gentleman , who come to this House four or five year ago with his Humble Address when he ask for legal advice — advice on the most sensitive negotiating matter that this country be engage in with the Berlaymont — to be disclose for all to see , now say that we should not see the truth of what in reality the Government be say and do at the time . if it look like a duck , quack like a duck , walk like a duck , it be almost certainly a duck , and when I apply it to what the right hon . Gentleman say , it be almost certainly a complete crock of old — Duck ! duck . follow that , Paul Waugh . I be tell that you have four minute . first , I want to put on the record my anger and frustration , share by many in this House , at the collapse of this case , particularly the dropping of the spy charge against Christopher Cash and Christopher Berry and the result collapse of their trial , which have be due to go ahead this very month . secondly , I welcome Mr Speaker ' s guidance on how to improve Members ' security . member must not forget that we have a personal responsibility too to protect ourselves , our fellow member and our staff from such foreign interference , which include in our hiring practice and vetting of staff who can work in this building , which have not be often mention in this debate . however , I want mainly to warn of the danger of some of the rhetoric that have be use to date in this case . of course , it be the job of his Majesty ' s opposition to probe , challenge and scrutinise the Government , yet what have happen in this case go way beyond that and risk harm we all , just as spy on our Parliament harm we all . I be talk about the repeat unsubstantiated and scurrilous suggestion that any Minister or special adviser in this government interfere or intervene in the independent decision making of the CPS . in an article in the Times on 15 October , the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , accuse the Government of deliberately choose to collapse the case : " it be clear the government choose to deliberately submit inadequate evidence that lead to two allege spy get off scot - free . " he go on : " they must now also explain who be guide Matt Collins in prepare this evidence . " that be an appalling accusation to make with zero evidence and an insult to the professional integrity of the deputy National Security Adviser , and I hope the shadow Home Secretary withdraw it . sadly , he be not alone . on 13 October , the Leader of the Opposition tell the BBC : " this look like a deliberate decision to collapse the case and curry favour with the regime in China . " she go on to say that she suspect that Ministers " have decide that close economic tie with China be more important than due process and our national security . " just look at those word : " look like " and " suspect " . there be not a shred of evidence , only insinuation . that be not the language of a Prime Minister in wait . as the Security Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , have make clear , it be an entirely independent decision by the CPS to discontinue the case , and the CPS have confirm that it come under no outside pressure to do so . as for the whitehall meeting on 1 September reference by the Opposition in their motion , crucially , Mr Collins say yesterday that there have be " at least four lawyer in the room who ensure that there be no discussion about the evidence " in the case . this House have maintain a proud cross - party consensus on Ukraine , help President Zelensky to stand up to Putin — a consensus that be , sadly , not help at time by Reform , whose Putin apologist be indeed Moscow ' s useful idiot of the 21st century . we need to maintain a similar cross - party consensus in fight against chinese threat . the hon . Gentleman be make a good case about cross - party consideration of the threat China pose . I want to ask a very simple question , which I have ask in this place before : do he think that China should be on the foreign influence registration scheme , as Russia be — yes or no ? that be a matter for minister to decide ; I be not privy to all the information that would be require to make that determination . it be vital for our own national security and be in our national interest that we maintain a similar consensus as we have on Ukraine on the threat , challenge and opportunity pose by China . we should all stand firm in this House on issue of national security and human right and on the threat China pose clearly to our economy , our industrial secret , our intellectual property , our democracy and , yes , our cyber - space . we should also recognise that it be important that the UK engage with China where it be in our hard - head national interest — and mutual interest — to do so , from climate change to global health and trade . that be why the Opposition in government have a policy of protect , align and engage — there be that word " engage " again . how different be that really from our own compete , challenge and co - operate ? I know that this place often thrive on political knockabout , with party try to seize on opponent ' perceive weakness , but in accuse one ' s political opponent of somehow be enemy of the people and plot non - existent cover - up , the only beneficiary be our real enemy abroad . rise — Order . I come to Sir Iain Duncan Smith , after which Back - Bench Members will have a speak limit of four minute . it be a particular pleasure that you should be in the Chair for this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , because like I and the other , some of whom have be name , you be sanction by a brutal Chinese Government . I think it be excellent that you be here to invigilate this debate and to keep we on track — forgive I if I go over . [ laughter . ] I be not go to take the blandishment of the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) who tell we to look in the mirror . I stop look in the mirror a long , long time ago . in fact , when I be elect in 1992 I be tell by a journalist at the Express that I could look in the mirror and see my career behind I . I feel like I have be walk backwards ever since . can I just say , I think the whole principle that underlie all this be the Government ' s behaviour over this decision ? I will come to the decision in a second , but I want to address how the Government deal with the decision — and how they have publicly deal with it , which be really rather peculiar . it have be almost impossible throughout this to drag information out of the Government about why the dnsa take the decision he take , where the Government be in this and when meeting take place . denial slide towards acceptance that date be in fact as they stand . as I understand it , it be even exclaim by the Prime Minister that the Sunday Times be lie when it raise the idea of there be a meeting on 1 September contain all the various individual , include the dnsa . it have be a sort of meticulous nonsense . Dodge , duck , dive , dip , and dodge — the five Ds of dodgeball , or in this case the five Ds of dodge the spy case . get to the truth of this have be painful , and if it be painful for the Government , they have only themselves to blame . have they come out straightaway at the beginning and be clear about all this , instead of hide behind the dnsa , they might have find it easy . I find ridiculous the position that the dnsa state yesterday — that he be bind to reflect the position of the Government . the dnsa be not bind to reflect the position of the Government . he be ask by the DPP — and therefore bind to respond to the DPP — whether or not he say that China be an active security threat . what I do not understand be how the then dnsa , both at the time and again when give evidence yesterday , be able to say that China pose a range of threat — just as the Minister say — on different area all across the board , from sanction right the way through to espionage . I do not understand the difference between pose a series of significant threat to our national security in different area across the board and be a threat to our national security . it be impossible to even conceive that we could define this so narrowly that we be unable to come out with the very simple statement : " they pose a threat to our national security . " from my standpoint , I face a threat . I have be chase and regularly follow by wolf warrior , which be low - level intelligence operative of China . they have impersonate I abroad and spread lie about what I have say , and those of we who have be sanction have be spy on . I know what a threat look like . it look like that . it be not a duck ; it be a threat . there be no reason why any self - respect Government could not have say that . the dnsa should have say that straight off — not go out and tell we that the police ask he to introduce what have be in the manifesto of the Labour party in the last election and then say that he know nothing at all about it previously but have to put this in context . he be not ask to put it in context . the DSNA be ask to state clearly , from what he see and the evidence he have take , whether China pose an active security threat . at the nub of this be another particularly important point . the 1 September meeting be critical in all this , because we have be give assurance throughout this — by the Prime Minister , for example , at Prime Minister ' s question on 15 October . he say : " there be no further submission of evidence , one way or the other , after any discussion in September . " — [ Official Report , 15 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 368 . ] yet we know that now not to be the case . why be the Prime Minister make such a fundamental statement at Prime Minister ' s question try to shut this down ? do nobody bother to tell he that this have go to a meeting ? by the way , we be tell that at no stage be the National Security Adviser or any other appoint individual at any meeting with or in contact with the dnsa throughout the submission of evidence . that be utterly untrue . we know that the dnsa be at the meeting chair by the National Security Adviser on 1 September . what do they discuss ? be it football score or what be right in front of they there and then : the still - unfinished business of whether or not the dnsa be go to comply with the DPP ' s requirement for a very clear statement ? it be that bit of subterfuge , with dipping and dodge throughout , that be really quite peculiar . I have respect for the Minister . when he get to his foot , can we not have this ridiculous game of " you do this " and " you say that " ? I would simply like he to recognise that China pose a national security threat . let we deal with that threat and take clear action , and not play game with terminological inexactitude about what happen at what meeting . we now know that the dnsa meet all those character — we do not know who they be — so the minute of the meeting should be release . if the Government will not release they to Parliament , they can do it in camera to the Intelligence and Security Committee . they should do it to clear the record ; I recommend that they do . People like I , the Chairman of Ways and Means and other have suffer attack from this brutal regime , which have massacre people in China and commit genocide . surely now be the time to make our position clear . respect for democracy be fundamental to our british value , and to who we be as a country , but the world be increasingly an unstable place , and we can no long be complacent about the multiple threat that our democratic norm and value face . threat be come from China , as we see from this espionage case , but also from other malign state , such as Russia and Iran . it be the job of all of we in the House to stand up to those threat and work in the interest of national security . when I hold a roundtable with my local Hong Kong community early this year to discuss propose change to immigration , I be sadden , but unfortunately not surprised , to hear that many member of the community choose not to attend a meeting with their local MP because they be worried about the long arm of the chinese state , and the repercussion of the Hong Kong national security law on they and their family . transnational repression be be use by hostile state to directly prosecute those whom they see as their enemy overseas , but it also have a wide , chilling effect , leave whole community afraid to engage with their basic democratic right . meanwhile , I grow increasingly concerned about the influence of foreign actor on misinformation and disinformation online . in recent month , I have see how anonymous post on local social medium group in my community can have a pervasive effect on community cohesion and our democracy . social medium company need to step up and do more on that . I be not suggest that every anonymous social medium post be from a russian bot , but we all know that Russia and other state be use social medium against we . there have be direct attack on our democracy , too , such as those from these chinese spy . last month , Reform UK ' s former leader in Wales , Nathan Gill , plead guilty to eight count of bribery ; he be bribe to make statement in favour of Russia while he be a Member of the European Parliament . I turn to the China spy case . part of the reason why the case do not proceed to trial and the two gentleman could not be prosecute be prevarication over reform the Official Secrets Act . the Act be introduce in 1911 — it predate the first world war — and despite unanimous recognition for at least eight year that it be completely out of date and not fit for purpose , the previous Government fail to act to fix the hole in our national security law and leave our country ill defend . of course , the previous Government do subsequently introduce new legislation . however , under the 1911 Act , if the Government have be prepare to state that China be a threat , the case could have go forward and would likely have be win . the hon . member can not blame that Act . the case collapse because under that Act neither Government provide enough evidence . the witness statement issue by the previous Government be a matter of record , and they do not state anywhere unequivocally that China be a threat . in fact , multiple Opposition Members have say on multiple occasion that it would not be possible to describe China unilaterally as a threat . that be a matter of record . in 2023 — we be go back a couple of year — Parliament ' s Intelligence and Security Committee report on China warn " that China ' s view of an ideal future … would be antithetical to the UK ' s interest " . in its conclusion , China be detail 11 time as a " threat " , an " acute threat " or a " grave threat " . why can the UK Government today , base on a report from more than two year ago , not describe China as a threat ? the Minister quite clearly set out the range of threat pose by China . I be clear that China pose a threat . I also think that we have to be mature enough in this Chamber to accept that the way we deal with the second - large economy in the world have to be to recognise the threat it pose to our democracy and our national security , but also all the way in which we have to work with it . I stand for election on a manifesto that commit to our co - operate with China where we can , challenge they where we must , and compete with they where we need to . I genuinely think that be a mature way of deal with a state that do not share our value , and that pose a great threat to our democracy and to the way that citizen and resident of this country operate within a democracy , but that be also the second - large economy in the world . as the former director of MI6 say on the " Today " show on the BBC this morning , " we need to learn to walk and chew gum at the same time . " we need a mature acceptance of the risk that China pose , and that mean recognise that we can not just walk off the pitch and not deal with the second - large economy in the world . it be infantile and not realistic to suggest otherwise . if the new Act have be in place soon , it be possible that these man could have be prosecute successfully under it . I therefore have a simple question for Conservative Front Benchers , and they need to be clear on this point : why do they wait so long to replace a vital piece of security legislation , and make sure that we have the appropriate tool to keep this country safe ? I be happy to take intervention on that point . Tony Blair be Prime Minister for a very long time . do he amend the legislation ? as have already be set out , the threat from China have evolve over time . I would have love it if the previous Labour Government have amend the Act , but it be the conservative party that hold a consultation , and then sit on the result for eight year and do nothing . order . I call Mark Pritchard . in its inquiry on China from July 2023 , the Intelligence and Security Committee , of which I be a member at the time , conclude that China be a threat . the Committee take evidence not from junior security official , but from the chief of the Secret Intelligence Service , MI6 , the director general of the Security Service and the director of GCHQ , the chief of Defence Intelligence and — this be an important " and " — all the deputy National Security Advisers at the time . that be already public ; they report to the Committee . that report be clear and unambiguous in call out China as a national security threat to UK interest . it be also crystal clear , take the report as a whole , that China ' s threat be both live and active . the report be from July 2023 , and the alleged offence take place , apparently , from December ' 21 to February ' 23 . I be aware that the refresh of the integrated review of ' 21 be in March ' 23 . however , the Committee ' s inquiry start take evidence from those senior official from November 2017 to a similar time in 2019 , and then the subsequent Committee carry on its work . senior national security official be give evidence to the ISC about China be a national security threat well before the offence happen in this place . be that an assertion of fact from the Committee ' s report ? if we have the director of all the intelligence agency suggest that China be a threat , it do not get much well than that . we have great deputy national security adviser , but their line manager — their director , their boss — be also clearly state that China be a national security threat . in fact , the word " threat " be mention 284 time in that 207 - page report . the key word in this whole episode involve the deputy National Security Adviser — that is , the dnsa for intelligence , defence and security , not the other two remain dnsa , unless the Minister want to correct I — be " active " . the question be whether China be an active threat , as underscore by the testimony to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy yesterday . the evidence in the ISC ' s report would suggest that China have be know to be an active threat for some time . I have mention the various review . indeed , in his own witness statement , the DSNA refer to China conduct " large - scale espionage operation " . again , this be not a historical reference or a past - tense reference ; it be clearly refer to the here - and - now operation take place today . there be clearly an active threat , not just a general or undetermined threat . China be an active threat be also underscore by the director general of the Security Service ' s recent speech , in which he refer to China ' s " cyber - espionage … clandestine technology transfer … interference in UK public life " and " harassment and intimidation of opponent " . once more , these threat be not just historical ; they be current and active , happen in the UK right now . they have not stop . they be increase . they continue . I be listen carefully to my right hon . friend ' s excellent speech . do he see , in the testimony yesterday , the intervention in which Sir Chris Wormald suddenly say that he do not believe that Ken McCallum , the chief of MI5 , have describe China as a threat ? he intervene on the dnsa to make that point . that be fundamentally untrue , be it not ? my right hon . friend make a good point . I think hon . member will take their own view on who they think be the expert on national security . I think it will be Sir Ken McCallum , who be a long - serve and distinguished member of the UK intelligence community . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , I will not , because I will not get another minute , and I want to make some progress and allow other colleague to speak . the director general ' s speech be explicit . the Security Service be very clear - eyed about the national security threat from China , even though Ministers might be tempt , arguably , to recalibrate and put economic interest over the UK ' s national security interest . I wonder whether there might be other factor at work here , too , include underlie vested interest and compete interest between different part of Government , and even some conflict personality . we do not have time to go into that today . today ' s debate be rightly focus on whether politic get in the way of national security . a wide question might be why a political adviser be appoint to the role of National Security Adviser in the first place , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say . perhaps there be something to see here . the current National Security Adviser have wide and vast experience , and I pay tribute to he for his important role in the Northern Ireland peace process and other peace - broker exercise he have do around the world . there be absolutely no doubt that he be a long - stand , distinguish civil servant , but the fact that an outsider , rather than insider , become the National Security Adviser might be an issue as well . some may see that as a strength , but today ' s proceeding might suggest that it could be a weakness in this case . there be a question mark about that , of course . back to China . the conclusion and recommendation of the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s inquiry on China talk about proper oversight . we need to ensure that , for example , the investment security unit have proper oversight by the ISC , because if there be ever a place where it be likely that politic would conflict with the economic interest of this country , it be that unit . that be absolutely critical . when politic get too close to professional , cool , calm intelligence judgment , the situation will always be fraught with danger , as this country witness with the Iraq war . in conclusion , when — Order . I call Gareth Snell . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) touch on several relevant point . there be a time in this House when a Member come under attack and find themselves on the wrong end of something be a moment of unification for we , and we would come together to find a way forward collectively . it should be of great regret to we all that follow the event that happen to the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) and the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , we be throw political rock at one another about meeting that may or may not have happen over the last six or seven year . I do not know the hon . Lady , but I know the right hon . gentleman . he be a gentleman of the utmost standing and principle , and I can not imagine the horror that he have be through and how much they have disrupt his life . we should keep that at the forefront of our mind in this debate . we have have a complex relationship with China for the past decade . I can not be the only one who be old enough to remember the picture of the President of China pull pint in the Plough with the former Prime Minister , who be subsequently the Foreign Secretary when some of what we be talk about be happen . we have not have a consistent approach to China publicly . I say " publicly " , because the evidence we have hear from various Opposition Members this evening make it quite clear that official in the last Government be name China as a threat . they be use that terminology , but unfortunately the political face of that Administration be not . I will not get into the right and wrong of that , but it be clear that there have be inconsistency in the language apply to China throughout this period . if I be more legally minded , I would say that that may have lead to the current situation , in which the CPS be say one thing and the dnsa be say something else , and we be get the interpretation of an illustrious former Attorney General , the right hon . and learn Member for Torridge and Tavistock ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) . by the way , I remember the debate in November 2017 when we argue for a Humble Address . many conservative Members say that it be a terrible idea to publish Government information , and it could never be do because it would undermine that information . they say that in the future , they might ask for such information and we would say no , and we be clearly at that point today . we all invest a lot of time and energy into this job , and into our staff . we be at the mercy of the vetting service to make sure that the staff who work for we be look into properly . we just do not know , for instance , whether operative from other hostile state be active in staffing unit . we can pretend we do , but we honestly do not . I hope we will get some answer from the Minister about how we have get to this point , but what I want to understand be how will we make sure that the same thing do not happen again . how will we get to a point , in this Parliament , where we can be sure that every Member of Parliament — regardless of which political party they come from , the position they hold , their standing or their length of service — be free from such political interference , oversight and spying ? how can we ensure that no more member be sanction , as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green be ? he have talk eloquently to the House on numerous occasion about the disruption to his life . for we to do our job properly , we must have confidence in the people around we and the advice we receive from official , and we have to be certain that the process that be in place to keep we safe be do their job . ultimately , we all come here to do a job , and to do it well . we be only human , and we ought to hold at the forefront of our mind the fact that mistake have be make — I think we would all agree on that ; I do not think anyone can say , hand on heart , that everything have go perfectly up to this point — but the key thing be how we learn from that and prevent it from happen again . that , Madam Deputy Speaker , be where I will draw my remark to a conclusion . I listen carefully to the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , and I think he hit the nail on the head . I have be think throughout the debate that this be not just about the failure of the prosecution , but about our approach to China — not just this year , last year or during this government ; this have go on for year and year . the sanction be impose in March 2021 , which be four and a half year ago . interestingly , neither the Government of the day nor the official opposition demand sanction ; it be the Speakers of the House of Commons and the House of Lords who respond by ban the chinese ambassador from enter . it have be report that at the time , the Government attempt to overturn that decision . the key point , as the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central have say , be crystal clear : all of we need to work on our line and we need cast - iron assurance that , no matter where we have be in the past , go forward we will be very clear about the real threat that China pose . China ' s history tell we that already : six decade of military occupation in Tibet ; the mass detention , re - education and force sterilisation of the uyghur population ; we have witness democracy come under attack in Hong Kong time and again ; and there be the ever - present threat against Taiwan . China run a global influence operation and it have be acknowledge in this House that the united front have penetrate every sector of the United Kingdom ' s economy . we have be well warn . as I say early , and as have be repeat many time , in 2023 the Intelligence and Security Committee say that China be a " threat " , an " acute threat " and a " grave threat " . in 2022 , the head of MI5 , Ken McCallum , say that the chinese threat " might feel abstract . but it ' s real and it ' s press . we need to talk about it . we need to act . " that be what we have fail to do until now . if one of the key hinderance to the prosecution appear to be the concern that the Government would not be able to convince the jury that China be an enemy , how would the Minister describe a state that conduct long - term , large - scale espionage operation , include recruit those who work in Parliament , and that pose a serious national security threat on these island ? why have it take the failure of this case for the Government to definitively state that China be a threat ? why have this position come as a response to an embarrassing political crisis ? the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent and unanswerable case , but the trouble be that even in the circumstance of this case , the Government have not say that China be a threat . they keep say that it pose a range of serious threat , but they keep baulk at say that it be a threat . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman have no hesitation in say that China be a threat , and he should challenge the Government to do likewise . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . China be a real and serious threat . I say that not just as an individual who happen to chair the all - party parliamentary group on Tibet , who be anxious about be spy on too , but on behalf of my party and of colleague across the House who feel the real and present threat not only to ourselves but to our constituent . why have this position come as a response to an embarrassing political crisis , rather than as the principle position and proactive strategy for which so many of we have be call for so many year ? why be it , as Luke de Pulford , executive director of the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China , put it that " the Chinese Communist Party ' s progress towards the ' Great Rejuvenation of the chinese Nation ' … have meet formidable resistance , not from government , but little ole ' constituency MPs . " ? that be a really good question to consider . the Government and the opposition will squabble over who meet with whom when , about who say what when , and about who they can blame to squeeze as much political one - upmanship from this case as possible , but the Chinese Communist party must be laugh at this House right now , as we ping - pong when it be clear that we need national security to be take very seriously and we need to see China place on the foreign influence registration scheme . public trust and the confidence of international ally be waver , and the ongoing threat to our national security , democratic institution and economic infrastructure remain . to conclude , it be time to end the inertia , caution and self - censorship from Whitehall and from Government when it come to China , and to acknowledge , address and act on the threat that we continuously face . I put on record my anger at the collapse of the case . colleague have talk about the particular of the case , so I will use the short time that I have available to broaden the lens and look again at the foundation of our security . when the conservative party bring Opposition day debate to the House , I attend because I be interested to hear the development of think in the party as it seek to become a future government . I also think about the party ' s record in government and where it be go . I will make two point that I think the opposition will disagree with , but I hope some member will agree with my third point . first , any Government , from whichever party , have a duty to invest in the institution , infrastructure , capability and knowledge that enable our long - term advantage and security . those be not build in five minute , but they can be build in 14 year . it be my view that in the 14 year that the Conservatives be in power , they give insufficient regard to build those thing that can shore up our security . secondly , in case where the Conservative Government do bother to build or pursue infrastructure , they open the door to chinese firm . while the conservative leadership pretend to know what they think about China now , in truth they do not know what to think about China when they be in office , and that be an important reality to stare at . when it come to Huawei and 5 g , the Conservatives be in , then they be out . when it come to nuclear , the Conservatives be in , then they be out . we be still unpack George Osborne ' s mistake on that front . that contrast sharply with the position of the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . I rediscover his 2020 Hudson Institute speech , and I think it be a very good insight into the situation at that time . look back at it five year on , it have considerable foresight on what have occur . I be very sorry and sadden that he have experience what he have at the hand of the chinese leadership — other colleague have experience the same — but he be in a minority in his party in stand up on these issue . I do not believe that the conservative leadership have be as clear in their thinking or as forceful in their condemnation , and for the leadership of the right hon . Gentleman ' s party to now pretend that they be be inaccurate and do he a disservice . we should contrast his position with the word of the Leader of the opposition when she be in Cabinet . as the Business Secretary pursue business , she say : " we certainly should not be describe China as a foe " . we should contrast his position with that of one of the nine conservative Foreign Secretaries , who say it would be " impossible , impractical and — most importantly — unwise " to sum up China in one word as a threat . as a leadership team , the Conservatives need to stop throw mud and to come to term with what happen on their watch . we must also look reality in the face : we can not shy away from engagement with China . I bet that most Opposition Members have an iPhone in their pocket that be make in China ; I bet they have other thing in their home that be make in China . we must engage , but all of we in this Parliament must do so with our eye wide open about the risk that that involve . some of we in this Parliament have prophesy about that for many year and for long than other , but we must be aware of that . I be not go to intervene , but the hon . Gentleman make a statement about I justify the position of the opposition , as oppose to the Government . I assure he that have the two side be switch , I would be carry out exactly the same cross - examination that I have do today . no matter who have be in government , I seem to have be in opposition , and I want to say so . I be not do this for any betterment ; I be do this because it be right . I apologise if I misrepresent what I be say . I be say that throughout his time on these Benches , the right hon . Gentleman have be forceful in his condemnation . whoever be in government , I believe that he would have do that , but I do not believe that the conservative leadership either on the Opposition Benches or in office do the same . that be the point I be try to make . the opposition call this debate to throw mud , but it be an opportunity to think about the wide security context in which we operate . as the month go on , I be intrigue to see what the conservative party ' s posture will be as it contemplate the security and intelligence environment we be in . will it shy away from engagement with China — a significant market and economic opportunity for we — or seek to engage with China with its eye wide open ? the Conservatives need to accept that they do less than they could have do in office to create the foundation for our security and economic growth . in so do , they make we more vulnerable . until they accept that and apologise for it , it beg the question : why should any of we in this Chamber and in the constituency we represent listen to they ever again on the subject of keep our country safe ? the real threat to our security be not necessarily what other do in the shadow ; it be what one ' s own Government hide from the light . that be the essence of what we be try to get to in the motion before we — we be ask the Government to publish the paper . let I take a step back from this issue to look at the way in which the public will perceive it . this be the big spy story in this country ' s history , at least in this century . we can get into the tit - for - tat about what the pm do or do not know , whether the National Security Adviser speak to his deputy or not , who tell the deputy National Security Adviser that he need to toe the Government line , and how the labour manifesto get into the witness statement , but I want to concentrate more on the big picture . my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) rightly point out the behaviour of the Government . the Prime Minister could have sort this out by come to the House and speak about this topic . he could have lay it all out and put it all forward . the only thing we have have have be a statement before Prime Minister ' s question . of course , we back bencher can not ask question after such statement — there be no way for we to do so . if the Government be so angry , why be more action not be take ? why be people not be fire , and why be we still have this debate several week on if all the information be so crystal clear that this House can move on ? I be worried that this be a pattern of behaviour with the Prime Minister , because we see this with the ambassador . the Prime Minister be the decision maker on that issue , but he do not come to this House ; he send one of his Ministers . I expect that the retort from Labour Members will be , " it be always thus " , but the reason this sadden I so much be that the Prime Minister be be judge by the standard that he set . he say that he would do thing differently , but he be not . he be not come to the House to explain when he could do so . we know that the information and the decision rest with he . when I push the Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , about leadership last time , that be not direct at he — I have a great deal of respect for he . he be follow the leadership of the Prime Minister , who have not come to this House to explain what be go on . if this issue be as clearcut as Labour Members have say , that would be an easy case to make and this House would believe the Prime Minister , but we be not there . that be why I worry , because it lead to a wide debate and wide concern among the public about whether something be go on . do my hon . friend agree that the most obvious point be that , despite the Government ' s disappointment at the collapse of the trial — we have hear numerous minister , include the Prime Minister himself , stress that — it be shocking that they appear not to have do every single thing possible to bolster the case and put the CPS in the good possible position to secure a prosecution ? the two just do not add up . absolutely . not only have the Government not do anything with the case , there be wide debate that could take place — about what legislation need to change and other measure that could be include in the Budget , for example . it be true that the Government have repeatedly express disappointment , but — still more disturbingly , in a sense — so have MI5 . it be quite unusual for MI5 to intervene , by mean of a speech by its head which make it very clear that MI5 be profoundly disappointed that this matter have not go to court . have it do so , it would have be the culmination of year of work do by MI5 to try to deal with chinese espionage in Whitehall and Westminster . my right hon . friend be absolutely spot on . it be because of these unprecedented fact that I would expect the Prime Minister to come forward and provide answer , not send a Minister in his place . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because I have take two intervention already . my worry be about what the public perceive , because it be a statement of fact that since the Chancellor go to China , decision have be make about the Chagos island , for example , or British Steel and £ 1 billion — what be go on there ? a spy case have now be drop , and there be the possibility of a super - embassy and even ID card . my constituent be come to I see a run theme . when I hear the hon . Gentleman speak , I listen to what he be say — I think he could be a very good replacement for the shadow Minister on the Front Bench . the question I want to ask , though , be this : what be his view on the relationship of the UK to China ? ought we to engage and , if so , on what term , or should we be economically decouple ? what be his view about the nature of that relationship ? to repeat the quote we hear early , we need to walk and chew gum at the same time . it be easy to call China a threat , but still to engage . that be exactly what the chinese Government do to we : they say , " we ' re embarrassed . we ' re upset . you promise we something " , and we just say , " oh , I ' m terribly sorry about that . " we could stand up for ourselves and say what we think . let we not forget that we be in a trade deficit with China ; it be economically in China ' s interest to be work with we , as much as it be in our interest to be work with China . my worry , though , be that the public be join dot . the Government will say that there be no dot to be join , but the long this go on and the more incident come out , it become hard to make that argument . that bring we full circle to where I start , because this be about transparency and release the documentation . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way and for bring we back to where he start . he start his speech by suggest that the Government be intervene unduly in this case . he then go on to suggest that the Government do not intervene unduly enough . can he be clear on this : be his position and that of the Opposition that the Government should have interfere in an independent prosecution , or not ? it be unhelpful to be say both thing at the same time . I feel I be be misquote , because I have simply ask for all this to be resolve by publish the information . the Government could come out and say that China be a threat . I have also say that we can call it a threat and work economically with the Chinese . that be what I hope will happen . [ interruption . ] I will finish at that point . my hon . and right hon . friend have set out well how the Government ' s account of how the case collapse simply do not add up , so in the interest of time I will make just this one point . if , as many on the Opposition Benches and I suspect to be the case , the Prime Minister ' s account of this situation be not factually correct , he have allow this case to collapse to win favour in Beijing . that be a profound state of weakness . even if the Prime Minister ' s account of the situation be true , that mean he do not have control over his official . serious national security decision be be make without his knowledge . that , too , be a profound state of weakness . it be important to establish the fact . will the hon . Lady give way ? I regret that I can not ; I promise to speak briefly . whatever the fact may be , this be not how serious country behave . regardless of our politic , we should all want our country to be respect by our friend and our adversary . under this Government , our friend see we as unreliable and our adversary see we as a pushover . it be time for the Government to tell the truth and undo some of the harm that they have do to this country ' s stand in the world . rise — I will be start the Front - Bench contribution at 6 . 40 sharp . among all the finger - pointing in this House , there be some immutable fact , and one be that in the spring of 2024 , the evidential burden to bring a prosecution be meet , because the CPS level a charge that the two individual be guilty under the 1911 Act of have information capable of assist an enemy . the first point be that a deficiency in the 1911 Act be not the problem , because the CPS be capable of bring the charge . the second point be that to bring the charge , the evidential test for bring a prosecution have to be meet : that there be a reasonable prospect of conviction and that it be in the public interest . the unanswered question in all this be what happen between the spring of 2024 and September 2025 , when suddenly the same evidential test be not meet . what change ? it be meet , or the charge could never have be bring , but suddenly it be not meet and the charge be drop . it seem pretty clear from what have be say to a Committee of this House that what change be that the Government back off in their evidence as to what would establish whether China be an enemy . the Government be assist in the meantime by the bulgarian case , where the Court of Appeal refine " enemy " to " pose threat or threat " . indeed , the Court say it be a matter of common sense as to whether something or someone be an enemy . there be no great jury question than to decide whether or not something be common sense . the prosecution look easy after the Court of Appeal decision , not hard , yet the prosecution be drop . that be yet to be explain to this House . it seem to I that it can only be explain by the Government ' s fail to come up to proof . since they have come up to proof to bring the charge in the first place , they obviously retreat . we can talk around this as much as we like , but that seem to I to be the immovable reality of the situation . there be , of course , issue here about the equivocation of the Government towards China , but it be an equivocation that be even infect devolution . come up in Northern Ireland be a co - sponsor conference between the Chinese Government and the Sinn F é in Economy Minister to talk about infrastructure and investment . I say to this Government that they need to take a long , hard look at the way in which devolve institution , particularly in Stormont , be play footsie with the Chinese Government . I call the shadow Home Secretary . " in my opinion , China pose an active and current threat to the United Kingdom . " that be all that the Government need to say to the Crown Prosecution Service in order to secure this conviction , and yet they do not . as recently as 12 day ago , the director general of M15 say that China pose a daily threat . in July 2022 , he and his FBI counterpart say that China be pose a grow threat . the former Security Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , say it in April 2024 , from that Dispatch Box , and the July 2021 integrated review say that China pose the " big state - base threat to the UK ' s economic security . " it be pretty simple . I have say it , and the Government could have say it , but they do not . the Government ' s commentary on this case have be evasive and sometimes misleading . for example , the Prime Minister claim in India , on 7 October , that what matter in this case be the previous Government ' s designation of China . he say it again , from that Dispatch Box , on 15 October . he say that the issue be the position of the last government , and the Paymaster General say it again in his opening speech . that claim , make by the Prime Minister and make again by the Paymaster General early today , be categorically untrue . we know it be untrue because on page 4 of his letter , the Director of Public Prosecutions say it be untrue . he say : " the test be therefore positively not what the then Government be prepared to … say in public … whether frame as … policy or otherwise … but … whether China be — as a matter of fact — an active threat to national security . " he say it again in evidence yesterday . he say : " we be look to the dnsa to provide evidence of the actual threat … and not what government policy be . " the DPP have say that categorically in writing and in evidence yesterday . what the Prime Minister say be misleading , and I ask this Minister , the Security Minister , to retract it on the Prime Minister ' s behalf . moreover , the Security Minister himself say on 15 September that the collapse of the case have come as a big surprise to the Government , and that they hear about it only that morning . he say : " the decision be communicate this morning " . — [ Official Report , 15 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 1187 . ] that , I be afraid , be not true . the decision be communicate on 3 September at the late , and it most certainly do not come as a surprise to the Government . it be not the case that , as the Minister claim , he could not comment on why the case have collapse , as if he do not know about it , because on no few than nine different occasion , accord to the DPP , the Crown Prosecution Service plead with the Government — beg the Government — to say those simple word that I say a couple of minute ago and the Government , over two year , refuse to say . in June 2024 , December 2024 , February 2025 , May 2025 , July 2025 — twice , on 3 and 10 July — August 2025 , 3 September 2025 and 9 September 2025 , the CPS beg the Government to say those simple word , and the Government would not say they . why exactly be the Security Minister act all surprised on 15 September , claim that he do not know what be go on , when on nine separate occasion the CPS have plead with the Government ? now we come to the meeting of 1 September , a meeting that the Home Secretary , quote in the Telegraph on 5 October , claim do not happen . well , we now know that it do happen . what we do not know , however , be precisely what be discuss at that meeting . we have not see the minute of it , and we do not know the action arise from it . we do know that it be chair by Jonathan Powell , the National Security Adviser . we know that many people be there . we know that the deputy National Security Adviser , Matt Collins , be there . we also know that on 14 August , two and a half week before that meeting , he attend a conference that include the First Treasury Counsel , at which it become clear that Mr Collins would not change his evidence , and the case would therefore collapse . so Mr Collins go into that meeting on 1 September , most likely know that the case be unlikely to proceed . be that discuss ? be the possibility of provide more evidence discuss in that meeting ? we do not know . that be why the minute need to be publish . we know for a fact that , on 3 September , the Director of Public Prosecutions inform the Cabinet Secretary and the dnsa that the case be not go to be proceed on the evidence as it stand . the DPP also say in page 6 of his letter : " it be agree that " the Cabinet Secretary " might inform a limited group , include some minister . " I therefore ask the Security Minister to tell the House now which Ministers be inform pursuant to that meeting on 3 September , and whether they take any action as a result — for example , decide to provide well evidence , which they could have do . it be recently report in the Sunday Times that the Home Secretary get wind of this around that time , and decide to try to intervene . I do ask the Security Minister this in an urgent question last week , and many of my hon . friend do as well , but he do not answer the question , so perhaps he now can : when do the Home Secretary become aware of the collapse of the trial ? do she try to intervene ? if so , how ? it be quite clear that the Government , have they want to , could have intervene between 3 September , when the Cabinet Secretary be inform and be give permission to inform Ministers , and the meeting on 9 September , six day later , when the CPS try , one last time — at least the ninth time — to get the evidence it need , but , once again , it be not forthcoming . do the Government have any discussion in that period , between 3 and 9 September , about further evidence that they might have provide ? if they do not , why not ? a few simple word be all that be need — word not about the previous Government ' s policy , but about the fact as they stand on the ground . I utter those word just a few minute ago — it be simple enough — and if this Government have say what I say a few minute ago , this case would have proceed . why do they choose not to do that ? member of this Parliament have be spy on by a hostile state : a state that have steal intellectual property on an industrial scale , both covertly and through acquisition ; a state that plan to build a large embassy , probably for espionage purpose among other thing ; a state that have open secret police station ; a state that have put bounty on the head of people live in the United Kingdom ; and a state that have actively support Russia in its war against Ukraine . the Government could not produce evidence that it be an active and current threat , even though I think it be quite clear to everyone in this Chamber that it be . why do the Government not provide the evidence they be ask to provide at least nine time ? be it because they be more interested in get some sort of economic bailout from the Chinese , to fix the mess they have create , than they be in our national security ? that be the question they need to answer . if this House and the country be to understand exactly what happen with this case , we need full transparency and full disclosure : the minute of those meeting , the action arise from they , and the correspondence with the CPS . if they really want transparency — as the Minister for the Cabinet Office say early — all they have to do be support this motion and put this material where it belong : in the public domain . I begin by thank the opposition for bring forward this Opposition day debate , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) for move this motion , and the shadow Home Secretary for his remark . as I have repeatedly set out to the House , the Government be extremely disappointed that this case will not be hear in court . I also share member ' concern about the threat that we face from espionage . will the Minister give way ? I be just go to make a bit of progress . let I be clear about two thing right from the start . first , we would not be discuss this here today have the outdated Official Secrets Act 1911 be replace soon . secondly , it be the responsibility of the CPS and the DPP to bring criminal prosecution and compile evidence . the statement submit to the JCNSS confirm that , as do the evidence that the Joint Committee hear yesterday from the Cabinet Secretary and the dnsa . we have be consistently clear that no Ministers and no special adviser interfere in the provision of evidence under this Government . can the Security Minister confirm to the House that the UK Government , at ministerial level and diplomatic level , have not be threaten by the chinese state about this trial ? have it say , " if this trial go ahead , there will be consequence " ? be the Minister aware of any discussion or any correspondence , either from the chinese embassy or directly from Chinese Ministers to ours , that threaten this nation ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman — whom I hold in high regard , not least for the work that he do on the ISC — that I can give he the assurance that he seek . I can also assure he and the House how seriously this Government take the challenge that we face from country right around the world . let I return to the dnsa ' s evidence . as his write evidence make clear — this be an important point that the House will want to note — from the moment the dnsa ' s witness statement be submit , he be a fully bind witness in criminal proceeding . his evidence have not yet be hear or test in court , so his witness evidence could not be and be not share , and this be later confirm by the CPS . in this debate and in recent week , there have be a number of different , and at time conflicting , claim about this Government ' s involvement in the case , and I want to address those claim directly today . at the dnsa ' s request , the word " enemy " be remove from the first witness statement during the drafting process , because it do not reflect the Government ' s policy at the time . the dnsa make amendment to ensure that his witness statement text reflect his assessment of the strong element of the evidential material provide by Counter Terrorism Policing , by demonstrate that the information that be allege to have be provide be prejudicial to the safety or the interest of the UK . when CTP approach the dnsa to write a supplementary statement in November 2024 , he be specifically ask to comment on whether China pose an active threat to the UK ' s national security during the period of 31 December 2021 to 3 February 2023 , and to confirm whether that remain the position at the time of writing . that be why paragraph 6 of the second statement reference part of the current Government policy towards China . the Minister be make a powerful point about the active threat . at this point in time , do the Government perceive China to be an active threat ? as the hon . Gentleman know — I think I may have even say this to he previously , and certainly to the House — China present a series of threat to the Government . I will say a little bit more about that . as time be short , I want to focus on the dnsa and the evidence that he have give , because that be important for the House . the dnsa confirm to the JCNSS yesterday that he use language from an answer to a parliamentary question in his third statement , in which he provide the current Government ' s position as context , as have be request . the dnsa ' s third statement be write in a way that ensure consistency with his first two statement . for the sake of clarity , I will say it again : the current National Security Adviser have no role in either the substance of the case or the evidence provide . there have be misreporte , speculation and fabrication about the official ' meet that the National Security Adviser chair on 1 September — the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) mention it just a moment ago . I can tell he and the House that a meeting of senior official take place on 1 September to discuss the UK ' s relationship with China . the meeting be specifically set up to provide — will the Minister give way on that point ? let I just finish my point . I will come back to the right hon . and learn Gentleman if time allow . the meeting be specifically set up to provide the fcdo with an opportunity to discuss — at an appropriately senior official level ; no Ministers attend the meeting — what the approach would be to handle engagement with China across a range of scenario relate to this case , as well as in relation to wide issue that would come up . those who attend the meeting be operate on the basis that the trial would go ahead at the start of October . rise — rise — I be go to make a bit of progress , because time be against I . meeting such as this be a routine part of the NSA ' s role . will the Minister give way ? the Minister do say he would give way to I . I be go to make a bit of progress , because time be against I . meeting such as this be a routine part of the National Security Adviser ' s role of co - ordinating Departments across Government . will the Minister give way on the question of who be present ? yes . why be the Attorney General ' s Office represent and present ? if the meeting have nothing to do with the case , why be the Attorney General ' s Office present through its representative ? simply because a number of Departments be represent at this meeting , as would normally be the case . the Attorney General ' s Office have nothing to do with foreign policy . the right hon . and learn Gentleman serve in a Government a number of year ago . I can give he an assurance that this Government work collaboratively across Government with other Departments , and therefore it seem to make perfect sense that other Departments would be represent at such a meeting . I will try to reflect some of the point that have be make in this debate , include the point from the shadow Home Secretary , who ask specifically about the Home Secretary . I can tell he and the House that no Minister — no Minister in this government — be involve in any aspect of the production of evidence . will the Minister give way ? the Liberal Democrats spokesman , the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , offer his service as a marriage guidance counsellor . I would advise he not to give up his job . rise — Order . Minister , please continue . my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) nail the myth , I think very effectively , in his contribution . the right hon . and learn Member for Torridge and Tavistock ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) describe his duck . it feel as if his contribution be as much aim at the DPP and the CPS as at the Government , but it be engage none the less . my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) raise important point about some of the critique that have be level , and I agree with he about try to establish cross - party consensus . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green speak about the nature and the description of the threat we face from China . let I say to he that it be completely unacceptable that he and other member of this House be sanction , and I give he an absolute assurance of the seriousness with which this government take those particular threat . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) speak about transnational repression . he have raise it previously , and I can tell he that the defend democracy taskforce have conclude a review , and the Government have develop a range of support and security mechanism . most importantly , however , we condemn any malign activity towards anyone here in the UK . the right hon . member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) speak about the work of the ISC , and he be right to do so . the Government welcome the work of the ISC in look carefully at the circumstance of this case , as we do the important work of the JCNSS . I think my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) make the really important point that , give the concern that have rightly be express right across this House about what have happen , we should be try to seek to work together and establish a consensus . I think he make that point very powerfully . time be run short , so let I say to the House that national security be the first duty of this Government . that be why we oppose the opposition ' s motion , which would see the release not only of information subject to legal professional privilege , but of information vital to the security of the United Kingdom , include advice to the Prime Minister . successive government , include the previous Government in which the shadow Home Secretary serve as a Minister , have maintain that position . this be not a question about parliamentary scrutiny . we welcome the ongoing process with the JCNSS , and we look forward to continue to work with it , as we do with the ISC . this government will continue to develop a consistent and pragmatic approach to economic engagement , but without compromise our national security . I have a very simple question : if the Minister will not give the minute of that meeting to the House , will he give they to the Intelligence and Security Committee , which sit in camera ? the Government have give a very clear commitment that we will co - operate and work closely with all of the Committees of this House . it be precisely because everything this government do be root in the national interest that I say that this Government be extremely disappointed that this case have collapse . it be right that the matter be be investigate by the appropriate parliamentary Committees , and we look forward to co - operate with that work . question put . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Ben Lake Katie Lam Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy David Reed Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gregor Poynton Imogen Walker the House divide : Ayes 174 , Noes 327 . question accordingly negative . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 ( Mutual Recognition Agreement ) ( Switzerland ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 21 July , be approve . — ( Jade Botterill . ) question agree to . Adjournment ( November , Christmas and February ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 25 ) , that this House , at its rise on Wednesday 5 November 2025 , do adjourn until Tuesday 11 November 2025 ; at its rise on Thursday 18 December 2025 , do adjourn until Monday 5 January 2026 ; and at its rise on Thursday 12 February 2026 , do adjourn until Monday 23 February 2026 . — ( Jade Botterill . ) question agree to . education Ordered , that Amanda Martin and Marie Tidball be discharge from the Education Committee and Peter Swallow and Chris Vince be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) support for disabled Veterans Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jade Botterill . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to highlight the issue face by disabled veteran . at the last census , more than 3 , 000 people in Eastleigh report that they have previously serve in the armed force ; of those people , 1 , 045 be classify as disabled . veteran have make huge sacrifice for our country , yet too often they find that the system that be mean to support they be inconsistent or simply not fit for purpose . I have previously raise the case of my constituent Mark Houghton MBE in this Chamber and write to the Minister about it . Mark be a decorate Army veteran who serve with distinction for over two decade in the british Army . he be deploy in Afghanistan , Estonia and Latvia . in February this year , Mark suffer catastrophic injury in an accident while work abroad . Mark can not walk , yet he have be deny access to the personal independent payment and employment and support allowance because he do not reside in the UK for 18 month out of the last three year . it be great that my hon . friend have secure this debate . nearly half of UK veteran report be disabled . that figure be far high than it be for the general population . many of our disabled veteran receive military compensation , as my hon . Friend say , to support they with an injury or illness cause by service . do she agree that it be an absolute disgrace that military compensation be include when people be mean - test for certain benefit ? that leave so many veteran and their family disadvantage . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for her intervention . I will come to that point later . during Mark ' s time abroad , he pay UK taxis , and he be now back in the UK permanently , yet he have be block from access continuous care and financial support because of the residency criterion . the emotional toll on Mark and his family have be enormous . they have be force to sell their home of more than 20 year . in his word , " I fight for this country . I ' ve pay my taxis all my life . and now because I be abroad for 18 month I be make to suffer . I feel deserted , unwanted … abandon . it ' s devastating " . I be sure the Minister will agree that this be an appalling way to treat a veteran . the armed force covenant state that member of the armed force community should be treat with dignity and respect , but in this case , as in so many other , that simply be not happen . the armed force covenant all too often do not live up to what people expect . I have a constituent who have struggle to access housing suitable for his need . he have two child , but because he suffer with post - traumatic stress disorder and wake up in the night with night terror , the child be not able to stay with he . do my hon . friend agree that when it come to housing , we need to do much more to support those who have serve ? I do agree with my hon . friend . I be sure that the Minister want to champion disabled veteran , so do she agree that Mark deserve support now ? sadly , Mark be one of the many veteran across this country face systemic challenge . veteran report feel unprepared for civilian life after medical discharge , as the system be unclear and inconsistent . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . I recently speak with Gloucestershire resident and british Army veteran Chris , who have be confine to a wheelchair since a jungle warfare training accident in 1998 . he speak of the obstacle of pride , and of how too many personnel decline to seek help until a point of crisis , if ever . he would have benefit from a regimental or service advocate , who could intervene either early on or post discharge to motivate and support those affect before it be too late . do my hon . friend agree that such support could help bridge the feeling of abandonment that injure veteran often feel after discharge ? I agree with my hon . friend . too often , the system fail to provide a simple , support handover to civilian healthcare , or advice on housing , employment and benefit . charity and veteran ' group be call for an independent review of the medical discharge process across all service to make it consistent , compassionate and genuinely supportive , so that no disabled veteran fall through the crack , or be leave without the good possible support . I commend the hon . Lady on bring forward this debate . the armed force covenant in Northern Ireland need to be upgrade as well . the covenant be only as good as the authority that implement it . do she agree that a review must be carry out to ensure improvement in how our veteran be help , especially those who have be leave with physical or mental trauma ? we must review the situation in every constituency of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . every soldier need to be look after . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . accord to help for Heroes , veteran with complex mental health condition , include post - traumatic stress disorder , often face long wait for mental health treatment . although the armed force covenant promise priority treatment for service - relate condition , the reality on the ground can fall short . in England , Op Courage be a welcome single front door for veteran mental health , but there remain issue with consistency , capacity and specialist expertise . we need an improve Op Courage pathway with a common assessment tool , well signpost from GPs and acute trust , and an explicit requirement that practitioner deliver care have expertise in military mental health . access should be seamless across the UK , so that when it come to support , there be no postcode lottery . on the Mental Health Bill Committee , we speak repeatedly about veteran experience mental ill health , often link to trauma from their service . they often end up in a system that do not recognise their trauma and what they have be through . do my hon . friend agree that it would be a good idea to have a dedicated role of veteran ' mental health oversight officer ? the Lib Dems have be call for such an officer , so that we can ensure that veteran receive the understanding and tailor care that they deserve . my hon . friend make an excellent point . I agree with he . the Royal British Legion have note the structural failure to automatically transfer a service leaver ' s medical record to the NHS . service leaver must request their full clinical record from Defence Medical Services , which be under the Ministry of Defence . that can take several month . delay in access those record often result in difficulty obtain civilian healthcare service or financial housing support . I understand that the Government have commit to digitise service medical record through Programme Cortisone , but can the Minister provide a timetable for completion ? the delivery of that programme be essential to ensure timely access to service and continuity of care . meet the need of the armed force community , include those with disability , clearly rely on our knowing who and where they be , and how they access service and support . I want to highlight a technicality that affect veteran who serve before 1987 . prior to the Crown Proceedings ( Armed Forces ) Act 1987 , veteran be unable to bring compensation claim against the Ministry of Defence . the 1987 Act change that , but can not be apply retrospectively , so pre - 1987 veteran remain exclude . do my hon . friend agree that that need to be look at to ensure consistent compensation support for disabled veteran across the United Kingdom ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I be sure that the Minister will address that . veteran who use Government service often report have to set out their veteran status or repeat detail of their time in service to multiple agency . the Government must establish improved collection and sharing of datum to help deliver tailor support . disabled veteran frequently struggle with the PIP process , as the complex form and assessment can be difficult to navigate , and the situation be make bad by the need to repeat traumatic information . when health and benefit system fail , financial hardship be the result . accord to the Trussell Trust , veteran be twice as likely to run out of food as people who have never serve in the armed force , and a third of veteran with a physical disability or mental condition regularly go without the essential . I hope that the Government will tackle that in the Budget next month , and will ensure that veteran never have to struggle to cover the essential . we know that financial insecurity and poor living condition can make health condition bad , so there need to be great urgency in ensure that the benefit system support the nation ' s hero with the cost of living . I thank the hon . Lady very much for secure the debate , and for her generosity in take so many intervention . in Clackmannanshire , we have the Wee County Veterans and Supporters Group , which provide incredible support and camaraderie to ex - servicemen and ex - servicewoman . however , it be incredibly dismay at the withdrawal of the armed service advice project from RBL , which have be replace with a generic telephone service . I consider that to be a serious downgrade from RBL . do the hon . Lady agree ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I understand he have raise that issue in the House before , and no doubt the Minister will address it in due course . I pay tribute to the Royal British Legion , help for Heroes and SSAFA for their advocacy on behalf of disabled veteran . the Royal British Legion ' s " credit their service " campaign have highlight that military compensation award for pain and loss in service be too often treat as ordinary income when people be mean - test for benefit , include council tax support , housing benefit and disabled facility grant . John , who live in Fivehead , lose his hearing due to inadequate ear protection on the practice fire range , and he receive compensation as a result . he have never claim benefit . however , if he need to apply for they in future , his compensation payment will disadvantage he . that be contrary to the armed force covenant . do my hon . friend agree that military compensation for disability should not count when people be be mean - test for benefit , and that veteran should not be penalise ? I absolutely agree . the situation be wrong in principle and damage in practice . military and civilian compensation should be treat the same . the Government should amend the legislation and guidance , so that military compensation be fully disregard in mean - test benefit , and so that there be national consistency where there be currently a postcode lottery . for example , the mean test for disabled facility grant , which fund home adaptation , can deter those on modest income . decision be inconsistent , and the treatment of military compensation vary . minister should work with local government to remove those barrier , and guarantee timely adaptation for disabled veteran . rehabilitation be another area where the standard drop after discharge . while serve , severely wound personnel can access world - class multidisciplinary rehabilitation , include cut - edge device , at the Defence Medical Rehabilitation Centre . however , once they leave service and the lifespan of those device expire , replace they become the responsibility of the NHS , which generally provide equipment of low quality and utility . help for Heroes be call for an NHS rehabilitation pathway for veteran that provide an equivalent level of care , and that guarantee like - for - like replacement of essential aid and device initially provide by Defence Medical Services . I commend the hon . member for bring forward this debate . as a representative from Northern Ireland , I be conscious that it be where many of our veteran suffer the injury that give they their disability ; they be defend we from the terrorism of various organisation . for that , we owe a debt of gratitude ; their sacrifice be well mark at this time of the year . flow from that , in Northern Ireland , there be the victim ' permanent disablement payment scheme , administer from Northern Ireland but available to all veteran across the United Kingdom who suffer their disability in Northern Ireland . sadly , despite thousand have be injure , few than 1 , 000 veteran from GB have apply to the fund . it provide a monthly payment and the possibility of a 10 - year lump sum . through this debate , may I urge veteran in GB who suffer their injury in Northern Ireland to apply to that scheme before it close for application on 31 August next year ? I thank the hon . and learn Member for his intervention . for the most seriously injure , integrate personal commissioning for veteran can be transformative , but eligibility be too narrow ; it exclude those injure before 2010 and those in residential care . the Royal British Legion be push the Government to increase investment in adult social care to meet the need of the armed force community . will the Minister confirm whether the Government will ensure that social care reform reflect covenant commitment ? veteran be be let down across the board . they need much well help with the cost of living crisis . that be why I support the establishment of an Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , and the launch of an inquiry on the impact of the cost of live crisis on the armed force community . More need to be do for unpaid carer , and to fight stigma around mental ill health , as more than half of veteran say that they have have a mental health problem , and 60 % say that they find it hard to speak up about mental health issue . I congratulate the hon . member on hold such an important debate . a veteran in my Redditch constituency live with severe ptsd and find everyday noise — banging , shout and even child play — deeply debilitate . he would greatly benefit from a service dog , but his accommodation be too small and be without a secure garden . do she agree that veteran and their family deserve access to housing that properly meet their physical and mental health need , include space for vital assistance animal , and that they should not be ask to settle for second good ? I absolutely agree . more also need to be do for unpaid carer and to fight the stigma around mental health , as more than half of veteran say that they have have a mental health problem and 60 % say that they find it hard to speak up about mental health issue . we also need well recording of veteran ' physical and mental health outcome , include wait time , so that we can see where service be fall short . that would allow we to work in this House to address that . above all , military compensation for illness or injury should not count towards means - testing for benefit . my constituency of Eastleigh have a unique and proud connection with our armed force through the Spitfire and the role our community play in secure victory in the second world war . this Remembrance Day , I will also be pay tribute to the disabled veteran in my constituency who , like Mark Houghton , serve our country with honour but now feel left behind and let down . our veteran deserve so much more : well mental health support ; easy access to professional help ; regular mental health check - up at key life point ; fair benefit that respect live reality ; and consistent datum so that we can fix what be fail . I appreciate the time the Minister have give to this debate , and I hope that she will take on board the point I have make . I very much welcome this debate on disabled veteran . it be a hugely important topic , and I be grateful to the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) for secure it and for speak so passionately about the subject , which I know be dear to so many . I thank she for her excellent speech and everybody else for their thought - provoke contribution . as she rightly state , almost a third of UK veteran have some form of disability , so this be an issue that affect every constituency and every community across the country . I will always welcome scrutiny of what we be do to support disabled veteran and how we deliver the very good care and support for those who have serve . this be not just a professional imperative for I ; it be personal . I serve in the Army and I have work alongside many soldier and officer who be injure and who today carry the physical and mental scar from their service . many be able to carry those as part of their day - to - day life , but many really feel the impact on their personal life . my office be support a veteran with complex ptsd who have experience a judicial process that simply do not adequately reflect the specific need of some veteran . do the Minister accept that veteran with conflict - relate ptsd can function well in many or most aspect of life but may be especially affect or trigger in confrontational or adversarial setting such as court proceeding ? will she endorse the adoption of trauma - inform practice and proper training within the judiciary on the presentation of complex ptsd to help ensure fair treatment and , crucially , to ensure that veteran be not retraumatise by the system ? I want to add that I have very good conversation with the previous Veterans Minister , the hon . member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , on this issue before the hon . Lady take on the role . the hon . member be absolutely right to draw attention to the importance of a trauma - inform response . if she be able to write to I with detail of the case , I will take a look at it . I be speak about those I serve alongside and about veteran across the country . they answer when our country call they , so it be now up to we to renew the contract with those who serve . I would like briefly to address some of the point that hon . member have make . a point be raise by a couple of hon . member about the interplay of military benefit , compensation , allowance and pension , and the exist benefit system . as I be sure they be aware , there be a complex range of benefit , and the way in which they interact with the benefit system can be complicated . it be important to note that there be a principle about duplication . for example , where military compensation be receive through the independence payment , there be a principle of duplication with regard to the personal independence payment . a lot of military compensation allowance do not necessarily directly affect entitlement to benefit and have different impact on tax . the hon . and gallant Member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) make a point about veteran not always reach out to seek help . I hope he be aware of the recently announce Valour scheme , which will be a regional network of physical hub . I passionately believe in the strength of those hub because a veteran will be able to go in with absolutely no obligation , have a cup of tea and speak to people who understand . veteran will gain trust and comfort from that , and therefore find it easy to talk about the issue they face and the support they need . I hope we will be able to announce more detail soon , because I believe those hub will help significantly . I thank the gallant Minister for give way . on the point about the complex benefit ecosystem , I have fantastic charity in my constituency call Sight Scotland and Sight Scotland Veterans , which do an excellent job support veteran as they apply for welfare . will the Minister join I in congratulate charity across the country that work every single day to support our veteran ? we be fortunate to have a wonderful charity sector make up of charity both large and small , some with quite broad remit and some , as my hon . friend mention , very focused . I be always blow away by people ' s dedication to support our veteran , and I applaud their valuable work . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) for secure this debate . where the state fall down , so often the charitable sector and amazing volunteer be there to pick up the piece . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to some of the incredible charity in my Surrey Heath constituency , which , as she know , be deeply connect to the military through the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , Pirbright and the former deepcut barrack ? I think in particular of the recently reconstitute branch of the Camberley Royal British Legion , but also the Surrey Heath veteran hub and incredible volunteer such as Roy Sellstrom , who have for year give time and effort to rehabilitate and support our very well respect veteran community . as the hon . member know , I spend some time in his constituency while at Sandhurst . it be an area with deep connection to the armed force , and I certainly join he in applaud they and the charity that he mention . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and , I believe , the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) speak about the challenge of make sure that the covenant be apply fairly across the country . as I be sure they be aware , we be extend the armed force covenant into law . part of that be about prevent a postcode lottery so that we can set clear expectation about how the covenant affect a range of policy area , particularly those deliver by local government , but also across area such as housing . I thank the Minister for all her answer , and I wish she well in her new position . she will be aware of the charity beyond the Battlefield in Portavogie , in my constituency , which look after soldier across Northern Ireland who fall between the crack . may I extend an invitation to she ? it would be lovely to see she in Portavogie and Strangford , and I know that the people there would be encourage by a visit from she . I certainly hope to visit Northern Ireland soon , and I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s invitation . I congratulate my hon . friend on her appointment to her ministerial role . it be encouraging to hear again that the Government intend to legislate to put the covenant on a statutory footing , but she will know that enforcement of the covenant be as important as the statute from which it derive . across the country , some organisation voluntarily put the covenant at the core of what they do , and it be a tenet of the principle on which they make decision . in other place , it be a certificate that lot of people have sign for show . how will the Government make sure that the new law be enforce properly to eradicate the postcode lottery , which none of we want to see , from public service ? my hon . friend raise an important point about how we make sure that the armed force covenant , when it be put into law , be deliver consistently , and that those work across our country be hold to account for their delivery of it . I hope to update he with more detail soon . on the covenant , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for the point he make , and I would appreciate it if he write to I about the case he mention . finally , I thank the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) for mention the trouble permanent disablement payment scheme , and for raise awareness of it . Mark Houghton serve his country with honour and courage , so I be shocked to hear about the horrific extent of the injury he sustain in an e - scooter crash . as the hon . member for Eastleigh will know , all benefit , include the personal independence payment , have certain condition attach ; some be mean - test or base on the number of contribution pay in relevant tax year , and a past presence test may be apply . the administration of those benefit be a matter for the Department for Work and Pensions . however , if she wish to write to I , will ensure that the detail of the case be share with colleague in that Department . anyone who have follow defence policy over the past 16 month will know how hard this Government be work to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . we be deliver the large sustained increase in defence spending since the cold war , as well as the big pay increase for over two decade . we be transform military housing and ensure that we overhaul recruitment . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend the Minister — it be great to say that — for give way . we know that our disabled veteran be over - represent in the homeless community , but Doncaster council have take a lead in make the armed force a locally represent group . that mean that member of the armed force be consider more in the council ' s housing strategy and plan . do she think that that be a good idea that should be roll out across the country by other council ? I applaud the work that Doncaster council be do to take the need of veteran into account . as the armed force covenant be put into law , I hope that that be exactly the sort of thing that we will see roll out across the country . although the data show that almost a third of veteran be disabled , we must always remember that behind every statistic be a person who train , deploy and serve . every one of those veteran will have a unique story , and face unique and different challenge . to provide an effective support network , we must ensure that the service be tailor and flexible and respond to each individual ' s need . I thank the hon . and gallant Minister for give way and I congratulate she on her position . I recently meet representative of the charity Combat Stress , which be base in my constituency . I be make aware that PTSD can come up to five , 10 or 15 year after deployment , which I do not know . at the moment , there be no obligation for GPs to be aware of the fact that individual be veteran , so when a veteran present to a gp , the GP might not know that they be a veteran . what do the Minister think about the mandatory registration of veteran , so that GPs will be aware that they have previously serve and can provide adequate support ? the hon . member raise an important point . in common with any veteran of the war in Afghanistan , I find it interesting how the experience change as we move away from it . there be many pathway to support . gp surgery be often the first point of contact . I urge every veteran to flag with their gp that they be a veteran , so that it be add to their medical record , as that will help primary care service understand their need . I know that many GP surgery and NHS trust have go far and ensure that they have develop veteran - friendly gp practice and veteran - aware NHS trust . there be other scheme that provide support . Op Restore , the veteran physical health and wellbeing service , support veteran if they have a physical health problem of any type or severity that result from their service , if they be base England , no matter when the problem first appear or when they leave the armed force . a gp can refer veteran to Op Restore . the Ministry of Defence veteran welfare service deliver one - to - one support through a network of welfare manager across the UK and the Republic of Ireland . it do a fantastic job and I commend the hard work of those manager . we also have integrate personal commissioning for veteran , which have already be raise . for many veteran , be able to live independently in a safe and suitable environment be of paramount importance , as hon . member have say . local authority have a statutory duty to provide adaptation for people who satisfy a need assessment , eligibility criterion and mean test . indeed , this Government have boost funding for the disabled facility grant by £ 86 million annually — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .