Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Emergency Alert System what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the emergency alert system . what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the emergency alert system . the emergency alert system be a vital tool for warning and inform in a case of a serious incident where there be a threat to life . this Government have use the tool five time , include the large ever deployment for storm É owyn . we be incorporate the lesson identify , include on improved targeting , into alert mechanism . a secret phone can be a lifeline for survivor of domestic abuse . can the Minister tell the House what step the Government be take to ensure that when emergency alert be send , survivor of domestic abuse be not put in any additional danger ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . the whole purpose of the emergency alert be to make people safe , so we be mindful of the potential risk to people with secret phone , such as victim of domestic abuse . we be continue to work with domestic abuse charity and organisation that support victim to mitigate the risk , include by produce guidance on disable emergency alert . the threat of flooding be ever present in Carlisle , and although I and other local resident regularly receive flood alert , they do not necessarily distinguish between a threat to life and a regular flood alert . could the Minister please explain at what point flood alert be update to reflect the seriousness of an emergency alert ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . the Environment Agency be responsible for issue flood warning . for location cover by severe flood warning , the Environment Agency may ask for an emergency alert to be activate where there be an immediate threat to life , in order to support the response in the local area . I thank the Minister for her response . it be good that we have this system right across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and that all our constituent can respond to it . it have a very clear role . first , how quickly can there be a response to thing such as domestic abuse , flood warning or whatever ? secondly , my understanding be that council have a role to play . if so , perhaps the Minister could remind we of their role . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important issue . we work very closely with local authority and local resilience forum when consider issue an emergency alert , to ensure that the response be as adequate as possible . Cyber - security : local Government Resilience what step his Department be take to help ensure the resilience of local government digital infrastructure against cyber - attack . the Government be work hard to improve the cyber resilience of the public sector , because cyber - attack can be against central Government institution , local authority and , of course , individual and business . with regard to local authority , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government have launch a cyber assessment framework for local government . it set a clear cyber - security standard for the sector , and the Department also provide monthly cyber clinic to support local authority in improve collaboration , share intelligence and tackling vulnerability in this area . local council manage mountain of sensitive datum , deliver essential service and lead on emergency response to critical incident , among much more , yet 15 year of Tory underfunding have leave outdated digital infrastructure , leave they particularly vulnerable to cyber - attack . do the Minister agree that improve cyber resilience in local authority be of paramount importance if we be to protect our citizen ’ datum and continue to deliver essential service without interruption from hostile actor ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : not all the system use across central or local government be as up to date as they should be . this be a constant battle and a constant challenge . it be really important that we put every effort into ensure that we be as well protect as possible against hostile act from both state and non - state actor . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the US Defence Secretary , Pete Hegseth , have this week announce the step back of US counter - cyber measure against Russia . this incredibly concern decision by the Americans threaten not only their cyber - security , but our own . the russian Government have be accuse of orchestrate a widespread campaign of interference and disinformation that seek to undermine the global order . in 2020 , the UK Parliament ' s Intelligence and Security Committee state that the Government have underestimate the response require to the russian threat . can the Minister tell we what further measure the Government be take to protect british democracy , and will he commit to publish the full , unredacted Russia report ? we be fully alive to the threat pose by russian cyber - attack . I mention in my previous answer the threat from state and non - state actor , and there be sometimes a threat from state - back actor against our public infrastructure . we will work as hard as possible to protect our institution against such attack , and our intelligence co - operation with the United States remain a very important part of our defence . Cyber - security what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen cyber - security . the Government be take action to strengthen our cyber - security and protect our digital economy . the Home Office have launch a public consultation on proposal to tackle ransomware — one of the most malicious type of attack — to protect UK business , improve report and strike a blow against those who use this model of organised crime . however , this be a major challenge , as I have say , and it be an ongoing battle against those who seek to we do harm , to extort money and to undermine the delivery of crucial public service . I share some of the concern express by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . last week I speak to business and official work on Ukraine ' s critical national infrastructure , who be on the frontline of russian cyber - attack . they tell I that , since the invasion , there have be cyber - attack on virtually every aspect of ukrainian life , and highlight the scope of the damage they have do to civilian and military operation . can my right hon . friend say a little more about how we be learn the lesson from this conflict and what we be do to protect our own national infrastructure from russian cyber - attack ? the Government be help Ukraine ' s cyber - defender to detect , disrupt and deter russian cyber - attack . the programme be back by £ 16 million of UK funding , use world - lead expertise from both the private and the public sector to protect Ukraine ' s critical national infrastructure . we understand that the protection of cyber - asset be part of modern warfare , and we be provide this help for Ukraine , just as we have supply it with a large number of weapon over the past three year . I call the shadow Minister . ByteDance , the company that own TikTok , be require as a chinese company to have an in - house Chinese Communist party committee . we all know that attack from China on our national infrastructure as well as on our cyber - network be become increasingly common , and it be clear that element of the chinese Government be behind they . yet , astonishingly , the Government be still fail to fully declare ministerial meeting with tiktok representative . will the Minister ensure that meeting with tiktok executive be declare by Government Ministers alongside other senior medium executive registration , give tiktok ' s huge presence in the medium space , the massive public influence it have and the know cyber - risk pose by this chinese platform ? there be a well - establish process for transparency about meeting between Government Ministers and outside organisation , and TikTok will be treat in the same way as anyone else . public procurement : support for sme what step he be take to support small and medium - sized enterprise in public procurement . what step he be take to support small and medium - sized enterprise in public procurement . what step he be take to support small and medium - sized enterprise in public procurement . what step he be take to support small and medium - sized enterprise in public procurement . what step he be take to support small business in public procurement . what step he be take to support small and medium - sized enterprise in public procurement . what step he be take to support small and medium - sized enterprise in public procurement . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will answer question 4 , 7 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 17 and 20 together — while the rest of the ministerial team go and have a cup of tea . the wide - range interest in this topic show just how much the £ 400 billion spend on procurement in the public sector matter for growth and for community across the UK . I be recently in Grimsby , where small business be deliver local growth , innovate and provide more than half of local employment . mp know that sme be vital for provide local employment in their community . under the previous Government , however , we become overly reliant on large consultant and a small number of big company . we have too often end up lock into expensive , poor perform contract , with company able to drive up price in closed market . that have to change . the new national procurement policy statement ask the public sector to maximise procurement spend with small and medium - sized enterprise , and the Government be lead the way by set ambitious public target for Departments on spend on sme . I be glad that I be at the front of this particular queue , Mr Speaker . right across the country we have amazing , cut - edge business , such as Great Wave AI , a start - up in my constituency that be already help the Government to take advantage of AI . it want to grow fast and do more work with Government Departments . what work be the Minister do to ensure that small british start - up can play their part in the AI revolution in government , not just mega company such as Meta , Microsoft and Google ? we have be absolutely clear that there be huge opportunity for AI to support the public sector to well personalise service and save money , but we have to keep up with the speed of innovation in how we buy . I have hear from sme specialise in AI and digital transformation that the way we be do procurement be too slow and too inflexible to keep up with that pace . that be why I be work with the Minister for AI and Digital Government , my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , to set up a new digital commercial centre for excellence to make sure that that change , and that we have the good innovation from my hon . friend ' s constituency and across the country in Government . last year , Luton airport invest £ 110 million in local business . it know the value of business , particularly small and medium - sized enterprise , in place like Luton . every weekend , I do a small business Saturday shout - out . what can we do to ensure that small business in Luton get a fair crack of the whip when it come to public sector procurement ? it be brilliant to hear about my hon . friend ' s leadership in support small business and the work they be do in her constituency . we be absolutely determined that sme should have that fair crack . the new national procurement policy statement ask we to maximise spend with small business . it also set stretch and transparent target for each Department , which will be bring to the House . we will be hold to account for deliver on they . the target in the national procurement policy statement for Government Departments to buy from british sme be to be strongly welcome . the benefit will be long term , with broad and essential source of investment , and we will improve our economy ' s domestic resilience . bus manufacturing be an area that need domestic resilience , with over 100 job recently lose in the Falkirk area because the previous Government fail to support british bus . at the bus expert panel next week , do the Minister expect a general increase in domestic procurement follow the update national procurement policy statement ? as soon as I see my hon . friend ' s name on the Order Paper , I know that he would mention bus , because he have never miss an opportunity to raise this critical issue with I . the Government be absolutely committed to support the UK ' s domestic bus manufacturing industry and ensure that the procurement system recognise the high standard and quality of UK manufacturer . the new national procurement policy statement align with our industrial strategy and push we to maximise spend with sme . as a result , contract authority across the country must now consider how their procurement strategy can support the industrial strategy , include the bus manufacturing strategy . recent figure show that hundred of small business have be open up across Ipswich , and I be proud that we be now rank in the top 10 of area in the country where the number of sme be grow . however , I be ambitious for my town and want to go far . what step be the Government take to ensure that , as part of our skill agenda , young people in town such as Ipswich have the chance to find skilled , long - term , well - pay employment with sme , and , in do so , boost public procurement and our local economy ? there be so much young talent in Ipswich and in community across the country , but too many young people be struggle to get on to the employment ladder , and we know the scar impact that that can have on their life . we need to ensure that the £ 400 billion spend on public procurement mean something in community such as Ipswich . we be streamline how we measure social and economic value so that there be a very clear ask that be link to our mission , include the opportunity mission , to deliver job and skill to young people out of work . we be ask those who win Government contract to advertise in local jobcentre so that people in Ipswich and community across the UK can benefit from Government contract . in January it be report that nearly 7 , 000 construction firm be on the brink of insolvency — that be on top of the 4 , 000 that fold last year . a major cause of this be payment delay by large contractor . give that project bank account , which protect against payment delay , be use by only some Departments , will the Minister act where the previous Government fail to do so and introduce these account across all Departments ? I really welcome this question . it be so important to small business that they be pay on time — I have hear time and again that late payment threaten their very existence . the construction playbook state that project bank account " should be use unless there be compelling reason not to . " we be determined to crack down on late payment . we have announce regular spot check on prompt payment throughout our supply chain , and in the Budget the Chancellor say that the Government will be require to exclude supplier from bid for major contract if they can not demonstrate that they pay within an average of 45 day . I welcome my hon . friend ' s work on this matter , and I very much enjoy meet she to discuss it . I know that she have build a wide coalition , and I hope we can continue to work together on these important issue . pathway Care Farm be an amazing charity in Lowestoft that support people with disability , those with mental health issue and ex - offender to get back on their foot by work with animal and grow food . the charity have excellent outcome , particularly with help people to get work - ready and improve their health , but it find it hard to access opportunity for public contract , such as social prescribing , because it be so small . do the Minister agree that organisation in the voluntary , community and social enterprise sector and charity such as pathway have an important role to play in provide solution for the public sector ? I wholeheartedly agree . my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) take I to a similar farm in her constituency that have be set up by an ex - prison officer . I have to say that it be one of the most enjoyable visit I have have — it be great for my mental health to feed some alpaca and goat . I have hear powerful story about how social prescribing have change life , from end chronic loneliness to help individual such as a man I meet recently , who have find his first stable home in his 50 . the new npps specifically ask contract authority to maximise spend with voluntary sector organisation , and we will be introduce target for Government on spend with voluntary sector organisation and social enterprise . the Government have listen to concern from local authority and be work to implement change to allow they to reserve competition for low - value contract for local organisation . last but not least , Mr Speaker . the mass grouping of these question on this subject prove the failure of the previous Government to get a grip on this particular issue . can the Minister reassure I , and sme such as WJ Structures and Rothwells Paper in my constituency , that this Government will take step to simplify the process , thereby keep the pound local instead of contract go to multinational ? I very much welcome these question — I could happily speak about procurement all day , because it be absolutely critical for deliver the Government ' s mission . the Procurement Act 2023 remove some of these challenge , but we need to do more . that be why we be set ambitious and stretch target for direct spend on sme and have ask official to review our framework contract , in particular , to ensure that they be more accessible to sme . the challenge raise by business in my hon . friend ' s constituency be the same as those I have hear describe by sme across the country — our procurement be too complex and too slow , and it need to change . we need to get that £ 400 billion into real job and sme in our community . I congratulate the Government Whips ' Office — [ Laughter . ] what discussion have be have with the Crown Commercial Service regard Romeo Mike 6277 network — RM6277 ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I look forward to spend another day with he in the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill Committee later . I have regular discussion with the Crown Commercial Service on a range of issue . give that public sector procurement account for a third of all public sector spending , what step be the Minister take to ensure that it be less siloe , more join up , and as efficient as the private sector ? that be such an important question . we need to deliver value for money in how we do procurement . one change that we make in the new national procurement policy statement be ensure that contracting authority procure collaboratively , crack down on some of the excessive cost of private framework and ensure that they be transparent . we be use AI to streamline procurement , and have set up a new commercial innovation challenge at the heart of government to ensure buying support innovation and growth . infected Blood Compensation Scheme what recent progress he have make on establish an infected blood compensation scheme . last month , I lay regulation , which , subject to parliamentary approval , will give the Infected Blood Compensation Authority the power that it need to pay compensation to all eligible people by all route . my aim be for the regulation to be in force by 31 March to enable ibca to begin payment to all eligible group this year . last year , I be contact by a constituent who tragically lose her husband to infect blood and I be continue to support she . there be an understandable lack of trust between victim and the authority after such a long wait for justice , and my constituent be concern about the urgency in compensate affected family . when he speak in the House last month , the Minister commit to produce an easy - read version of the regulation . can he say when that be likely to be publish and will he commit to full transparency on the progress of settle claim ? I will publish a simplified version of the document explain the infected blood compensation scheme by the end of the month . transparency be vital . ibca , although an independent body , be commit to be open with the community and publish monthly figure show progress on compensation claim . I welcome the Minister ' s progress in this area . I visit ibca on 30 January and be impress by the professionalism of the team . since then the Minister have make himself accessible so that I can give he feedback . one issue that have come up be the need for recipient of payment to sign non - disclosure agreement or term . I be anxious that misunderstanding do not arise as a consequence of that . can the Minister use his good office to implore ibca to explain why that happen ? if ibca can not do that , perhaps he can explain to the House why such agreement might be necessary . I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his work as Paymaster General . indeed , I be pleased to facilitate his recent visit to IBCA and be grateful to he for the constructive approach that he continue to take . on the specific issue that he raise around the contract that IBCA have enter into , I can say that I entirely agree with he about the need for transparency , and that be something that I be re - emphasise to ibca . devolve administration what step he be take to strengthen co - operation with the devolved administration . since enter government , we have reset working relation with the devolved government and I be now work to support those effort . all three tier of the intergovernmental structure be in operation . several of the portfolio - level inter - ministerial group have meet , while the middle tier inter - ministerial Standing Committee and finance inter - ministerial Standing Committee both meet last Thursday . the top - tier meeting between the Prime Minister and the Heads of the devolved government also meet alongside the Council of the Nations and Regions in October . of course those formal structure be not the sum total of our engagement , as we continue to collaborate closely on issue affect citizen in all part of the country . although much of public service delivery be devolve , all four nation face a share challenge of reform these service in a tight fiscal environment . what can the nation learn from one another about reform these service , and do the Minister agree that it be important that they do learn from one another ? my hon . friend raise a key and important challenge . in every part of these island , public service need both resource and reform give the Government ' s inheritance back in July . the UK Health Secretary have set out ambitious plan to roll out new AI technology , upgrade the NHS app and reform the healthcare system to bring down waiting list . last week , my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster meet devolve Government Ministers to discuss public service reform , datum sharing and harness work on public service reform across these island . relation with the EU what step he be take to improve relation with the European Union . a close , more co - operative relationship with the EU be in the UK ' s national interest as it will grow the economy , boost living standard , protect our border and keep the UK safe . I be take forward discussion with my EU counterpart Commissioner Maro š Š ef č ovi č . the UK - EU leader summit on 19 May will be an important opportunity to drive forward this agenda . Palmerston say that this country have no eternal ally and no perpetual enemy , only interest which be eternal and perpetual . do the Minister agree that it be in our eternal interest for there to be security in Europe and a sovereign Ukraine ? will he congratulate the Prime Minister on his statesmanship and leadership at this dangerous moment ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate the Prime Minister on the careful and consider leadership he be show at a time when we face a once - in - a - generation moment for the collective security of our country and our continent . we remain absolutely committed to secure a last peace in Ukraine . on 2 March , the Prime Minister host international leader in London to discuss support for Ukraine . as he say , " we will never choose between either side of the Atlantic … the past week have show that that idea be totally unserious . " — [ Official Report , 3 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 25 . ] we be step up on defence and security , and we know that Europe be step up , too . last week , I be in Ukraine , where , follow Trump ' s betrayal , the need for european solidarity to defend our democracy have never be more evident . the unintended consequence of Brexit for our economy and our security be certainly very real . it be increasingly obvious that the UK can not afford the luxury of splendid isolation . in the spirit of nothing be off the table , will the Minister ' s Department start a discussion in government about the UK move to customs union and single market membership ? the close and the quick we align with our european partner , the safe we will all be . I always think the SNP ' s policy be one of splendid isolation , but that be certainly not the UK Government ' s policy . indeed , we be work very closely with our european partner . that be precisely the leadership that the Prime Minister have be show in the past week . I call the shadow Minister . we appear , regrettably , to be witness the start of a global trade war . over the past week , the United States have place tariff on some of its major trading partner , and they have retaliate in kind . the President have say that he intend to place tariff of 25 % on EU good soon . should that happen , it be highly likely that the EU will respond . even if the United Kingdom be to avoid tariff , the consequence for Northern Ireland could be particularly complex . what conversation have the Paymaster General have with his european counterpart to ensure that Northern Ireland be not catch in the crossfire of a trade war ? first , we have a strong and proud tradition over century of free trade here in the United Kingdom , and we will continue to make the case for that . with regard to our specific trading relationship with the United States , the hon . Gentleman will have see that , after conversation between the Prime Minister and the President in the Oval Office last Thursday , we wish to deepen our trading relationship with the United States . specifically on Northern Ireland , I completely understand his point , and we will continue to monitor the impact of any such policy on Northern Ireland . I be grateful to the Paymaster General for his response , but it sound as though he have not yet have any conversation with his EU counterpart on the issue . I appreciate that he have a meeting on 19 May , but I be sure he will understand that tariff may come much soon than that . that be the case , will he undertake , first , to talk to his european counterpart and secondly , to come and give a statement to this House as soon as he have do so , so that we can understand that the Government be prepare for such an eventuality ? can he also make it clear to our friend in Europe that should trade and manufacturing be disrupt in Northern Ireland , we will not hesitate to use our power under article 16 of the Windsor framework to protect business there ? to reassure the hon . Gentleman , the Windsor framework taskforce be base in the Cabinet Office and I regularly discuss issue on Northern Ireland with my european counterpart . I can assure he that I will speak to Maro š Š ef č ovi č on a number of occasion prior to 19 May . I hope the hon . Gentleman will take that reassurance . he should also be reassure that we will , of course , always act in the good interest of the people of Northern Ireland . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . two week ago , I be glad to read report in the Times that the Government intend to introduce a youth mobility scheme between the UK and the EU . that would be good for our economy , while provide young british people with the opportunity to work and study abroad . that be what the british public want , with new polling show that more than two third of the UK population be in favour of such a scheme , but last week the Home Secretary rule it out . will the Minister do the right thing , remove the unnecessary barrier face young people in the UK and commit to negotiation on an EU - UK youth mobility scheme ? the position of the Government be unchanged ; we have no plan for a youth mobility scheme . we will , of course , always listen to sensible proposal from the EU , but they have to be within our red line of no return to freedom of movement , no return to the single market and no return to the custom union . plan for Change what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s plan for change . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s plan for change . I be pleased to report to the House that we be make progress in deliver our plan for change . after year of rise NHS waiting list under the Conservatives , those waiting list be now fall and last month we announce that we have meet our first step pledge to deliver 2 million additional NHS appointment seven month early . in addition to that , the first 750 breakfast club will open in April to help child get the good start to their learning day , and our new criminal justice legislation be be introduce to protect the public from crime and antisocial behaviour , include the introduction of respect order target at know troublemaker in our local community . I thank the Minister for that answer . I be proud to vote for the £ 22 . 6 billion increase in NHS spending , which mean that we be get 2 million more appointment seven month early and that waiting list be come down . of course , there be still a long way to go and the british public deserve to know that every penny of that extra investment be be spend as efficiently as possible . will the Minister update the House on what the Government ' s plan be to reform the NHS to ensure that every single penny be spend wisely ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the additional resource for the NHS be only make possible by the Budget propose by my right hon . friend the Chancellor back in October . my hon . friend be also right to say that as more money go into the NHS , there be a duty to ensure that that be match by reform . the 10 - year health plan will set out how we will deliver an NHS by create a reformed and modern health service to ensure that the extra investment result in fast and more convenient treatment for patient , because that be what we all want to see . over the last 14 year , my Camborne , Redruth and Hayle constituency have see child poverty rise . a third of secondary school child be now persistently absent from school , educational attainment be below the national average and life expectancy have actually fall . those be 14 year of abject failure , for which my constituent will never forgive the conservative party . do the Minister agree that the true test of success of our plan for change and a decade of renewal should be measure in the positive change to the life of our poor community ? my hon . friend put it well . the mission that we have set out be focus on deliver long - term and ambitious outcome that will make a meaningful difference to people ' s life . specifically on the issue he raise on child poverty and the good start in life , the plan for change have a specific target to close the development gap between child who be start school , and to ensure that more child be ready to start school and to learn and to give they the opportunity that education can bring . our aim be that people from all background can benefit from those policy , and that be why the plan for change will make a real difference to people ' s live in all part of the country . Ministerial Appointments whether the Cabinet Secretary have issue guidance on ministerial appointment . the Cabinet Secretary may be ask by the Prime Minister to advise on any matter support the smooth running of government , include ministerial appointment . there be no write or publish guidance on such matter . since July , three Ministers have have to resign for everything from fraud through to unwise entanglement in foreign affair . what step will the Minister take to strengthen the ministerial code so that the public can have confidence in the Ministers that this Prime Minister appoint ? we have strengthen the ministerial code , but we do not need to take any advice from the Conservatives . what we have see from this Prime Minister be decisive action to uphold ministerial standard . compare that with the record of the previous Government where the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , be find guilty of bullying but be allow to keep she post ; where the Government whip their mp to block the suspension of former Minister Owen Paterson , who break lobbying rule ; and where the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson lie about be tell of allegation of sexual misconduct by his Deputy Chief Whip . I call the shadow Minister . despite the complacent response from the Minister , few than 250 day in , we have already have a Transport Secretary resign over her criminal record , an anti - corruption Minister resign over corruption , question raise over the check on the new Investment Minister , and at least three Cabinet Ministers accuse of peddle dodgy cv . the Prime Minister either can not or will not say whether the necessary question be not ask on appointment , whether relevant information be not disclose on appointment , or whether he know perfectly well about it but only take action when they be catch ? will the independent adviser conduct an urgent review of ministerial vetting ? the Prime Minister be determined to uphold high standard of conduct in public office , unlike the previous Government . that be why decisive action have be take . this be a Government in the service of work people , and we will not hesitate to take action against any Minister who fail to meet those high standard . National Resilience what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . we be take action to strengthen the UK ' s resilience . next month , the UK Resilience Academy will formally launch with the capacity to train over 4 , 000 people a year . later this year , we will undertake a full national pandemic response exercise — the first of its kind in nearly a decade . of course , resilience have to protect the most vulnerable , so we be map vulnerability around the country to ensure that in our resilience strategy we can protect people from all background and of all income . the covid inquiry find that year of under - investment under the Conservatives mean that our health service be already struggle to cope even before covid strike , with waiting list rise year before the pandemic . do my right hon . friend agree that invest in our NHS and tackle the terrible delay that patient , include many of my constituent in Stevenage , experience in receive treatment be vital to improve our country ' s resilience ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point not just to specific resilience measure but the most fundamental thing for national resilience : the underlying strength of the country and its service . nowhere be that more true that in the national health service . we be invest in the national health service and be already see the early result of that , with the first fall in NHS waiting list for year . it be a good start ; it be not enough , and we want to build on that progress to treat patient more quickly and , indeed , build our resilience in the process . Government advertising : Social Media what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of Government advertising through social medium . the Government regularly evaluate the effectiveness of all communication channel , include social medium , to ensure that they be deliver and provide value for money for taxpayer , and that Government message appear in appropriate environment . since Elon Musk purchase X three year ago , Departments have continue to spend money on subscription and ad on the site , and one Department have record a spend of more than £ 400 , 000 since 2022 . give the lack of adequate content moderation , and an increase in the peddling of conspiracy theory , misogyny and racism on the site , often actively encourage by its owner , do the Minister think it right to review Government spending on x ? I know that my hon . friend take a keen interest in these matter . in 2023 , the previous Government suspend pay advertising on x while review alignment with our safe framework . that suspension remain in place . we continue to post content , without pay promotion , to communicate important Government information . democratic Processes : foreign Interference what step he be take to ensure the security of democratic process from foreign interference . it be an absolute priority to protect the UK ' s democratic process from foreign interference . the defend democracy taskforce have be set up to protect the democratic integrity of the UK from such interference . the Prime Minister recently reconfirm its mandate , and the Security Minister chair a meeting of the taskforce last week . as well as address foreign interference , will the Minister update we on how we can protect our own election infrastructure to safeguard against misinformation , voter suppression and cyber - attack ? we have some early exchange about cyber - attack . it be important that our democratic process uphold their integrity and that people who take part in our election exercise their choice freely and without external interference in the process . the Government be dedicate to ensure that that happen . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last Cabinet Office question , new procurement rule have come into force , which will help to deliver growth , drive value for money and , crucially , give small business great access to the nearly £ 400 billion of Government procurement . they also include strong new power to exclude and debar supplier on national security and performance ground . we be also seek out and reduce wasteful spending , include by use artificial intelligence to go through departmental spending line by line , because it be important that taxpayer fund be use for good public service outcome . we be see the initial fruit of that in the first reduction in NHS waiting list for year . woman in rural area often face additional barrier to their engagement in politic , at both local government and national Government level . the reason can vary : they may be social , cultural , structural , institutional , or often a perceive lack of knowledge . as we celebrate International Women ' s Day , what step be the Minister take to address those barrier and encourage woman in rural area to access and engage with politic ? I thank the hon . member for that important question . she be absolutely right to highlight the barrier to politic that woman in rural area can face . we want more woman in rural area and around the country to be elect to local government and to Parliament . we should be proud that this House now have its high ever number of elect woman , include many outstanding woman represent rural area , but we know that there be much more we can do . since the Labour Government come to power , the list of patient wait more than 65 week for treatment at my local hospital trust in Derby have go down by a whopping 82 % . with national waiting list have fall for four month in a row and the early delivery of the commitment to provide an additional 2 million NHS appointment , do the Minister agree that our plan for change be already under way ? how be the Department work to embed that culture of delivery right across the Government ? I be delighted to hear about the fall waiting list in my hon . friend ' s constituency . waiting list be indeed fall . last month we announce that we have meet our first step pledge to deliver 2 million additional NHS appointment seven month early . we be determined to keep up the pace of deliver our plan for change , for which the public vote . I call the shadow Secretary of State . why be the Government scare of allow the National Security Adviser to give evidence to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy ? the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster will be aware that accountability to Parliament be through Ministers . the Prime Minister be regularly accountable to Parliament , and I be very happy to appear before the Committee at any convenient time . I be sure the Committee will be delighted to hear that . however , there be a precedent in this area : David Frost , now Lord Frost , be an adviser when he give evidence to the Committee in May 2020 . the Committee be unanimous : the new adviser must appear . the Government ' s own Osmotherly rule say that Ministers should agree to a request for evidence from any " name official , include special adviser " . this Government promise great transparency . why be they break another promise ? special adviser be appoint by the Minister whom they advise , and the line of accountability be through Ministers to Parliament . that be why the Prime Minister take question every week at this Dispatch Box . the National Security Adviser be an adviser to the Prime Minister , and as I say , I be also very happy — as be other Ministers , I imagine — to appear before the Committee at a convenient time . as parliamentary chair of the Coalition on Secure Technology , I have raise several time in this House concern over the prevalence of chinese manufacture internet of thing cellular module . will the procurement review unit carry out a risk assessment of the true risk pose by chinese supply of cellular module in the UK ' s critical national infrastructure , and will he meet I to discuss this important issue ? the Government take the security of critical national infrastructure extremely seriously . the UK ' s national technical authority , include the National Protective Security Authority , the National Cyber Security Centre and the UK National Authority for Counter - Eavesdropping , already provide expert guidance and good practice to owner and operator of UK critical national infrastructure , include on risk assessment and supply chain . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . the Minister for Intergovernmental Relations be an extremely experienced Minister , so will he cause to be review the quite extraordinary decision to cut the integrated security fund by £ 120 million ? be that fund not a classic example of how development complement defence demonstrably and effectively ? will he listen to the great concern that member on his own side of the House feel at the terrible decision to axe crucial development spending ? the right hon . Gentleman have great experience in this area , and I respect his judgment very much . he will also have see the world rapidly change before our eye in recent week . the leadership task when the world be change so fast be to understand the change , respond to it and explain it . I believe that in the decision the Prime Minister have take in this area in recent week he have fulfil those obligation in full and in a way that this House be proud of . follow the recent announcement that the Smedley Hydro Government site in my constituency will close in the year to come , will the Minister work with I to ensure that the hundred of job currently base there be relocate at a new site also in the constituency ? I know how hard my hon . friend work for his constituency , and I very much understand his concern . my understanding be that there be no change expect at the Smedley Hydro site in the first instance . the Government Property Agency be actively work with the Home Office and NHS Digital to understand the future workforce requirement , but I would welcome a conversation to discuss that far . we have already hear about the cyber - attack on public body across this country . will the Cabinet Office ensure that full guideline be give to every Government Department about the procurement of software and the need for security software to be keep up to date ? the people who attack we be rapidly improve their capability , and we must be on top of it . the hon . member be absolutely right : the people who be attack we be try constantly to probe our defence , and as I have say a few time in the past hour , this be therefore a constant challenge . it be a combination of hardware , software and good practice , and that apply to central Government , local government , public body and — crucially — business . it be a national effort to protect the business that we do and the process that we take for grant every day . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . food wholesale and distribution company Bidfood , which have be award public sector contract and have a site in my constituency , recently unilaterally tear up union recognition agreement that have be in place for more than 30 year . what step be minister take to ensure that trade union recognition and access be value and consider as part of the process of award public sector contract ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this critical issue . the Employment Rights Bill will introduce new measure that will give staff and their choose trade union a meaningful shot at gain statutory recognition . I hope those provision will ensure that GMB Union member across the country can have their voice hear in their workplace . in a speech in December , the Minister say that he want to put bureaucracy on more of a " start - up " foot with a Silicon Valley vibe , and that in order to achieve that he be go to send team — indeed , not just team , but crack team — to Manchester , Liverpool , Sheffield and Essex in order to test , learn , and fix by Friday . I have a simple question : in those three month , how many of those crack team have go in , what have they test , what have they learn , and what have they fix by Friday ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for read my speech so closely , but what he have misunderstood be that the team be on the ground , and the process be to learn every week . I be glad to report that I have already visit a couple of those area , and good work be under way . the whole point be that this will develop , it will adapt , and perhaps it will be different from the record of the conservative party , which see a growth of 131 , 000 public official over the last — order . I know we have mention Thursday and Friday , but I think we be on Sunday already . the York Central development site be pivotal in drive forward York and North Yorkshire ' s economy , and at the heart of that site will be a Government hub . will the Minister meet I to ensure that that hub be not separate from the rest of the site , but integrate in the economic vision that we have for York ? it be critical that Government property and government asset support economic growth in constituency , include that of my hon . friend , and I would be delighted to meet she to discuss that far . to great fanfare the Government cancel the previous Government ' s contract for ministerial travel by helicopter , describe £ 40 million as " grossly wasteful " . we now learn that the Government have sign their own contract for ministerial helicopter travel , but it be a secret contract — so secret that we do not know how much it will cost . will the Minister confirm whether it will cost more or less than £ 40 million ? I think on this one I have well write to the hon . Gentleman . local people across my constituency have say how much they value and welcome the vast investment that we have see in our public service , from our NHS to our school and beyond . will the Minister please set out what step be also be take to reform our public service , work with other Cabinet colleague ? as I have say a few time this morning , reform be important , particularly when the taxpayer be be ask to put in extra investment . that be true in school as well as in the NHS , because we want to ensure that teacher can do what they want to do , which be teach child in the classroom . that be also why the good start in life be one of the target in the Government ' s plan for change , which be publish in December . during their eight month in government , what assessment have the ministerial team make of the productivity of the civil service ? what measure be they put in place to improve it , and will the Minister report back to the House ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the work that he do on public sector productivity . it be probably essential give that in the eight year between 2016 and 2024 the previous Government employ an extra 131 , 000 civil servant , so it be quite right that we look at the productivity for the extra employment sanction by the last Government . do the Minister have an appetite for a policy of like - for - like retaliation when a cyber - attack by a hostile state be confirm ? I have both appetite and full faith in our excellent intelligence and security service , who protect we every day . that complete question — after Jim Shannon . the good be always last . what assessment have the Minister make of the volume of apprenticeship offer within the cyber - security industry , specifically in relation to digital software and hack prevention online ? we want to see more apprenticeship . the number have come down , compare with where they should be . the area that the hon . Gentleman highlight would be a very good and fruitful one for people to learn more about and get the skill they need . Speaker ' s Statement before we come to business question I be sorry to have to pass on the sad news that a long - stand colleague , Peter Hipkins , pass away at the weekend after a short illness . Peter devote 52 year of service to the House of Commons , latterly work in service delivery in the Palace , ensure the paper be always deliver correctly and on time . he previously work as an attendant in Norman Shaw North and 3 Dean ' s Yard . during his work life , he be know and well think of at all level of Parliament , from the colleague he work with to the thousand of Members he ensure could go about their duty and all the public and visitor to Parliament . he will be miss . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I shall . the business for the week commence 10 March include : Monday 10 March — Second reading of the Crime and Policing Bill . Tuesday 11 March — remain stage of the Employment Rights Bill , day one . Wednesday 12 March — remain stage of the Employment Rights Bill , day two . Thursday 13 March — general debate on the future of farming , follow by a general debate on mental health support in educational setting . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 14 March — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 17 March will include : Monday 17 March — remain stage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , day one . Tuesday 18 March — remain stage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , day two . Wednesday 19 March — consideration of Lords amendment to the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , follow by Opposition day , first allotted day , second part : debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Thursday 20 March — general debate on knife crime among child and young people , follow by a general debate on coastal community . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 21 March — the House will not be sit . Mr Speaker , may I first associate myself very strongly with your kind remark about Peter Hipkins and his service to this House ? we join all colleague in celebration of International Women ' s Day this Saturday . I be sure the whole House will also share my deep concern at the late news in relation to Ukraine and will wish to send all of our good wish to the Prime Minister and other european leader in do everything they can to support that country . it be now three month or so since I become shadow Leader of the House , and I be sad to say that these joyous Thursday morning session seem to have fall into a little bit of a rut . [ interruption . ] " no , no ! " , I hear you cry , " business question be still as fresh , lively and engaging as they ever be , if not more so , " but sadly I fear that be not true . it be our function on the Opposition Benches to press public concern and raise question about the Government — indeed , as his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , it be not only our function , but our constitutional duty to do so . it be the Government ' s job to respond to those question and concern and , in so do , to make the case publicly for the policy choice and decision they have make and to say whether they have an underlying strategy . unfortunately , as you will have notice , Mr Speaker , the Government be not do that in our session . in fact , the Leader of the House rarely , if ever , respond to the important public question and concern that I raise . instead , I be sorry to say that we get the same endlessly reheat mishmash of standard party political line , personal jibe and irrelevant comment . hon . member will recall that I first raise this issue at business question on 5 December , when I highlight a series of occasion on which the Leader have be unwilling to answer or even address some obvious example of government economic incompetence . as I point out : " many different response be open to she . she could have say , ' I agree with you . ' " — [ Official Report , 5 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 458 . ] she could have say , " the shadow Leader be wrong for the follow reason , " or even , " I don ' t know . " if she do not want to respond at that time , she could have say , as so many other Ministers do , " I will look into it , " " I will reply to you , " or , " I will ask a colleague to investigate and respond " . we just hear the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster say those thing . in fact , on none of those occasion do the Leader of the House bother to give any kind of proper answer at all . instead , her approach be to change the subject and attack the previous Government , rather than to defend the record of her own government — which be , after all , the whole point of these exchange . more troubling still be that she herself have so often call for transparency from Ministers , and that a failure to be accountable be itself a breach of the rule of this House , of the nolan principle and of the ministerial code of conduct . I wish I could report that anything have change since December . if anything , however , I be afraid that matter have get bad . a recent low point be at business question on 13 February , when I raise five important issue relate to the Government ' s approach to the rule of law , include the potential clash between domestic and international law , the level of risk that the Government seek to take and their attitude towards judicial review . I be sorry to say that the Leader of the House do not bother to respond to any of those question : instead , we have yet another series of irrelevant political attack . we need a well way to track and monitor those evasion , so , in the spirit of openness and transparency , I propose a new approach , which we can call " Leader ' s bingo " . colleague get a point every time the Leader of the House blame the previous Government , attack member of the opposition , change the subject or use the word " gently remind " , " take no lecture " or similar in her response . I would not for one second suggest that colleague shout " Bingo ! " in the Chamber , but there may be other way in which they can indicate when they have fill their card . that be a light - hearted suggestion , but it have a serious purpose . I know how strongly you , Mr Speaker , feel about the importance of parliamentary accountability , transparency and the proper scrutiny of government decision . I ask the Leader of the House again if she will reaffirm her commitment to those value and engage properly with the question I ask in the future . I join you , Mr Speaker , in pass on our condolence to the family of Peter Hipkins , who give long service in this House . I also wish peace and blessing to those observe Ramadan and those mark Lent . today be also World Book Day , a day to celebrate our favourite book and author — and , I have to say , every work parent ' s bad nightmare , because of have to find a last - minute costume . I see that the shadow Leader of the House have come as his favourite author : himself . for those who have not read the thrilling historical novel , " the Winding Stair " , it be still available in all good bookshop . he can give I some royalty later . Saturday mark International Women ' s Day . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for allow we to come together in this Chamber and take a historic photograph to mark the most female mps ever be elect to this House . it be a reminder that the gender pay gap in this country be still 13 . 1 % , and woman work for free on average seven week a year — although perhaps the shadow Leader of the House be work for free most of the time . I thank the shadow Leader of the House for his comment on Ukraine . it have be really important to this country ' s international role and in support the Prime Minister that the House of Commons have once again show such unity , and such backing for Ukraine and for the Prime Minister ' s leadership in recent week . as the shadow Leader of the House know , we be focus on make sure that Ukraine be in the strong possible position to achieve long - term , last peace through strength . as we have do in recent week , we will make sure that the House be keep constantly update on these matter . that be kind of where it end today , Mr Speaker . the shadow Leader of the House have again use his slot to ask I not a single question . he say that I have not give he any answer in any of the week that we have be stand at the Dispatch Box , but if he really want I to tell he again today where he have go wrong , I be happy to give he some advice . I be happy to tell he that yes , his Government do get many thing wrong , and we be get many thing right . if the shadow Leader of the House want to play business question bingo , perhaps we can start by say " Bingo ! " every time he actually ask I a question , because we do not hear much of that today . there be lot of people in the Chamber for business question today , so I will not detain the House for much long , but I notice that the shadow Leader of the House do not ask I about some of the really good thing that the Government have be do here at home , as well as abroad . as there be a lot of people here today , I remind the House that we have confirm the first 750 school that will receive free breakfast club , because we do not want any child to start school hungry . we be end the 8 am scramble in our GP surgery , with more appointment and well access . we have launch our fantastic commonhold White Paper , which be another step towards finally end the feudal leasehold system , and we be deal with the court backlog that the shadow Leader of the House ' s Government leave we with — another shameful reminder of their shocking record on criminal justice . we have also announce our plan for neighbourhood , with another £ 1 . 5 billion to help restore pride in our community . that be on top of the additional amendment to our Employment Rights Bill . unlike the shadow Leader of the House ' s vacuous contribution today , this Government be get on with deliver for the country , whether at home or abroad . flooding have cause heartache for family and community in my constituency . in order to be protect from extreme flooding , they desperately need Sheffield city council ' s excellent proposal for the upper Don flood alleviation scheme , include work on the Clough Dike culvert and Whitley Brook improvement . despite widespread local support and the importance of that scheme , the Conservatives never actually allocate funding to it . will the Leader of the House allow time to debate flood alleviation scheme , to ensure that the appropriate funding be allocate in the forthcoming spending review ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; the flood asset we inherit be in the poor condition on record after many year of under - investment . that be why we be put more money into flood asset and have launch the flood resilience taskforce . I will ensure that my hon . friend be keep update on how those thing will affect her constituency . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as the Leader of the House have already note , today be World Book Day , and I would like to say a big thank you to Barnes Farm primary school in my constituency for invite I in yesterday to open its brand new library . one in seven state primary school in the UK do not have a dedicated library or read space , and almost 1 million child in the UK do not have a book of their own . as such , it be wonderful to meet year 5 student and representative of Barnes Farm student council , who be very enthusiastic about their new library . it be fantastic to know that those student will have access to such a facility for a long time to come . at Prime Minister ' s question on 8 January , I raise the plight of community pharmacy . they be struggle to stay afloat due to the unfair term of their NHS contract , which often mean that they have to buy drug that they dispense for more than the NHS reimburse they . the Prime Minister ask I to follow up with more detail , which I do that afternoon . despite chase , I be yet to receive a reply from the Department of Health and Social Care , to which my inquiry be pass . community pharmacy can not wait . the National Pharmacy Association project that nearly 1 , 000 pharmacy will close by the end of 2027 . there be no guarantee funding for Pharmacy First beyond the end of this month . this be a critical issue that the Government need to address urgently . I know that the Leader of the House take seriously the timeliness of reply from Ministers and Departments , so will she let the House know what further step she be take to ensure that issue such as protect our vital community pharmacy be give the swift and full attention they deserve ? I thank the hon . member for raise these matter with I . first , I concur with what she say on World Book Day and school library . I be sure that , as Members of Parliament , we have open a library in a school . I recently open a library at a school in one of the poor part of my constituency , and the young child , many of whom be not even wear proper footwear , be queue outside to get their hand on their first book — it be such a fantastic achievement . I be sorry to hear that she have not have the response and reply she have ask for from Ministers , and I do take these matter incredibly seriously . I will ensure that she do get a reply . the hon . Member have raise the issue of community pharmacy with I on a number of occasion , and rightly so . they be a vital part of our national health service , and they have be leave on their knee , with many close in recent year . we be turn that around , because get service back into community via pharmacy and other mean be critical to deliver our health mission . I will ensure she get a reply . this be on flood again , I be afraid . my constituency have suffer greatly from flooding in recent year . our steep valley and wide moorland catchment make we particularly vulnerable . I massively welcome the Government ' s commitment to a record £ 2 . 65 billion of funding for flood defence . we have a number of key scheme in Rossendale and Darwen that urgently need that funding , and I be in communication with the Department about that . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on flood resilience and support for community affect so badly by flood ? my hon . friend be a great advocate for his constituency on this and other matter . flooding affect his area , as it do many other . as I have say , this Government be finally turn the oil tanker around when it come to our flood resilience . I will ensure that the relevant Minister hear his call today . we have have regular statement and debate on flooding , but I will ensure that we continue to have they . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . Mr Speaker , I thank you and your deputy for facilitate the estimate day debate yesterday and allow the maximum number of people to contribute . when we come to the full estimate — in May , we believe — if we can be advise of the date so that we can do the processing of the application , that would be appreciate . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , if we be give Thursday 27 March , there will be a debate on St Patrick ' s day and Northern Irish affair , follow by a debate on the 10th anniversary of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . we now have a queue of debate for the Chamber that will last until the summer recess . we will be grateful for every Thursday and any time that can be give , particularly if the House be go to rise early on Government business . in addition , the business in Westminster Hall on Tuesday 11 March will include a debate on the governance of English rugby union . on Thursday 13 March , there will be a debate on educational opportunity for young carer . on Tuesday 18 March — with your agreement , Mr Speaker — there will be a debate on free school meal . on Thursday 20 March , there will be a debate on british Sign Language Week and Government support for the tourism industry . on Tuesday 25 March , there will be a debate on the retrospective accountability of the construction industry . on Thursday 27 March , there will be a debate on the prevention of drug death , follow by a debate on the first anniversary of the Hughes report on valproate and pelvic mesh . yesterday , the External Affairs Minister from India , Shri Jaishankar , be attack when he be leave a public venue where he have be address an audience of indian people in this country . he be attack by Khalistani thug . that be against the Geneva convention , and it appear that the police and the security force fail to ensure that he be make safe . that be an affront to democracy , and an affront to our friend and ally in India . we need to make sure that do not happen again . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Home Secretary or an appropriate Minister make a statement to the House about what protection we will have to ensure that visitor to this country be safe ? I thank the hon . gentleman for organise the estimate day this week , and all the other debate . I be sure he will appreciate that I have be generous , much more than my predecessor on some occasion , in give he notice both of estimate debate and of slot for Backbench Business . I have hear his plea today for as many of those as possible , and I will look kindly on it , as I have do previously . I be very sorry to hear about what sound like a serious attack on a visitor to this country from the Indian Parliament . that be unacceptable and not the way in which we want our visitor to be treat , and I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman receive a full response from the Home Secretary . may I first wish the Leader of the House a happy International Women ' s Day for Saturday ? my constituent Chris be among many people affect by the loan charge , which apply to " disguised remuneration " scheme . while everyone should pay their fair share of tax , many , like Chris , use these scheme in good faith when they be legal and now face retrospective penalty . the Government ' s long - await review be a welcome step , but Chris and many other who have be affect feel that its scope be too limited . they believe that it fail to examine how we get here , its implementation , or those who promote and mis - sell these scheme . will the Leader of the House allocate time for a full debate on the loan charge and its consequence ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this serious matter . I recognise the concern about the loan charge scheme , as do the Government , and we be commit to ensure that there be a fair resolution for those affect . we do not believe it be right for they to face year of uncertainty , which be why , as my hon . Friend say , we have establish an independent review . it be tightly focused so that we can get the report out before the summer , with a Government response , and I will ensure that the House be keep fully up to date on that . rise — order . many member be here for the International Women ' s Day debate , so I expect to run business question until about midday . the Budget turn the world , or at least the future of family farm , upside down . ever since then , we have see mount evidence of the impact that the change to inheritance tax , business property relief and agricultural property relief will have on family farm . that evidence have come from the industry , from industry expert and from tax expert . there be also mount concern among Government Back Benchers about the impact that the change will have on farmer in their constituency up and down the country , and that concern be reflect on our own Benches . give the impact on family farm and the future of food security in the country , will the Leader of the House please consider grant a debate in the Chamber on the family farm tax and what we can do to mitigate its impact ? this government back british farmer , which be why we have increase the farming budget to £ 5 billion over two year , much more than be provide by the last government . we have set out a deal for farmer , and we be invest in flood defence and extend the seasonal worker scheme , as well as deal with many other issue . we have already have a debate in Government time on farming , and I note that the opposition do not choose to make this matter the subject of one of their recent Opposition day debate , but they have another Opposition day come up , and they could use it for this purpose . I wish to raise a case that have be highlight by other member , include my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) . in 2017 , Jagtar Singh Johal , a british national from Dumbarton , be arrest in India just week after his wedding . he have be torture , threaten to be burn alive , and in arbitrary detention for seven year and four month . this week Jagtar be acquit in the first case to come to court , as there be no credible evidence , and his lawyer have ask for all charge to be drop because there be no new evidence . many in the Sikh community , include my constituent , welcome this development , as well as the Government ' s commitment to secure Jagtar ' s release and return . give the Prime Minister ' s and the Foreign Secretary ' s meeting in the last 48 hour with the indian Foreign Minister , will the Leader of the House provide time for an update on what step be be take to bring this british national — one of our own — home ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the case of Jagtar Singh Johal , which I know be of great importance to many member of this House . we recognise that it be a very difficult case . he will know that the Prime Minister have raise it with Prime Minister Modi , and Ministers continue to raise it on an ongoing basis , make it clear that we want to see fast progress and a full resolution to this case . as part of that , we must see a full and independent investigation into allegation of torture . I will ensure that my hon . friend and the House be keep update on this important case . it have be draw to my attention this week that there be a continue problem in this country with a reserved matter : the supply of drug . a 22 - year - old constituent of mine , who be an elite athlete and unfortunately have inoperable brain tumour , come to I to say that drug inhibitor that would help he be currently on open access trial in this country . unfortunately , the health board in my constituency be not take part , so drug that could save his life and allow he to continue with his ambition be available , but he can not access they . would the Leader of the House either consider have a debate on how we make access to drug on trial universal across the UK , or set up a meeting for I with the relevant Minister to discuss this issue ? I be really sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s constituent , and I be very familiar with these issue . unfortunately , my gorgeous cousin recently die of a brain tumour , and it be a terrible illness . it be something that I have personally speak to the Health Secretary about . there be drug that could be make more available , and there be trial . the Health Secretary be commit to do that , and my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) have be campaign on these issue for a number of year . I will absolutely ensure that the hon . Lady get a meeting with the relevant Minister . I have receive an email from my constituent that say : " on April 1 last year I have a fall on Highgate Golf course which result in a complex break of my right leg . friend phone for an ambulance but be tell that an ambulance would not come for this type of emergency … on a cold spring day , I be leave lie in an isolated spot on the wet ground , unable to move and in great pain , with very limited option about get to hospital . " could we have a debate about the response of ambulance in such serious situation , so that my constituent do not have to go through something like that again ? I be sorry to hear of that case . ambulance wait time , and the availability of ambulance , be still absolutely unacceptable . they be a symptom of an NHS that be still in crisis . ambulance find themselves wait outside A & Es with patient on board , unable to get they inside , which mean that they be unable to go on to the next case . we be take action , and I will ensure that the House be keep update and that my hon . friend ' s case be look into . this week , I receive a copy of the national priority infrastructure Bill from the " look for growth " campaign . the campaign ' s proposal rightly highlight the complexity in our energy and planning system . we urgently need more nuclear power and datum centre to drive forward the artificial intelligence and robotic revolution here in Britain , but with the high industrial energy price in Europe , we risk fall behind . can we have a debate about how planning can well be reform to provide reliable , affordable and abundant energy ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that these be very important matter . we be speed up our planning and infrastructure decision making so that we can get more nuclear , more datum centre , and more onshore and offshore wind , and deliver the energy security that the country so desperately need . I be sure that he will delight in read the forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill , probably in a matter of day . Zoe Dunklin , from Thrapston in my constituency , be a former Paralympian who represent our country on the global stage . recently , the publicly fund Motability scheme refuse her request for a six - way driver ' s seat , which would have mean that she could use a car independently . instead , the scheme only offer a vehicle that would force she to rely on carer to get she in and out , thereby prevent she from work and volunteering , and take away her independence . she have even offer to pay the difference in price in order to get what she need to live independently . will the Leader of the House join I in fight for the independence that Zoe and other deserve ? absolutely . my hon . friend highlight how important it be to give people independence and mobility so they can go about their life and work as well . he will be aware that the Motability Foundation be an independent charity , but the Government continue to work with it to ensure that its policy be open and inclusive , as they should be . as the Green party representative on the cross - party commission on social care , I be deeply disappointed at the cancellation , with only a day ' s notice , of last week ' s plan initial talk . since social care be in crisis , surely it should be a matter of urgency to get these talk reschedule , but I have as yet have no response to my request for a new date . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to urgently prioritise set a new date for the talk as soon as possible ? I absolutely will do so , because these talk be essential . we be determined to take forward cross - party talk on the future of social care , which be so important . if the comment from across the Atlantic this week have remind we of anything , it be that we should always keep at the forefront of our mind the bravery of our service personnel , not least in recent conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan when serve alongside the US and other ally . I therefore ask my right hon . friend to find time on the Floor of the House for we to debate the bravery and sacrifice of our service personnel . hear , hear . absolutely . my hon . friend can hear from the cheer across the House that this would make a very popular and important debate . it would be a reminder that our armed service have go to many country around the world in support of our ally over many year and sacrifice their life , and we should always remember their bravery and their contribution . I assume that the Leader of the House share my constituent ' alarm that a court find that a convict drug dealer who be here illegally could not be deport because he be too " westernised " ; that prolific offender , include domestic abuser , be , as I understand it , go to be offer anger management course , rather than be incarcerate ; and , most of all , that the new sentencing guideline suggest that judge should look at felon ' ethnicity and religion before sentencing . will she allow a debate on criminal justice to enable we to expose the huge gulf between the liberal bourgeoisie ' s prejudice and those of our constituent , who want people catch , capture , convict and punish , regardless of whether they be black , brown , white or any other colour ? I think the right hon . Member be talk about deport criminal when they should be deport . he will be aware , or should be aware , that nearly 3 , 000 foreign criminal have be deport since the election , which be an increase of more than 20 % compare with situation under the last government . however , he be right to point out that there be still gap in that system , which be why we have bring in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . the Bill will strengthen power to tackle illegal migration and the small boat , and enable the Government to pick up the pace even far on return those who have no right to be here . in a series of hard - hit article in the Herald and the Evening Times recently , the current condition of my home city of Glasgow be review , and issue as diverse as pothole in Partick and poverty in Drumchapel , as well as the state of the public realm , be raise . after 14 year of the Tories in Westminster , 18 of the SNP at Holyrood and eight of an SNP - Green administration in Glasgow , the city be in need of a new vision . do the Leader of the House agree that join a five - city pact , as suggest by Andy Burnham , be a sensible suggestion , and how do she think the Government could support that ambition and the ambition of all of we who have the good interest of Glaswegians and Glasgow at heart ? I be sure my hon . friend can appreciate that I , as a Mancunian , agree with all of Andy Burnham ' s suggestion — nearly all of the time , anyway — and this sound like a very good one . however , she make the big point that the Scottish Government , along with the previous Conservative Government here in Westminster , have fail the scottish people . that be why people vote overwhelmingly for a fresh start with Labour at the general election , and I be sure that will continue . woman be be force to face significant risk in order to be inclusive . man must not be allow access to woman - only space , regardless of whether they believe themselves to be a woman — they be not . we must prioritise safety over inclusivity , dignity over wokery , reality over ideology . will the Leader of the House commit to a debate in Government time on protect woman - only space and woman - only service ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . the Equality Act 2010 , which be bring in by a Labour Government , be absolutely clear on the provision of woman - only space and that they be to be protect , especially where they be need . we be proud to have bring in the Act and we stand by it . I be sure he would have want to say in his question that the Labour party have do more to support woman — to close the gender gap , to reduce inequality , and to tackle violence against woman and girl — than perhaps his party or the conservative party . the B23 postcode in my constituency have experience a troubling surge in knife - relate offence . the west midland violence reduction unit have be instrumental in address the issue , engage with over 8 , 000 young people and contribute to a 18 % reduction in youth violence involve knife between April and September 2024 . however , the violence reduction unit depend on short - term annual funding , which restrict its capacity for long - term strategic planning . will the Leader of the House schedule a debate in this Chamber to discuss the incredible work of violence reduction unit and explore the long - term funding arrangement for these organisation ? absolutely . my hon . friend raise a really important issue . the Government be determined to tackle knife crime . she be right that this be a long - term strategy . it be about prevention and support organisation like the one she mention , and establish organisation such as Young Futures and the coalition to tackle knife crime , which the Prime Minister bring together , as well as take the step we be already take to ban the sale of knife and to pass other measure that be in the forthcoming Crime and Policing Bill . she will note that there be a debate on this matter in two week ' time in the Chamber . last week , I attend the Thrive youth caf é hold at all Saints church in Huntingdon . the caf é run on Mondays and Fridays after school . Richard and Ruth , who run the space , say that it provide a safe space and a listening ear , as well as pool , table tennis and a PlayStation . crucially , it provide opportunity for young people to access support from local youth worker . funding for the thrive youth caf é be precarious , with grant allow the project to exist only in six - monthly cycle , and it desperately need long - term funding guarantee . will the Leader of the House make time in the schedule to celebrate the value that such provision bring to teenager and young people ? and can I invite she to the youth caf é to try one of its now infamous Oreo milkshake ? my child be very fond of Oreo milkshake and all the calorie that be usually in they . I will take the hon . gentleman up on that offer when I be next in Huntingdon in his constituency . he raise what sound like a fantastic volunteer - run service in his local community . many such service face fund uncertainty , which be one reason why the Government want multi - year funding settlement for local government , as that be where many of those type of organisation get their funding from . we need to do more to ensure that these important service can thrive and survive . blyth town in my constituency be definitely on the up and up , but the first impression for new visitor use the main gateway into the town be of a huge derelict garage in desperate need of demolition . Northumberland county council have be approach to address the situation , but here be the issue : the council say quite simply that , while it agree it be in a complete and utter mess , it do not bring the overall amenity of the area down . what a slap in the face for the people in the local community ! do the Leader of the House agree that certain area have be abandon over 14 year of Tory rule ? can we have a discussion in Government time on the accountability of local authority to determine what they can and should be do with property like this in different constituency right across the country ? I be really sorry to hear of the blight on my hon . friend ' s community and constituency cause by this derelict garage . he be absolutely right that this be an opportunity for investment and transformation and for showcase the area , and I be sorry that his council have not see that opportunity for what it be . the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government be commit to address these issue , which be why we be bring forward the plan for neighbourhood , which we announce this week , as well as forthcoming legislation on the community right to buy , compulsory purchase order and other matter , which will give local authority the power and resource they need . when the law favour identity over principle , it cease to be justice at all — Magna Carta teach we that . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Justice Secretary come to the Chamber to explain why , under this Government , sentencing be go to become about who someone be , and not what they have do ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the sentencing guideline be develop and consult on under his government last year , and they be not rule out . the current Justice Secretary — the remarkable and formidable Justice Secretary — have make her position absolutely clear , and she have today write to the Sentencing Council on that . the hon . Gentleman might do well to reflect on the action of his own Government , rather than attack this one . Weston Museum , in the heart of Weston - super - Mare , be a joyful community hub famous for Clara ' s cottage , fantastic cake and , now , Banksy ' s famous pinwheel . the museum be also host a beautiful exhibition curate by some of the wonderful woman of Weston - super - Mare for International Women ' s day . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the woman who put this exhibition together so thoughtfully , encourage everyone to visit the exhibition and thank the dedicated volunteer who contribute so much to the life of Weston Museum and our town ? I join my hon . friend in support his constituent — what a great job he do as the MP for Weston - super - Mare in stand up for all the woman in his constituency , as well as everybody else . I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that I be vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the western gateway . the Government have so far refuse to allocate further funding for the western gateway partnership , which have bring together business , academia and local leader to produce some impressive work , include the soon - to - be - publish report on tidal energy opportunity along the River Severn . when will the Government bring forward a statement on the future of the western gateway , and will the Leader of the House ensure that it be before the spring statement ? I will ensure that the hon . Lady be give an update on the western gateway partnership . tidal be one of a number of energy resource that we be take action on , and I will ensure that she and the House be update . last week , Suffolk county council announce that it be end its contract with Suffolk Libraries and take the service in - house . this be an appalling plan . Suffolk Libraries save Suffolk from experience library closure under Tory austerity , open up library and expand service when other across the country be close down . do the Leader of the House agree that we should be celebrate Suffolk Libraries ' success and not talk it down and run it down ? I strongly support any organisation that boost and support local library , because they be vital to our community and to the young people in those community ; on World Book Day in particular , we should mark the contribution of our local library . I know that government official have meet officer from Suffolk county council on this matter , but I will ensure that my hon . friend be update . she have make her point strongly here today . on Tuesday , I take part in the Westminster Hall debate on market town , which be heavily oversubscribed . although member across the House do their good to canter around their constituency and highlight place such as , in my case , Brigg and Barton - upon - Humber , time be very limited . our market town face a host of challenge , among they the future of the retail sector and the availability of public service , and it be clear that an opportunity to discuss those challenge in more detail would be appreciate . could the Government provide time for a full half - day debate on our market town ? market town be one of our great british asset , so I be not surprised that the debate be so well subscribe — as , indeed , have be many debate in Westminster Hall . we do consider how well subscribe debate have be when decide which to bring to the Floor of the House . I know that the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , who be present , already have a full list of debate , but I be sure that he would be open to this proposal , which would allow the hon . Gentleman and other colleague to celebrate our market town . this Tuesday , organisation and company base in the north - east visit Parliament to celebrate their role in grow our local and national economy , include the Sage , the Port of Tyne and the North East chamber of commerce . I be especially pleased to see Firebrick Brewery , base near my Blaydon office , celebrate the launch of its new stottie beer — member who do not know what a stottie be need to look it up . may we have a debate in Government time on the part that north - east business can play in deliver labour ' s plan for change ? I absolutely will look up what stottie beer be . I thank my hon . friend for that question , because this Government be commit not just to growth , but to ensure that growth in living standard be feel in every part of the country , especially in place such as Blaydon and Consett in the north - east . I be pleased to hear that so many business from her region come to Parliament this week . seven year ago this week , on the order of Putin in the Kremlin , my constituent face the Novichok incident , which have an enormous impact on their life for several month . in the end , Dawn Sturgess die . please may we have a debate on the position of Russia in the world at a time of change geopolitic ? it be absolutely clear to the people of Salisbury , as it be to the people of this country , that an endure peace can be achieve only if we resist appeasement and ensure that we have a secure arrangement with Europe , and with the US hopefully engage . we need to discuss that urgently , along with the role of Russia in the world . I thank the right hon . member for that important reminder that , in this country , we have see what a tyrant and a terror the russian regime be on our soil . this be not some separate or foreign incident affect only Ukraine ; Russia have directly affect this country , with direct consequence for we . that be why the whole House remain steadfast in our support for Ukraine . we , as a Government , be work night and day to build those global alliance to ensure that there be long - last security and peace , and not just in Ukraine but across Europe and elsewhere in the world . we have see at first hand what Russia do when not keep in check . my constituent Chloe be try to sell her leasehold flat , but in order to do so she need a landlord ' s certificate , which protect leaseholder from the cost of remedial work . riverside , the company manage her property , be refuse to provide it , mean that she be trap in an unsaleable flat that have become unaffordable . can the Leader of the House update we on the legislative action the Government be take to support people such as Chloe , and everyone in our country suffer from the leasehold scandal ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . as a near neighbour of his , I be familiar with Riverside and many of the issue he raise . I hope that Riverside have hear the case he mention . he be absolutely right that some leaseholder find themselves trap in home that be unsaleable or unaffordable , with high and rise insurance cost . they often find that they be voiceless in the future of their building , with cost go up and up . that be why , first and foremost , we be implement the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . just this week we publish our commonhold White Paper , which be the beginning of the end of leasehold for good , and later this year we will introduce a draft bill on leasehold reform . this week the BBC uncover the shocking case of how a man convict of a horrific murder in Bradford go on to spend almost two year work with vulnerable child and school after he be wrongly clear by the Disclosure and Barring Service in 2021 . in response to that major safeguarding failure , the DBS now claim that although serious offence commit after 2006 may lead to someone be automatically bar from work with child , offence commit before 2006 may not . that be clearly wrong , and I suspect that this case in Bradford be not a lone one . may we have a debate in Government time on the wide system of DBS check , particularly for individual seek to work with vulnerable child , so that we can get to the bottom of this ? this be a shocking case . the hon . member be absolutely right that we need to be able to have confidence in the DBS checking system , which underpin the safeguarding of child in this country . if we can not have confidence in it , that throw up a whole number of question , as this shocking case have do . I therefore thank he for raise it . I will ensure that he get a Government response about that case and what step be be take to ensure that this never happen again . Mr Speaker , rugby league fan like you and other in the Chamber will know and love my most famous constituent , Billy Boston . before I come into the Chamber , I be inform that Billy be not well . local councillor in my constituency have start a petition to ensure that he receive a knighthood while that be still possible . it be a scandal — and one that we must recognise — that for over a century no rugby football league hero have receive a knighthood . do the Leader of the House agree that Billy Boston should be Sir Billy Boston while that be still possible ? I know that you have strong view on these matter , Mr Speaker , as president of the Rugby Football League — view that I share . my hon . friend will appreciate that I can not comment on particular nomination application , but I share his concern , as I know you do , Mr Speaker — you often take the opportunity to share it with we — that rugby league , which be a great northern sport , should get well recognition in our honours system . we must wish Billy well . he be the great convert from rugby union who come to rugby league . nobody have ever score try like Billy Boston . may we have a debate on access to banking service in small town and rural community ? for year , big bank have treat loyal customer very badly — they have shut branch and reduced service , especially in more rural and remote area , such as my constituency in the Scottish Borders — and last weekend I have to contact cash machine provider because Selkirk and Eyemouth run out of cash . will the Leader of the House back my call so that the resident of small town and rural community can get access to the cash and banking service they need ? access to cash and banking service be probably the single big issue that be raise with I in business question , so I know that it be of great interest to the House and to the hon . member ' s constituent , and it be vital that we take it seriously . that be why we be bring in banking hub — we be commit to open 350 of they , and we be along the way to do that — but this be not something that the Government alone can deal with ; we all need to take more action to ensure that our rural community can access banking service . last week I hold a meeting with local resident impact by leasehold , which be an acute problem in my constituency , compound at time by pretty unscrupulous behaviour by developer . they be trap in short lease with unaffordable buy - out , eye - water extension cost and mortgage lender unwilling to lend . may we have a debate in Government time to update the House on the action the Government be take to end the feudal leasehold system ? this matter be also raise with I a lot , both in business question and by my constituent . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need to end the feudal leasehold system , which be trap innocent homeowner in property that they be unable to get mortgage on or to sell , which be shocking — we have call it " fleecehold " many time before . we be take a number of step , include implement the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . we be move forward on commonhold with the White Paper , and later this year we will introduce draft legislation for a fundamental root - and - branch reform of leasehold . however , I will ensure that the Minister for Housing and Planning come to the House regularly to update we . I recently visit the beautiful village of Burton Leonard in my constituency for the 100th anniversary of its woman ' s institute branch . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate the fact that it have make it to 100 and hope that it have many more year to come ? will she also consider whether there be time for a Government debate on the importance of local community organisation and how we can ensure that they have fund support ? as we celebrate International Women ' s day , it be a good day to recognise the valuable work of woman ' s institutes across the country , include in Burton Leonard . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that those sort of voluntary organisation provide a huge service to our community and deserve a long - term future . this week , a youth strategy review be announce , which could not be more welcome in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village . accord to Unison ' s local government report , between 2010 and 2023 , Staffordshire county council close 32 youth centre , which be the third - high rate in the country . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the work to help youth centre across the country ? while we be talk about young people , Emily Rizk from Newcastle and Stafford Colleges Group be recently honour with the project excellence award at the Association of Colleges ' student of the year award . will the Leader of the House join I and my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) in celebrate Emily ' s amazing work ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in celebrate Emily Rizk ' s fantastic work and her achievement . I will also join my hon . friend in agree that youth service and centre , which have be completely hollow out in recent year , play a vital role in support young people , keep they out of other activity that we might not want they to do . that be why we be commit to the Young Futures programme and many other initiative . may I remind member to speed up , so that we can get everyone in ? I declare my interest as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary medium group and chair of the all - party parliamentary group on freedom of speech . last month I find myself in somewhat rare agreement with the Chancellor when she challenge Britain ' s regulator to create a regulatory environment that unlock innovation and investment . our medium be one the sector in which we have see really good growth over the past few year , with huge diversification right across the sector , but there be a concern about the attitude of regulator , which might undermine that growth potential . I think specifically of case highlight recently in an opinion piece by my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) , in which Ofcom fine GB News 10 time more for do a question time event with the conservative party leader than it fine another channel for broadcast antisemitic trope . I worry that that attitude towards police the medium , which seem to focus more on politic than prejudice , may act as a barrier to other come into the sector . will the Leader of the House schedule a debate on the medium sector , the role of regulation and freedom in our sector ? that be a bad example of a short question . [ laughter . ] I think the right hon . Gentleman begin by say that he find himself in the unusual position of agree with the Chancellor . fear not ; I do not think he and I will find ourselves in the unusual position of agree on much any time soon , but I respect his view on many thing . our regulator play an important role . we absolutely support free speech , but we also ensure that there be fairness and balance in our medium and that we protect people from disinformation and misinformation and from some of the problem we have see . tomorrow night , Natasha Jonas and Lauren Price will make history , headline the first ever all - woman ' s championship boxing card at the famous Royal Albert Hall , with Boxxer and Sky Sports . will the Leader of the House join I in wish both fighter and the entire undercard the good of luck ? will she also confirm this Government ' s commitment , ahead of International Women ' s Day , to increase participation in sport for woman and girl in Blackpool and across the UK ? absolutely , I join my hon . friend in celebrate this historic occasion as Natasha and Lauren take to the ring in that first all - woman ' s box championship . this Government be commit to support and develop woman ' s sport , and not just in Blackpool but across the country . the Sentencing Council have issue guideline say that a pre - sentence report will normally be consider before sentence a criminal from an ethnic , cultural or faith minority , or if the criminal be a woman or a transsexual , but not , apparently , if someone be a straight , white , christian man . that evidence of two - tier justice be corrosive to public trust and confidence in the criminal justice system . give that Ministry of Justice official attend the Sentencing Council , either the Lord Chancellor know of the policy or she be asleep at the wheel . for the record , the Lord Chancellor ' s predecessor , Alex Chalk , have describe this as ridiculous . the Leader of the House fail to give a response to my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , so will she find time for a debate on the Sentencing Council ? as I make clear to the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) early , the Government have make it absolutely clear that we disagree with the guidance issue by the Sentencing Council . the hon . Member will know that the process and consultation for develop that guidance happen on his government ' s watch — it absolutely do . the Lord Chancellor have make her position and that of the Government absolutely clear today , and that be why she have write to the Sentencing Council . the creative service sector in my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle and in Cornwall more generally be one of the most important to our local economy . the work produce be exhibit and sell all over the world , but many of those active in our creative industry be concerned about the intellectual property risk from artificial intelligence . follow the end of the consultation last week , will the Leader of the House assure those work in the creative industry that the Government will take full advantage of what AI can provide , but will also protect our precious creative industry ? this government absolutely support our value creative industry . it be a long - stand , prevalent principle of our copyright rule in this country that creative get payment and have control over the creative content of their work . I will absolutely ensure that the House be keep update . I recently write to all Departments about the total cost of employee settlement agreement . although there be some astronomical figure , most Departments have provide I with a response , but the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice have refuse to answer that basic question , even reject freedom of information request from my office . will the Leader of the House advise I on how I can obtain that information , particularly since the two Departments have frustrate my effort to scrutinise they thus far ? I will look into why the hon . Member have not have a proper reply and ensure that he get one . last year , York Rescue Boat spend 6 , 500 hour patrol the river in York and train 1 , 500 people on river safety . however , the river see 25 people in , and this week we see the late tragedy . will she have a discussion with colleague in Cabinet about have a joint departmental working group to create a strategy around river safety , so that we can prevent these tragic event ? I be sorry to hear about the tragic event in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and water safety be of real importance . we have to educate people on regular occasion and ensure that the rescue service be there . I will certainly ensure that her suggestion be look at carefully and that she get a response . I be sure you will appreciate , Madam Deputy Speaker , the importance of the cider industry to my constituency , which be home to many fantastic traditional cider maker : Burrow Hill cider , bere cider , Hecks cider , Harry ' s cider and tricky cider , to name just a few . however , as we enter the spring blossom season , many independent cider maker be worried about the impact of the forthcoming extend producer responsibility regulation . can we have a debate in Government time on the impact of EPR regulation on independent traditional cider maker ? as a regular attender of Glastonbury festival , I have partake in a bit of Glastonbury cider over the year , and I can confirm that it be excellent cider — although perhaps I could not remember that towards the end of have it . I be not actually aware of the new regulation that she mention , but I will absolutely ensure that she get a full response about they . today I have join over 100 labour parliamentarian in call for environmental , social and governance rule to be reform to support investment in defence . at this historic moment , can we have a debate on how the financial sector could step up by help shore up defence on our continent ? that be an important matter to do with the framework and how that type of investment should be allocate . I will ensure that the House continue to discuss it . business question be a must - watch every week , but I understand that the people of Parachinar in Pakistan be watch this week in particular because of this question . for the past 150 day in Parachinar , Shi ' a Muslims , Sikhs , Christians and Hindus have be under siege . despite the signing of a peace agreement in January , the humanitarian situation remain dire , with continue report of mob attack and widespread internal displacement . some 800 , 000 individual , include the elderly , pregnant woman , infant and the sick , be face severe food and medicinal shortage because of the blockade of the road . they need food , petrol and medicine to keep they go . some 128 child have tragically die because of the lack of essential resource . will the Government engage in discussion with their Pakistan counterpart to address the ongoing siege and ensure the restoration of humanitarian access via the road to Parachinar , to protect that vulnerable community ? I thank the hon . Gentleman yet again for raise an important matter . he will know that the Government be commit to promote the right and safety of religious minority in Pakistan and elsewhere . the british high commission continue to raise the situation in Parachinar with the Pakistan authority at the very high level . recent report publish by the Manchester Mill about racism , financial misconduct and bully at the University of Greater Manchester in Bolton have significantly damage the reputation of that institution over the past few week . those report have also lead to a significant number of whistleblower contact I with further allegation highlight concern practice at the university . give that the university be a key institution in Bolton and receive significant public funding , it must be transparent and accountable — as must the Office for Students . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on this gravely concern matter ? I know that this issue be of huge importance to my hon . friend ' s constituent in Bolton . he will be aware that the Office for Students be look into those serious allegation and engage with the provider , and that the police be involve as well . he will know that the Office for Students have a number of sanction available to it when allegation of such failure be find to be true . I will ensure that he be keep update . question must be short as we have only 25 minute to go . I call Adam Jogee to show we how it be do . I shall try , Madam Deputy Speaker . last Friday , the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme receive the news that the cowboy operator of Walleys quarry landfill have go into liquidation . that be an attempt to cut and run from clean up the disgraceful mess that they have cause for far too long . will the Leader of the House find time for we to unpick the crisis face the waste sector in England , to identify how we can ensure that those who cause harm be hold to account and make to pay for their failure , and to discuss how we can deliver justice and answer for the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme ? I thank my hon . friend for his leadership on the issue of Walleys quarry , which he have raise with I a number of time in business question . I know that he have have meeting with Ministers , the Environment Agency and other , and I be sure that his leadership on sort out that terrible situation will be of great comfort to his constituent . footage release yesterday appear to show 200 horrific hour of repeat animal abuse at an abattoir in my constituency . I have be work with resident and a multitude of agency to try to ensure safety and compliance since well before my election to this place . many now feel outraged that the regulatory system have fail even to notice , let alone address , the repeat breach . will the Leader of the House work with I to establish why it take an activist to highlight those issue while my constituent in Old Arley and those animal continue to suffer , and to find way of ensure that there be tight scrutiny and swifter action , and that business be close when standard be not meet ? we take a zero - tolerance approach to breach of animal welfare , such as those that my hon . friend describe . the Food Standards Agency have already take action , but if that have not be sufficient , I will ensure that it do more . today be , as the Leader of the House mention , World Book Day . it be also the day when I announce the winner of my World Book Day competition for the child of Rochdale . will she join I in congratulate 10 - year - old Harry Hodgkiss of Milnrow parish Church of England primary school on his brilliant review of David Walliams ' s " the World ' s Worst Monsters " , and in thank local business Alf Recruit , i - Branded and Office Supplies now for provide the prize of £ 375 - worth of book for Harry ' s school and personalise stationery for all the winner ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Harry Hodgkiss on win his World Book Day competition and the business and other who support it and provide fund . today and on many occasion in this House , we can say that it be a bit of " a Squash and a squeeze " . on Tuesday , my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal , arbitrarily detain in India for over seven year now , be acquit of all charge by the judge at the district and session court in Moga in Punjab , yet he remain imprison , face the possibility of eight further court case lack in any credible evidence and of languish in confinement for decade . this be the breakthrough we have all be wait for . the time for my Government to act be now . will the Leader of the House arrange for an urgent Government statement confirm that every effort will be make to secure his immediate release and bring he home to Dunbarton ? my hon . friend be right to raise the case of Jagtar Singh Johal , which have be raise a number of time in the House . he will know that the Prime Minister have raise this with Prime Minister Modi , and I assure he that we will continue to support Mr Johal through his detention until he be release , which need to happen urgently . I thank my hon . friend for raise that and will ensure the House be keep update . two hundred year ago this September , the modern passenger railway be bear when locomotion no . 1 be put on the track at Heighington station in my constituency . can the Leader of the House tell we how the Government will support the global anniversary of the Darlington - Stockton railway , and will Ministers meet I to discuss how we can bring back to its former glory the dilapidated original station , which be so key to our heritage ? we support the Darlington - Stockton railway , and I thank my hon . friend for raise that as we mark 200 year of its existence . we will support he in every way we can . one reason that part of my rural north Cumbria constituency be not serve by fix broadband be that the per - metre charge to access Openreach ' s duct and pole make it prohibitively expensive to roll out broadband by other provider . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the cost of roll out rural broadband , in particular the charge for physical infrastructure access ? my hon . friend be right that access to digital broadband be vital — it be now the fourth utility for many people — but in rural community it remain patchy . despite the previous Government make money available , digital broadband have be too slow to roll out and to get to her constituent , and this Government be take step to speed that up . last Friday in this Chamber , Members of the UK Youth Parliament discuss and agree the priority for this year , which be vote at 16 and period dignity . the myp conduct themselves with honour and respect . I would like to pay tribute to and thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as well as Mr Speaker , the Speaker ' s Office , the Table Office and the Doorkeepers for everything they do . will the Leader of the House congratulate the myp on their amazing day ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate the amazing Youth Parliament . it be a reminder of how brilliant the young people of this country be and how young people can be responsible for cast their vote at the age of 16 . I thank Mr Speaker and his office for facilitate it . bracknell indoor indie market celebrate its first birthday last week . it be run by two fantastic businesswoman , Jem and Rachel , and give opportunity to many more woman - own business in Bracknell . ahead of the International Women ' s Day debate , will the Leader of the House join I in wish BIIM a very happy birthday ? absolutely . I congratulate Jem and Rachel on the work they do . we should be support woman in business more than ever , because they play a valuable role in our economy . we all know of one famous US citizen who have close family tie to Scotland , but there be 25 million Scots Americans who want to trace their lineage — it be a big market . that be why organisation in my constituency such as Hebrides People in Harris and historical society in Ness and North Uist invest in family history and oral history , which be a treasure trove to connect people to their root . will the Leader of the House join I in encourage investment in heritage tourism , so that we can connect the child of scot emigrant , even those who strain our friendship , to find their way home ? absolutely , and I know how important tourism be to my hon . friend ' s constituency . he have be a great advert for it here today , which I be sure will attract many more people . in recent week I have be contact by many constituent who be frighten by the decision of Buckinghamshire council to close its housing register temporarily . do my right hon . friend agree that people face homelessness deserve our full support , and that we must address the underlie cause of homelessness , such as the lack of affordable and social housing ? will she make time for a debate on that issue ? we have an acute housing crisis in this country , and the long waiting list , or even close list such as the one my hon . friend describe , be a symptom of that crisis . that be why the Government be commit to 1 . 5 million extra home , of which a huge proportion will be social and affordable home . may I draw the House ' s attention to my position as chair of the all - party group on long covid and on myalgic encephalomyelitis ( ME ) ? in recognition of International Women ' s day , I wish to draw attention to the significant gender disparity in the impact of chronic illness . give the gravity of the issue , will the Leader of the House commit to hold a debate on woman ' s health inequality , with particular focus on those live with I , long covid , and other chronic illness ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . we be commit to support those with chronic illness and those with I , and we will publish a delivery plan in the come month . she highlight the important matter of gender disparity . we recently have a debate on woman ' s health , and I be sure gender disparity in chronic illness would be a popular subject . across the House this week we have hear about the vital contribution that our armed force make , and the dedication they show to this country . however , sometimes the experience of woman in the armed force can be challenging . will the Leader of the House consider a debate on how the Government can support woman who be currently serve in or have previously serve in our armed force ? my hon . friend raise an important matter , and recent case have highlight some of the difficulty she raise . we want woman not only to join the armed force , but to feel that they can completely and fully contribute and have a long career in the armed force . any barrier to that be wrong and need to be root out , and I will certainly ensure that my hon . friend be update . rise — order . we have 19 people stand and just 13 minute , so I ask Members please to keep it short . I declare an interest as a member of the all - party group on political and media literacy . we live in increasingly uncertain time , and we be see a real change as the threat we be face move from the traditional to the digital , with thing such as misinformation and disinformation on the rise . give that , will the Leader of the House consider hold a debate on the importance of medium literacy in prevent such misinformation , give people the tool they need to fight against it themselves ? my hon . friend raise the important matter of online misinformation and disinformation . provision in the Online Safety Act 2023 be start to come through , but she be right to say that educate our young people be vital to ensure that they have the literacy they need to navigate the social medium world of the future in which they will all live . I recently have the pleasure of visit Mail Solutions , an employee - own company in my constituency lead by Karl Lee . that company export envelope and print around the world , include for election across Africa , but it tell I that it face red tape and barrier in do so . can we back british business , reduce red tape , and allow business such as Mail Solutions to grow ? absolutely ; the Government be commit to grow the economy and ensure that business such as Mail Solutions can grow and flourish and that red tape and barrier to growth be break down as well we can . I be proud to represent historic Shrewsbury , with our grade II list building , but it be currently not be use to its full potential as the gateway to our magnificent town . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Transport to make a statement about ensure that the transition to great British Railways allow for unlock our beautiful railway asset for public and commercial use , which would transform our station quarter ? absolutely . I be familiar with Shrewsbury station , which be beautiful but could perhaps be well use as the interchange of important rail connectivity that it be for my hon . friend ' s constituent . that be why the Government and the Secretary of State be look at how we can ensure that land use and station development be at the core of our plan for boost the railway , as well as infrastructure and housing . last week , I kick off the annual Hillbilly 10k in my home town of Dalmellington in my constituency . hundred brave the weather to race and to support Cancer Research UK . by organise event such as that for more than 20 year , my constituent , Lorna Dempsey , have help to raise £ 500 , 000 and more . like many other fundraiser , she be inspire by the loss of a friend , who die of breast cancer at the age of 32 . will the Leader of the House join I in thank fundraiser such as Lorna , and make time for a debate in Government time on how we fund research into save life from that cruel disease ? I congratulate my hon . friend on kick off the hillbilly 10k — I hope there be not the traditional scottish weather when she be do that — and I congratulate Lorna on her immense fundraising effort . my hon . friend be right that we need to continue to do more to fight cancer , promote research and provide support so that we can stop people unnecessarily die of cancer so young . the Leader of the House have already mention the Equality Act 2010 . back in 2013 , Parliament legislate to require a Minister of the Crown to " amend this section so as to provide for caste to be an aspect of race " . however , five year later the Government announce that they would not implement that legislation , argue that caste discrimination can be discrimination base on ethnic origin . do the Leader of the House agree that caste discrimination be as bad as discrimination base on colour , nationality , or ethnic or national origin , and will she agree to a debate in the House on the implementation of section 9 ( 5 ) of the Equality Act , so that caste discrimination be specify as a form of race discrimination ? I appreciate that caste discrimination can be incredibly damaging and pernicious . we take our obligation under the Equality Act very seriously indeed , and I will ensure that my hon . friend get an update on that . a week ago today , Basingstoke sadly lose Graham Robins , a long - serve governor at St Mark ' s primary school in my constituency . Graham dedicate over 25 year to support the school , Immanuel church and St Mark ' s church , play a pivotal role in the life of countless pupil and family . even in his final day , he speak of his deep love for the school and its community , and he leave behind a remarkable legacy of kindness , wisdom and service . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Graham , and to the vital role of school governor and the invaluable voluntary service they provide ? I be really sorry to hear about the passing of Graham Robins , and I understand that that will have a devastating impact on the school , his family and the whole community . I join my hon . friend in pay my full respect to the work that Graham do , and to the contribution that he and many other make to our society . I be delighted that resident in Park End and Ormesby will soon see the state - of - the - art new Southlands Centre sport facility come to east Middlesbrough . its delivery have be a team effort from our Labour council , the Middlesbrough Football Club Foundation and Sky Bet English Football League , and have be sign off by the Labour Government . do the Leader of the House agree that this be a win performance from a strong labour team ? absolutely ; it be a win performance from a strong labour team and it be a win effort in pun . they be normally my speciality , but I can not beat my hon . friend on that one . resident in Ovingham , in my constituency , be desperate for adequate glass recycle facility that they can walk to , as they be currently have to drive to Prudhoe or Wylam , yet conservative - lead Northumberland county council be simply not listen to they . will the Leader of the House join I in call for the Tories lead Northumberland county council to get a grip and allow my constituent to recycle their glass properly ? I be pleased that my hon . friend ' s constituent be so keen on recycling . I join he in call for the Conservative - run council to do more to ensure that his constituent who want to recycle can recycle . seven - year - old Skye have be bring joy to the life of resident at the award - win Brookfields nursing home in my constituency , whether play bingo , watch a film or chat over dinner . do the Leader of the House agree with I that everyone need to be a bit more like Skye , and could we have a debate on the physical and mental benefit , to both the young and the elderly , of be together ? I love to hear of those intergenerational scheme in which young people such as Skye go into care home and really lift the life of those at the end of their life . I absolutely join my hon . friend in say that we should all be a bit more like Skye . as we have hear , today be World Book Day . like many in this House , I have fond childhood memory of dress up as a character from my favourite book , but research from the National Literacy Trust show that the number of child read in their spare time have fall to its low in almost two decade . that come at the same time as soar smartphone usage among child , which be cause concern to parent in my constituency . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on how we can reinvigorate a love of reading in young people and tackle smartphone harm ? I be glad that my hon . friend enjoy dress up . as I say at the beginning , scrabble together an outfit be a bit of a stressful thing for work parent . he be absolutely right : we have to get our young people enjoy the love of reading and actual , physical book and library , and Bookstart and the National Literacy Trust , which my hon . friend raise , be crucial part of that . I be really pleased that my young understand what a content page and an index page be when read a book . I know that sound remarkable , but these day , when they can google everything , they do not know how to use an index . the date of 29 March be a seismic day in Redditch town centre , as , after a long hiatus , the outdoor market return to redditch town centre , thank to the excellent leadership of our Labour council by Joe Baker and Sharon Harvey . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Redditch borough council on its commitment to regenerate our high street and our local business , and perhaps encourage resident to join we on 29 March to ensure that the market be a success ? I be sure that many people across Redditch will join my hon . friend and the local council on 29 March . I congratulate he as a great new MP for Redditch and its local council on bring back Redditch market . right across my school , young people be concerned about the conspiracy theory and extremism that they encounter online . a really important report recently by the Pears Foundation and Public First highlight the need to do more to empower school to tackle those issue in the classroom . can we have a statement from the Education Secretary on how we can ensure that the upcoming review of the curriculum deliver on exactly that issue ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . a number of member have already raise digital literacy with I today and how we can do more to tackle misinformation and disinformation online , especially for our young people . that would make for a very popular topic for a debate , and I will ensure that my hon . friend get an update . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to the long serve leader and second - ever chair of Harlow council , Tom Farr , who pass away on Tuesday ? Tom devote so much of his life to serve the community of Harlow as both a councillor and a secondary school teacher , and also as the chair of Harlow primary health trust . [ Official Report , 10 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 676 . ] ( Correction ) I absolutely join my hon . friend in pay tribute to Tom Farr and his life of dedicated service to Harlow and to Harlow council . I also take the opportunity to thank my hon . friend for join the Modernisation Committee . Ogwen Valley mountain rescue in my constituency be be stretch to the limit by an increase in call - out . it have go out 23 time already this year , include for two tragic incident that result in fatality . will the Leader join I in say a huge thank you to all the volunteer who dedicate their time , especially as the group celebrate its 60th birthday this weekend ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate and thank all those from the Ogwen Valley mountain rescue team for the fantastic work they do . it be a shame that they need to do it , because we really need people to take more seriously a common - sense approach to enjoy our beauty and not to put themselves at risk . resident of the Upper Braes village in Falkirk have be campaign for five year follow the failure of not - fit - for - purpose heating system that have lead to poorly heated home and extraordinarily high household bill . a gentleman I speak to in Slamannan be spend £ 300 to £ 400 a month on energy for his two - bedroom house simply , as he put it , to " keep the frost off " his nose . do the Leader of the House agree that those involve in that failure should be hold to account and that those who have suffer deserve a fair solution ? absolutely ; that be why this government be take our clean energy mission so seriously . it will not only give we energy security , but lead to low bill for people such as my hon . friend ' s constituent . in the meantime , we be ensure that we extend the warm home discount to another 2 million people next year , so that his constituent and many other can keep themselves warm at home . last week , I have the privilege of open the new block at Sir John Deane ' s sixth - form college in Northwich . it be reveal at the event that the Sixth Form Colleges Association have confirm that , once again , Johnny Deane ' s be one of the country ' s lead sixth - form college , have both the high attainment and the high value add of all large mainstream sixth - form college . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Sir John Deane ' s on that incredible achievement , and will she allow time for a debate on the vital role that sixth - form college play ? I join my hon . friend in give my heartfelt congratulation to Sir John Deane ' s sixth - form college for its outstanding contribution and all the great standard it deliver . it be great to visit Hertfordshire and Essex high school to kick off this week ' s National Careers Week . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on how this Labour Government be break down barrier to opportunity for young people in semi - rural community such as mine ? I thank my hon . friend for organise and be so involved in the career fair in his constituency . he be absolutely right — we have huge opportunity in this country , and we need to well link young people and the skill they have with the job opportunity of the future . recently , I meet Dr Shamsee and Dr Ward at Oaklands health centre in my constituency , and we discuss social prescribing . social prescribing address social , emotional and practical need , promote holistic health , and local GPs play a crucial role in it . can we have a debate on the importance of social prescribing ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the important work do by Oaklands health centre . this Government support social prescribing to address wide health determinant and improve people ' s wellbee . that might be a record . I thank the Leader of the House for be so fast in her response — we get everybody in . North Sea Energy with permission , I would like to make a statement about this Government ' s plan to unleash the North sea ' s clean energy future . for almost half a century , the worker , business and community of the North sea have power our country and the world . we believe that they can and will continue to do so for the next half a century and beyond , which be why yesterday , we launch a consultation on the step we be take to seize the opportunity of the clean energy transition in the North sea . this be about work with business , worker and community to strengthen north - east Scotland ' s status as the energy capital of the UK , and it be about show global leadership as we deliver a well - manage , orderly and prosperous transition . we know that the North sea be a mature basin . oil and gas production have see a natural decline of 72 % between 1999 and 2023 , and as a result , the industry have lose around a third of its direct workforce over the past decade . the truth be that sprint to clean energy be the only way to deliver energy security and good , long - term job for the workforce and for community . at the same time , we know that we need to listen to the science on what be require to keep global warming to 1 . 5 ° c . a science - align approach to future oil and gas production be the only way to deliver climate security for future generation , so we owe it to the North sea ' s worker and community — who have do so much for our country — to come up with a proper plan for the future . that be what this Government be do . first , we be consult on our manifesto commitment not to issue new licence to explore new field . while we have always be clear that oil and gas will continue to play an important role for decade to come , the reality be that new licence for oil and gas award in the past decade have make only a marginal difference to overall production . to continue grant they would not help our energy security , would not be compatible with our climate commitment , and would not take one penny off bill . as such , we will not award new licence , but we will continue work with the sector to manage exist field for the entirety of their lifespan . we will also provide the long - term certainty on its fiscal landscape that the sector need . yesterday , the Treasury set out plan for a new regime to respond to future spike in oil and gas price once the energy profit levy end in 2030 . the second part of the consultation be about harness the North sea ' s unique strength , include its offshore infrastructure , highly skilled engineer and deep supply chain , to make it a global clean energy powerhouse . in just eight month , we have already make significant progress . we have establish Great British Energy in Aberdeen , so that it be in the perfect position to drive the roll - out of clean energy project . we have improve the offshore wind auction , so that later this year there will for the first time be a new clean industry bonus to reward investment in good manufacturing job and clean supply chain . we have oversee a record - break renewable auction . we have kick - start the UK ' s carbon capture and hydrogen industry — the energy sector of the future — with strong , early investment . just yesterday , we award more than £ 55 million to the port of Cromarty Firth for upgrade that will support the development of float offshore wind , create hundred of job as we ensure Scotland and the UK remain world leader in this next - generation technology . but that be just the start . our clean power action plan will drive £ 40 billion a year of investment to meet our goal of clean power by 2030 . research show that job in offshore renewable sector could increase by ten of thousand in that time . we will also make sure worker have the tool they need to take up these new opportunity . already , we have work with the Scottish Government and trade body to launch a skill passport , make it easy and quick for oil and gas worker to bring their skill and experience into clean energy job . that idea have be stick in the mud for year . thankfully , we have make more progress in the past eight month than be make in the previous 14 year combine . at the same time , we be put clean energy at the heart of our upcoming modern industrial strategy . we be incredibly fortunate to have the North sea on our doorstep . for decade , the oil and gas bury there have fuel development and charge our economy , but the North sea ' s long - term future lie in its incredible clean energy potential . we know that its stable wind and shallow shelf make it one of the good location in the world for offshore wind farm . we know that the UK continental shelf alone have enough capacity to store up to 78 billion tonne of carbon , which be roughly the amount this country have produce since the industrial revolution . with our skilled offshore industry and workforce , we be perfectly place to seize this natural advantage and get ahead in the global race for new job in new industry . instead of stick our head in the sand and avoid the big decision , we have set out a plan to deliver the future that the North sea ' s worker and community deserve . it be a plan to co - ordinate the scale - up of clean energy industry , from offshore wind and hydrogen to carbon capture and storage ; a plan to give the oil and gas sector the support and clarity it need to continue operate for decade to come ; a plan for energy security and sustainable economic growth ; and a plan to keep work with the people who matter most — the North sea ' s business , worker , community and trade union — to take advantage of the tremendous opportunity of the year ahead together . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . another day , another demonstration of this Government ' s total ignorance of our oil and gas industry and the north - east of Scotland , their incompetence on the economy and their disregard for the hundred of thousand of worker in our North sea , as well as their dangerous ineptitude when it come to our energy security . no other country in the world , especially at a time of heighten global instability and volatility , would actively choose to aggressively and at pace shut down its domestic oil and gas industry , but that be exactly what this Government and in particular this Department , lead by the eco - warrior in chief , be do . the consultation , announce yesterday , be trumpet by Government spinner as the beginning of the end of the energy profit levy and a brave new dawn for the North sea . it be complete and utter rubbish . it be a total joke . the energy profit levy be high now than it be before , because of the decision of this Labour Government . the investment allowance have almost all be scrap by this Labour Government . crucially , the windfall tax be now in place for far long — until 2030 — because of this Labour Government . that be five year away , but the oil and gas industry do not have five year . investment be dry up , and work be be put on pause . company be literally shut up shop . the truth be that the high - pay , good , long - term job that the Minister speak of do not yet exist in renewable in the north - east of Scotland . People be leave in their drove for other country , such as the USA , Saudi Arabia , the UAE , Qatar and Norway , where the industry do have a future . she say we owe it to the North sea ' s worker and community to come up with a proper plan for their future , but this Government ' s plan for the North sea be simply to shut it down . this government ' s plan be a betrayal of those worker . this Government ' s plan will devastate the community of the north - east of Scotland . it be say that in every oil - produce country in the world you will find an Aberdonian . it turn out that the only country in which you will not find an Aberdonian work in oil in the near future be Scotland , drive by this mad rush to clean power 2030 and the Government ' s obsession with renewable at the expense of everything and everyone else . it may be " Drill , baby , drill " in the United States , but it be " Dole , baby , dole " under Labour in the United Kingdom . the Government ' s decision will cost our economy some £ 12 billion in lose tax revenue to the Treasury , on top of the £ 12 billion in lose capital investment . this make a complete mockery of their claim to be anything like pro - growth . it be insanity to be do all this to our own industry while become increasingly reliant on import from abroad and cause more carbon to be release into the atmosphere : more import of liquefy natural gas , fracke in the USA , frozen and then ship across the Atlantic on diesel - chug ship ; or more import from Norway , a net exporter , which be drill from the very same sea from which we could drill ourselves . it be completely nonsensical . this Government be a complete joke , oversee the wilful deindustrialisation of our nation . if the Minister will not take my word for it , perhaps she will take the word of the GMB leader , who say : " in the new geopolitical reality — it ' s madness . if the North Sea be be prematurely close down and we be increase import dependence — that ' s bad for job , economic growth and national security . " or perhaps she will take the word of the general secretary of Unite , who say : " we need to resist any call that amount to offshore our carbon responsibility for the sake of virtue signal . " may I ask the Minister whether she have personally meet any oil and gas worker since take office , in order to understand what her Government ' s policy mean for they and their family , and whether the Secretary of State have do so ? will the industry receive an answer on the uncertainty surround the calculation of scope 3 emission and environmental impact assessment ? give the announcement of £ 200 million to support the 400 worker affect by the closure of Grangemouth , how much do the Minister think the Treasury might need to find to support the 200 , 000 worker currently support by the oil and gas industry ? do she agree with the Climate Change Committee that we will need oil and gas until at least 2050 , and have she account for the high carbon emission associate with import liquefy natural gas instead ? finally , let I ask whether she still see the Department as a sponsor and a champion for the industry — because the industry certainly do not trust that to be the case . the shadow Minister quote trade union representative , have not meet they or support they in government . that be always rich . [ interruption . ] he say that he do ; I stand correct , although I suspect that he do not do it often . he quote the general secretary of the GMB , so let I quote he back . the general secretary say : " tory ideology have leave the UK vulnerable and expose . our government stand by and export the bulk of the job , close gas storage and fail to invest in new nuclear and skill . " I thank the shadow Minister for his question , and I will come to they shortly , but I have to say that this be a fairly familiar story from the conservative party : no acknowledgment of their fail record on the North sea , no acknowledgment of their have preside over the bad cost of live crisis in a generation , and no answer to the future challenge that our country face . I remind the hon . Gentleman that it be his party that lose 70 , 000 north sea job in less than a decade . his government be content for those worker to have to go around the world to find job , but this Government want to keep those talent here in the UK , which be why , unlike the last government , we have a plan . in my statement , I say that everyone accept that the North sea be a decline basin . I do not know whether the shadow Minister understand the basic geology , but this be a super - mature basin , and the hard it become to drill for oil and gas , the less likely it be that people will be successful . only one in 10 of the licence that have be offer and grant in recent year have ultimately lead to any work . the hon . Gentleman need to establish what his party ' s view of this agenda be . the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , who be sit next to he , have some very peculiar thing to say in Westminster Hall yesterday , and it be unclear exactly what their position be . the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) be a Minister for the grid who oppose grid infrastructure , he be a Minister for solar who oppose solar power , and here he be now , the Minister for Aberdeen , campaign against job and investment in his own community . we be get on with a plan for the future . first , we will invest in clean power . it be ludicrous that at this time when our bill depend on what Putin choose to do and we have to respond , the shadow Minister be suggest that we should do more of that . even if there be no climate change , even if there be no push to clean power , if we drill as much oil and gas from the North sea as we possibly could , it would amount to less than 1 % of the global market and would have no impact on bill whatsoever . we will give immediate support to worker — we have explain how we will do that — and we will support Scotland more widely . we will support Great British Energy in Aberdeen . we will support Grangemouth with £ 200 million from the national wealth fund . Harland and Wolff in Arnish and Methil have be save from closure . yesterday , the Port of Cromarty Firth receive £ 55 million through the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme . twenty per cent . of the contract in allocation round 6 of the contract for difference auction be go to Scotland . we have hydrogen investment in Cromarty and Ayrshire . we have the big budget for the Scottish Government that we have see . this be a party that be commit to support the people of Scotland , not oversee manage decline . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Minister be right to remind we that the North sea be a mature basin , she be right to remind we that 70 , 000 job have be lose there in the last 10 year , and she be right to praise the highly skilled engineer who have make such a contribution in the North sea and to the country . she mention the skill passport , and say that the Government be make progress with the industry in find alternative in the job transition . the Select Committee have hear , a number of time , evidence that one of the challenge be the fact that pay in the North sea be significantly high than pay in equivalent job in the renewable sector , and offshore wind in particular . what , at this stage , be the Minister ' s thought on how we can make pay more attractive for worker move from oil and gas into renewable ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on the Select Committee , which be very important . as he know , for a long time we have be a bit stuck in try to set up a passport system because of the slightly different skill and qualification in each industry and the need to bring they together . the Government become involved to try to ensure that we could bridge that gap and enable people to make the transition . oil and gas worker be highly skilled and greatly in demand , and , as my hon . Friend say , they be pay a good wage . we need to work with the new offshore wind company ; we like to see union recognition , and we like to see good salary for people do those job as well . there will be other job that people can go into . the plan be to help people make the transition rather than leave they adrift as the last Government do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , much of which we can agree with . the North sea give the UK the opportunity to become a powerhouse in renewable energy generation , and it be time that we seize it . we urge the Government to make good their commitment to consult on a new regime to boost investment in job . we want to ensure that the oil and gas industry be wind down in a way that support the redeployment of skill and job , and provide the right incentive to encourage fossil fuel industry to invest in green technology . what detail can the Minister give we of the support that the Government will provide to upskill and redeploy those who be formerly work in the fossil fuel industry ? we believe that much bold action be urgently need to ensure energy security , to cut bill and , with Donald Trump threaten to pull the United States out of the Paris agreement once again , to resume the UK ' s global leadership role on climate action , which be abandon by the previous Conservative Government . we urge this government to introduce an emergency 10 - year plan to insulate home , start with free insulation for the most vulnerable resident , and to introduce an energy social tariff to tackle fuel poverty and health inequality cause by cold , damp home . we be deeply concerned about the cost of heating bill follow Ofgem ' s decision to increase the energy price cap by 6 . 4 % this April — the third increase since October 2024 . the Government must decouple electricity price from the wholesale gas price and toughen up their windfall tax on the profit of oil and gas giant , include by increase the tax by another two percentage point to a headline rate of 80 % . time and again , we have be disappoint by the decision that the Government have take this winter to delay energy bill support for household . for example , the Government ' s warm home scheme , design to insulate home , will not benefit household until — Order . there be always a maximum of two minute , and you have exceed it . please be seat . I thank the hon . Lady for her remark . on upskille and redeploy worker , as I say previously , we be introduce the passporting scheme and make sure that we can break down the barrier that exist in different industry , because the skill and talent of people work in oil and gas can be transfer to renewable energy . we want to make sure that we do that . the hon . Lady talk about vulnerable resident and the cost of heating , and she be absolutely right to do so . we have all suffer from the huge cost of living crisis cause by Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . we be do what we can , and 6 million people will now get the £ 150 warm home discount this winter , which will help with their energy bill . the hon . Lady ask about the windfall tax . the clue be in the name : it be a tax on windfall profit . while the oil and gas industry be make windfall profit , there will be a windfall tax ; when it be not , there will not be . that be the way the scheme work , but her point on the need to insulate home — we be work at pace on that — and to support vulnerable people be absolutely right . the basic principle be that we have an energy bill rise drive by fossil fuel , so we must move to home - grow power for our energy security and for long - term bill reduction . rise — order . if question be not keep short , member will prevent their colleague from get in . I congratulate the Minister on set out a plan that support job , skill and community in the face of technological change — unlike the conservative party , which abandon wholesale our industrial base in the 1980 . like the north - east of Scotland , the north - east of England have job , skill and opportunity that depend on the energy of the North sea . Kinewell Energy , in my constituency , lead in wind farm design optimisation . can the Minister confirm that she will work with the Mayor of the North East , Kim McGuiness , to ensure that the north - east of England benefit from the job and opportunity of the North sea ? I meet industry representative all the time , and their response to Kim McGuiness be great . she be such a force of enthusiasm , knowledge and power for her community , and people engage with she . they like what she say about invest in the north - east , and they be respond to she . she be make a real difference in her community . we be do all we can , through all kind of lever that the Government can use , to make sure that the investment in clean energy support all our community . my hon . friend be right to highlight the fact that we need to take advantage of the particular skill of people in the north - east . I call the Father of the House . when I climb the hill behind my home in the Lincolnshire wold , I can see , 20 mile away , a wonderful array of wind turbine in the North sea . we love it locally — we love it for our economy — but nothing in that preclude oil and gas exploration . if we in Lincolnshire be do so much for green energy , why be we allow the bread basket of England to be cover with solar farm ? we have 10 , 000 acre of they around Gainsborough , and there be another application for 3 , 900 acre at North Clifton . will the Minister and her boss please look at such mass application in the round so that there be not overdevelopment in the break basket of England ? the right hon . Gentleman paint a lovely picture of walk up the hill in his constituency — I be sure we would all enjoy do that . he make an important point about solar . we need to make sure that we be take people with we and do the right thing , which be what we be try to do . we know that even if we push as far as we could on solar , it would still account for less than 1 % of the overall land and the same proportion of our agricultural land — it be a small amount . he be right to want to make sure that his constituent have an environment that they like and enjoy . it be equally right to say that we will need infrastructure in our community , and that people should see a benefit where we ask they to have infrastructure . there be the solar taskforce , which be look at all these issue . it be good to see the Government take a very sensible approach in the consultation to work with our european partner on how we develop renewable energy and get energy cost down . as with so many other area , our constituent have pay high bill because the previous Government refuse to work with our european counterpart . can the Minister give we a bit more detail ? as we look to expand our capacity to create renewable energy , she will be very aware that there be a risk of an £ 800 million charge because of the variation between our emission trading scheme . can she also tell we a bit more about what work with the North Seas Energy Co - operation might entail , and whether we might rejoin that organisation to help drive down bill far for our constituent ? my hon . friend raise a number of thorny issue relate to ETS , for which I be responsible in the Department . we have be have lot of conversation about how we progress , what the EU do , what we do and what we need to do move forward . these thing be enormously complicated , because pull a lever here will have an unintended consequence over there , so we be tread carefully , as she would expect . on the EU partnership and the new relationship that we have with our partner , they be incredibly important . today the Prime Minister be with the Taoiseach in Ireland , and we be agree an energy partnership . we will be work together in the Celtic sea and the Irish sea to speed up progress on wind turbine by use datum and our resource to look at our marine landscape and get to a point where private investor can invest quick . these thing be worth do , and we will certainly carry on do they . I be in favour of net zero , and this country have achieve a great deal in work towards that , but what planet be the Minister ' s Department on ? be she unaware that there be now a national security crisis that demand much high defence expenditure ? be she aware that the cost of net zero be inflict untold harm on our industry and have do for some year ? it be now time to prioritise economic growth , to target cheap energy instead of net zero , and to generate growth and energy export in order that we can afford the defence we need . the Department be live on another planet , and the Minister should listen to her Chancellor and her Business Secretary , who be try to give she this advice . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that I be on planet Earth and that we be well aware of what we be do . we look at the world around we and see the enormous hike in energy price , which be link to our be attach to the global market for oil and gas . the previous Government spend ten of billion of pound of taxpayer ' money in order to protect people against the price hike , and we can not allow that to happen again . it be absolutely right that we push for cheap renewable energy , and I remind the hon . Gentleman that I sit in two Departments : the Business Secretary be my boss , and the Energy Secretary be my boss . they both agree with this policy , as do the Chancellor , because it be the right thing to do . through support for job , support for skill , the prominence of the industrial strategy and support for a clean transition , the Minister have demonstrate what be possible when there be political will . to quote her word back to she , when will we be able to give the sector the support and clarity it need to continue operate for some decade ? the ceramic sector would love a package like this — or be the ceramics sector not sufficiently important enough ? I ask the Minister to keep her response short . forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be over - enthusiastic and have so many thing to say . I always worry when my hon . friend quote my word back to I . my hon . friend and I have talk often about ceramic , and I be well aware of the issue . we have a great debate in Westminster Hall this week on the ceramics industry ' s challenge with the transition and with energy price . we be well aware of all of they , and we be work to fix they . I give as much time to ceramic as I do to any other industry , and I will continue to do so . the Minister have previously say that energy security be national security . why , then , be she cut energy job in the North sea , yet impose and buy from energy technology company in China — at good one of our competitor , at bad our enemy — instead of invest in this country for high - pay , high - skilled job in the North sea ? I be not sure how many time I will have to go through this , but we be not cut energy job . the North sea be decline because there be less and less oil and gas there . the work the previous Government do on renewable energy secure no supply chain for this country , so we be reliant on other country , as the hon . member point out . we be put in place incentive for supply chain to be in this country , so that we make more . I be deliver a steel strategy to make sure that we use steel from this country for our clean energy future . these be the policy we be put in place to make sure we have a manage transition , clean energy , low bill and energy security . I thank the Minister for her statement , and for the role she play in secure a future for the Methil and arnish yard in my constituency under the new ownership of Navantia , with new and secure job for the future . I be glad she be take no lesson from the shadow Minister , give that under his government ' s watch , 70 , 000 job be lose from the North sea . what we have today be an industrial strategy that look after job , secure a future for the North sea and ensure that we will be there for another two generation . can she explain how thing such as a skill passport , our investment in GB Energy and our investment in the Cromarty firth — and , I hope , in port such as Stornoway — will ensure that future ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; it have be a pleasure to work with he and to see the way he have champion his community during the conversation we have have about Navantia and Harland & Wolff . the industrial strategy be there for a reason . the previous Government be ideologically oppose to one , for reason that nobody quite understand . we be set up a british energy company , which the Conservatives oppose for reason we do not quite understand . whether it be Grangemouth , Harland & Wolff , the FLOWMIS money for the port of Cromarty firth , our auction round for offshore wind , or hydrogen , we be put in place the support to make sure that we build an industry we can all be proud of . energy bill be up £ 300 on Labour ' s watch , while our industry cry out for certainty from this Labour Government , who have offer little more than confusion , hostility and prevarication . the Minister talk about clarity and certainty , but what she have give we be another consultation . however , she do not need another consultation to give we certainty on the Acorn carbon capture project at St Fergus , which be a no - brainer if she be serious about economic growth . will the Minister confirm today that Scotland will finally receive this long overdue investment for the Acorn project in the spring statement later this month ? if only I be able to confirm what will be in the spring statement , but clearly I can not do that . we be hugely supportive of the Acorn project , which be an exciting opportunity . we will be invest £ 21 . 7 billion in carbon capture , after year of failure and prevarication by the previous Government . that be obviously subject to the spending review , and I can not give the hon . member the answer he be after , but I think this be a really exciting opportunity for Scotland . I have meet representative of many of the business involve and talk to they about what the potential could be . I welcome the statement , particularly the Minister ' s commitment that oil and gas will be with we for decade to come . be she as surprised as I be to hear the announcement from Reform UK of a renewable investment tax that would destroy job in the North sea and in place such as Hartlepool , which I represent , as well as expose we to Vladimir Putin , and do she suspect that that be what Reform UK actually want ? my hon . friend be completely right to expose Reform ' s argument for the nonsense they be . the CBI bring out a report a week or so ago show that the net zero economy grow by 10 % , which be much fast than the wide economy . this be deliver job already , as well as investment from around the world , in part because we be the second most attractive country in the world in which to invest , as PwC have tell we . the reality be that we can bring down bill , secure good job and make ourselves more energy secure , and Reform be live in the past . as the Minister know , the North sea renewable sector have be very beneficial to my Brigg and Immingham constituency , and I support proposal that will enhance and speed up the development of that sector . however , many business in the constituency be struggle because of energy cost , as my hon . friend have mention . can the Minister give an assurance that , particularly where energy - intensive industry be involve , the Government will bear in mind the consumer , be they business or domestic ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and indeed for the good relationship we have build up from his speak on behalf of his constituent in relation to steel and other sector that we have talk about . of course , energy - intensive industry talk to we about energy price , and we be look to see what we can do . I hold a roundtable last week with the energy - intensive industry — steel , chemical , ceramic of course , and other — and we be look at what we can do to make sure they can be profitable and grow . Conservative - lead North East Lincolnshire council have embrace the green industry that be help to reshape our identity in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes , and it be play a critical role in decarbonise our energy estuary . do the Minister agree that the Opposition ' s new anti - renewables position undermine the ambition of young people in my constituency , who be excite by this sector ? they be keen to work with these company , which do good , pay well , provide training and benefit the community . my hon . friend be stand up for the job and the young people in her community , and it be a shame that the national Conservative party opposition do not seem clear on what their policy be . where people can see the job and the benefit , council such as her Conservative - lead council support renewable , but for some reason Conservative Front Benchers do not . I do not understand that , but we will keep back this agenda because we know it will deliver job . a really interesting line in the Minister ' s statement show , in my opinion , the Labour Government ' s complete misunderstanding of the role of the North sea . she say that " the reality be that new licence … award in the past decade have make only a marginal difference to overall production . " however , that do not take into account the job they have support , the tax intake that come with they , and the skill , investment and expertise they have preserve and that will help in the transition to renewable energy . be the Minister say in her statement that she be actually willing to sacrifice all that to ideologically stop new licence in the North sea ? the previous Government oversee a loss of 70 , 000 job that they care not one jot about . they have no plan of support and no transition plan , and they allow that manage decline without any commitment . this government be do exactly the opposite . we be support that transition , we be support those worker and we be make sure we can transition people , grow the economy and deliver energy security at the same time . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , and indeed the fact that there be a plan . although the Tories now accept that they do not have a plan , which be at least an important admission , the result of that lack of a plan be that have be leave with uncertainty for both worker and consumer . in East Thanet , we need well job and low bill , and surely she will agree with I that the overall security of our energy be also vital . there be one solution , which be to get off fossil fuel and shift to renewable energy as soon as possible . my hon . friend be absolutely right . she be of course refer to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , who say yesterday that " one of the thing our party do not get right in government be set ambitious goal on … energy policy without have a clear … plan to deliver they . " — [ Official Report , 5 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 171WH . ] I entirely agree with he . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to no new oil and gas licence , and to put worker and community at the heart of the transition to a climate - safe economy . it be a bit disappointing to hear that so many conservative member still live on planet flat earth , with an ostrich approach to our energy future when what we need be a phoenix approach . I would like to ask the Minister a specific question . can she confirm that the 4 billion barrel of oil equivalent currently in the North sea will not be pump ? if it be , it would be the equivalent of run 15 coal - fire power station from now until 2050 . she will know the climate implication . will she confirm that the Government will stop consent for new production ? our manifesto be clear that we would not issue new licence , we would not revoke exist licence , we would manage exist field for the entirety of their lifespan , and we would ban fracke . the consultation be about the detail behind that . there be some complicated issue that we need to unpick , which be why we be have the consultation , why we welcome everybody ' s view , and why I hope the hon . Lady will add her voice to it . we be in the midst of yet another fossil fuel price spike , cause by our overreliance on international gas market . despite my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village be landlocke and quite far from the North sea , I be very proud to have GE Vernova ' s large UK base there , support over 1 , 700 job and provide some of the technology for over 30 % of UK electricity . do the Minister agree that there be only one solution to the price spike : to get off fossil fuel and move on to clean home - grow power here in the UK ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . what GE Vernova be do and the job it be provide be incredibly important for her community . we will continue to encourage growth in that sector and beyond through our industrial strategy with its eight sector plan , one of which be clean energy . these thing be all connect . we can grow the economy and deliver clean energy , and we can do it together . BP ' s global headquarter be in my constituency . as the Minister meet industry " all the time " , to use her word , she will be fully aware that it announce a major reset last month , whereby it be increase its investment in upstream oil and gas to the tune of $ 10 billion a year from next year . that be investor ' money , not taxpayer ' money . be the Minister not concerned that by make Britain a hostile environment for oil and gas extraction , we be simply kiss away that investment to overseas ? I meet BP yesterday to talk about that . if we look at somewhere like the US , there be massive supply of oil and gas . BP have make its decision . we be work with it very closely on carbon capture and hydrogen in particular . if we drill as much as we possibly could in the North sea , we would only find less than 1 % of the global market . this be a decline basin — that be a fact . it have decline significantly over the past decade and it will continue to do so . we need to manage that process and support people . BP be work very closely with the Government on our renewable agenda , and on carbon capture and hydrogen . the usual luddite tendency be on display on the Opposition Benches after 14 year of abject failure . this government be embrace the golden triangle : energy security to reduce bill , transition to net zero , and hundred of thousand of secure british job in Scotland and across the UK . do the Minister agree that if the shadow Minister , who have a great track record of lose job , do not want job in Scotland , we will have they in Cornwall ? my hon . friend be right to point to the golden triangle of energy security , job and climate , and how we can bring they together . I be work hard — not as hard as he ; he be work incredibly hard — on bring as many job as possible to his constituency . I look forward to continue to do that . rise — I keep repeat myself : short question please . as someone with two generation of their family who have depend on the North sea oil and gas industry , I know that we have to move away from fossil fuel and that we have to drive forward to the just transition , but we must also recognise that we be not there yet and that this be not the moment to push the industry off a cliff . it be decline naturally . we be leave ourselves in a position where we will still need oil , so will we import it ? we will need gas for hydrogen production , plastic , chemical and pharmaceutical . all of that be necessary . we also face a threat from the Chinese try to infiltrate our renewable , so what be the Government go to do about that ? as I hope I make clear , we be not revoke exist licence and we will manage the exist field for the entirety of their lifespan . as I also make clear , this be a decline basin and we need to manage the transition . the hon . Lady be absolutely right to point to the challenge , and I have great respect for her family history and for all those who work in oil and gas . she be right that we will need oil and gas for decade to come . we be try to have a sensible plan to manage that process and I hope she will take part in the consultation , too . the Minister have already allude to last week ' s CBI report , which set out some of the huge opportunity that net zero offer for job creation , investment and growth . will she outline to the House what step her Department be take to ensure we benefit from all that opportunity through great British Energy and the National Wealth Fund ? the National Wealth Fund and great British Energy will be incredibly important in this space . Most country have a sovereign wealth fund like the National Wealth Fund . we have set that up . Most country have their state energy company . we have load of state energy company — just other country ' . it be absolutely right that we set up our own . we also have the clean energy bonus , which will mean that we be encourage supply chain and job here in the UK , so we can move away from reliance on other country . with due deference to the newly appoint Minister for Aberdeen on the Conservative Benches , the question of these job be not a matter purely for the north - east or purely for Scotland . those 200 , 000 job be spread across every constituency in this country and they be all at risk . as we hear from the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , they be be push off a cliff edge . the Minister talk about our energy bill be in the hand of Vladimir Putin . do she not agree with I that we be stick between a rock and a hard place ? we have Vladimir Putin on one side drive up energy bill and her dogmatic Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on the other . I do not agree with that framing whatsoever . we have Putin who invade Ukraine , lead to the massive global shock for energy price , and we have a Secretary of State who be very pragmatically take forward plan to , as the triangle tell we , protect and grow job , and give we energy security . I think most people in the country understand that . they get that we need energy security and to tackle the climate at the same time . scandalously , the worker of the Grangemouth refinery be to be the victim of a very unjust transition . the folly of a foreign state and private capital be in charge of such a key vital piece of energy infrastructure be lay bare , especially with no UK Government involvement . I be curious as to what ownership role the UK Government will take in the new energy industry that will be at Grangemouth . my hon . friend will know about the announcement that be make recently about support for Grangemouth . in the last couple of week , I meet ineo to talk about its chemical factory and the huge contribution it bring in term of job and the provision of chemical . the £ 200 million investment from the National Wealth Fund be really important in this space . the work that the Government have do to look at possible business and industry for Grangemouth in the future be really important and I be very happy to have a conversation with he . final question . while I very much welcome the move towards clean energy , my concern be that we can not allow energy price to rise any far , especially when we take into account the loss of the winter fuel payment for many pensioner on the poverty line . how will the Minister ensure that clean energy and heat will not be out of reach for those who be already struggle : the elderly , the vulnerable , those in poor health and those in poverty ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important point . we know that energy bill have be rise because of the oil and gas we rely on and the impact of the war in Ukraine . we have massively increase the warm home discount so that 6 million household will get £ 150 to help towards their energy bill , but he be right to champion people who be go through a cost of living crisis . we will do what we can to support they . that mark the end of the statement . I could not get all colleague in because question be so long , and answer be occasionally just as lengthy . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on second reading of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill on 12 February , I raise concern over the accuracy and reliability of datum with the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms , the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , particularly in relation to verification of sex . he undertake to write to I , which indeed he have : " digital verification service can be use to prove sex or gender in the same way that individual can already prove their sex use their passport for example . " that be a direct quote from the letter . in fact , a passport do no such thing ; it say what sex someone likely be . for example , if it say someone be female , it mean they be likely female , but they could be male with a gender recognition certificate , or a male person who have a letter from their doctor say that they be likely to continue live as though a female for the rest of their life . this have be the case for many year . I be worried that this letter , which have be put in both Libraries , may mislead the House , or indeed any constituent who may need to read it . how can I correct the record in this regard ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give notice of her point of order . I understand that she have notify the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore that she intend to raise the matter in the Chamber . the Chair be not responsible for the accuracy of ministerial correspondence . however , the hon . Lady have put her point on the record , and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will indeed take note . SUPPLY and APPROPRIATION ( anticipation and adjustment ) BILL Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 56 ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . question put forthwith , that the Bill be now read the third time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Backbench Business International Women ' s Day I beg to move , that this House have consider International Women ' s Day . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate and draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be an ambassador for Ask for Angela , a great scheme whereby someone feel unsafe in a club can go to the bar and talk to somebody , and they will help in any way they can . I be also an ambassador for fair pay with the global fair pay charter , which aim to improve the live condition and pay for more than 25 million tea plantation worker worldwide , many of whom be woman . as we know , financial independence be a route out of an abusive relationship . I congratulate this Parliament on be the most diverse Parliament , with 41 % female member . we all know our number , Madam Deputy Speaker : I be the 286th woman to be elect to this House , and the first elect black female Minister in the UK , under Gordon Brown ' s Government . as shadow Minister , I be instrumental in get the International Women ' s Day flag fly over the House and in get the first iwd debate on the Floor of the House . I remember ask the Speaker at the time whether my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be now the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , could read out the name of the woman who have be kill by man to start the debate — just that , without a speech . I think it still take about seven or eight minute . ten year later , that list be still just as long ; it still take that amount of time . how can that be ? how can it be that a woman be still kill every three day by a partner or former partner ? there be still woman who be not count , such as woman who commit suicide because of domestic abuse and tran woman and girl . I have be think about this a lot . I have be tell that heterosexual or straight white man and boy feel that there be no long a place for they in society , and that be why they be turn to the far right . that really sadden I , because there be a place for everyone in society . there be , of course , a place for straight white man and boy ; there be a very important role for they to play in society . we will hear a lot today about the fact that one woman be kill every three day , and that 97 % of they be kill by man , the majority of whom be white . if we want to protect woman , we need to reach out to man — the one who be inform , kind and loving — and we need to say , " we need you now , more than ever before . " right now , there be some serious , toxic , misogynistic man — some of whom be straight — and they be harm woman , society , gay people and black people . this be the very foundation on which we live . we need to say no . in the UK , a woman be murder by a current or former partner every week . accord to research from woman ' s aid , 46 % of woman have face some form of abuse in an intimate relationship during their lifetime . give these harrowing statistic , we must confront domestic abuse for what it truly be : a national emergency . do she agree that lifesave specialist domestic abuse service , which have be chronically underfunde , must receive the investment that they so desperately need ? my hon . friend hit on an important point . we absolutely need that investment . if we be serious about save life , we need to do whatever it take . if we want to see a reduction in the number of woman be kill , we need to invest in make that happen . we also need to have those uncomfortable conversation . it be not tough to hit woman , as be spout by Andrew Tate , or to rape woman , or to ridicule woman or girl because they have say no . we have to have those conversation . we have to say , " this be wrong . " we have to talk to all the man feel like that . I be wear a male shirt and tie today , but it do not mean that the world be go to run out of male shirt and tie . there be enough to go around for everybody , and we have to have that conversation . we have to show man love woman . we have to educate boy and girl . it be interesting that some father treat their daughter like princess , and think that by treat they that way , their daughter will learn how to be treat , but the reality be that they will learn by how their father treat his partner . I can not stay for the debate , unfortunately , but I want to have this on the record . the statistic on the murder of woman in Northern Ireland be the high in the United Kingdom . the Minister know that . do the hon . Lady agree that when it come to address the murder of woman across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we need a strategy that start here in Westminster and sweep out to the rest of the region ? we have to well manage and respond to this issue and protect our woman and lady and young girl , both in Northern Ireland and across the United Kingdom . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . I be sure he will be forgive for miss half of a debate today . woman be be kill — that be a fact . we have get too used to talk about the statistic without think about who be at the end of it , and that we be lose a woman every three day to murder . it start somewhere . at the end of the day , the way that woman be demonise and attack , and the way that we attack tran woman — it start somewhere . it be a deliberate act and action . I also want to thank organisation such as the Fawcett Society , Centenary Action — whose all - party parliamentary group I co - chair with the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) — and the Asian Women ' s Resource Centre in Brent . it be important that we start to celebrate woman , as the Mayor do in rename the Overground line . the line that I get on be rename the Lioness line . at first , I be a little confused — I think , " be I on the right train ? " now , though , I smile , because I know that when people ask why it be call the Lioness line , the response will always be , " because a really great female football team bring the cup home . " those be the little thing that we can do that will make a big difference . many man feel insecure about that , so we need to tell they not to worry and to just chill . there be man who say that we should not talk about first — woman who be first to do this , or first to do that . I say that we should celebrate those woman , because they show that we have make a bit of progress . for example , we have the first female Deputy Speaker of colour in the Chair — congratulation on that , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] we have the first female metro mayor , Tracy Brabin and the first register blind MP for Battersea , my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) . I could spend my whole time talk about all those first , but we do still have a way to go . there be more good people in the world than bad . I see man in power say , " Don ' t celebrate woman . Don ' t talk about woman . " some even say , " erase woman " , which be really quite scary . they be literally try to erase woman and our achievement , but I know that there be man who can and must speak out . the reality be that we have some aggressive , white supremacist male who be say that woman should not exist , or that we belong in the kitchen and that be it . we can not go backwards . we have come too far , so that just ain ' t go to happen . if I be to ban step — I ask Members to bear with I for a moment — and replace they with a slope , would that stop people from get to their destination ? no , it would not , but would it help people who have problem with walk or who be in a wheelchair to get to their destination ? yes , it would . this be not necessarily about take something away . it can be about change something to help other people also get to their destination . to all those boy and man who feel that they have to turn to the far right or to become incel , I say , " be it time to change ? be it time for you to change how you talk , how you act , and the attitude that you take ? would you like your mother , your sister , your girlfriend or your partner to be talk about or treat in the way that you treat woman ? " my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . I be sure that all those young woman in Brent and north London who be watch she will be very proud . one topic that often come up in our local mother ' WhatsApp chat be social medium . my hon . friend be talk a lot about change . statistic show that , after spend time online and on social medium , 40 % of young woman and girl feel lonely and depressed because of all the online abuse . do she think that social media platform need to take some responsibility for the content that be amplify through their platform ? social medium platform have a vital role to play . they understand that negativity spread fast than positivity . in the old day of legacy medium , it be often say , " if it bleed , it lead " . those platform be absolutely aware of the damage that they do . they will not voluntarily make the change that they need to make and , as a Government , we need to legislate for those change to be make . when I watch the story of the Women ' s Army Corps unit of colour , which star Kerry Washington as Captain Charity Adams , I actually cry . the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion contribute to the war effort in a unique way . they sort through 17 million piece of mail and deliver it to american soldier on the frontline . those 855 black woman improve morale and bring hope to the frontline , yet after go through all of that , they be discriminate against and history try to erase they . we have to wonder why that be . why do people continually try to erase woman and people of colour from history ? I thank my hon . friend for give way and for secure this debate . as we mark International Women ' s day , I have to say that I be proud — absolutely honoured — to stand here not only as a black woman , but as a former nurse . however , black people be four time more likely to be detain under the Mental Health Act 1983 . do she agree that we can only truly say that we have honour International Women ' s day when this glaring disparity be address ? my hon . friend be also a first , so I congratulate she on that — and , yes , I absolutely agree with she on that point . on average , we will all live to see 80 christmas . the thing be , what be we go to do with they ? some people in the world be act like they will live forever — God , I hope we do not , and I know that that will not be the case — but some pass through the world , leave it just as they find it . our job in Parliament be to change the world for the well . we need to leave an indelible footprint by ensure that the world protect all woman , not just straight , white woman . we should start with the gay woman , the black woman and the disabled woman . if we protect those , we will protect all woman and the world will be a well place . I often say that I can not get my right until everybody have their right , because our right and our life be very much intertwine — whether we believe it or not . and just because I be pro - woman , pro - lgbtqi + and pro - black , it do not mean , as have be say online , that I be anti - white ; far from it . I be pro - jerk chicken and rice and pea and I still love a bit of pie and mash and fish and chip . we can love more than one thing and be pro many thing . I want to end with a cold reality check . in Malcolm Gladwell ' s brilliant book , " the Tipping Point " and in his follow - up book " Revenge of the Tipping Point " , he talk about the law of the very few , the overstory and the counterfactual line " what would have happen if " . we be slowly win the war on highlight violence against woman and girl , highlight injustice and highlight discrimination , but we do not appreciate the honest conversation that we need to have around how epidemic work , or appreciate the power of group proportion . we be fool ourselves if we think that we bear no responsibility for this epidemic of violence against woman and girl . epidemic have rule and they have boundary . they be subject to overstorie , and we in society be in a position of power to create those overstorie . these overstorie change in size and shape when they reach a tipping point and it be possible to know when we be reach that tipping point . we be currently at that tipping point when it come to violence against woman and girl . the opioid crisis in the US be a lesson for we all . Most of the medical profession act professionally , but a tiny fraction — just a few — do not , and that be enough to fuel an opioid epidemic in the US . that tiny fraction be drive by a certain class of people , and those people can be identify . the tool need to control an epidemic be right in front of we . they be sit on the table , and we can either grab those tool or let the unscrupulous people grab they . if we grab they , we can build a well world . we need to take action and have an honest conversation . we need to ensure that organisation that believe in diversity , equality and inclusion and fair pay get the procurement contract . we need to be mindful about the social medium platform that we use , and we need to elect people who care for many people , not just the 1 % . by do that , we will accelerate action , which be the theme of International Women ' s Day this year . I end with a message to the straight white boy and man in the middle of the table : " we need your protection , we need your love , we need your care and we need your kindness . " we know , as I have say , that daughter and young girl learn how to be treat by their partner by watch how man treat woman in their life , and young boy learn how to be man from the man in their life , so we need all man , regardless of colour , class and economic status , to lead by example . woman be literally fight for their life . I want every single man in the world watch this debate to join we in that struggle . we should all believe in fairness . we should all believe in end discrimination and homophobia . in the time that it have take I to make this speech , one woman globally will have be kill by her partner or a family member . may her soul rest in peace . it be a privilege to speak in today ' s International Women ' s Day debate . I thank the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for secure it . I want to use the opportunity to pay tribute to the extraordinary contribution of scottish woman , and particularly those from my constituency and the wide north - east Scotland . when we be speak about woman break barrier , I need look no far than Methlick in Aberdeenshire , the birthplace of Dame Evelyn Glennie . profoundly deaf from the age of 12 , Dame Evelyn do not just overcome that challenge but revolutionise our understanding of how music can be experience , feel vibration all through her body to become the world ' s first full - time solo percussionist . with over 100 performance worldwide each year and have commission more than 200 new work , she have show how determination can transform what many would see as a limitation into a unique strength . in Inverurie , the large town in my constituency , we have Hannah Miley , who train at the Garioch amateur swimming club before represent Great Britain at the London 2012 and Rio 2016 Olympics . what many do not know about her remarkable story , however , be that she spend her life training in a 25 - metre pool rather than the olympic - standard 50 - metre facility of her competitor , often share lane with the public . she go on to become a Commonwealth gold medallist and now inspire the next generation of swimmer across Scotland . in the realm of science , Aberdeen ' s Professor Dame Anne Glover stand as a testament to scottish woman ' s intellectual prowess . not only do she serve as the first chief scientific adviser in Scotland but she become the first chief scientific adviser to the president of the European Commission . her pioneer work in microbial biosensor at the University of Aberdeen have place our region at the forefront of scientific innovation . in agriculture , which be so important to my constituency , we see woman take ever more prominent role . Jane Craigie from Aberdeenshire exemplify that leadership as a co - founder of the Rural Youth Project , which connect young people with opportunity in agriculture . the skill and determination of woman farmer be essential to our local economy and the future of Scotland ' s agricultural sector . it would be remiss of I not also to mention Professor Lorna Dawson CBE , who be base in Aberdeen at the James Hutton Institute . as of 2025 , she have continue her pioneer work in soil forensic and have help to solve numerous criminal case , advise police investigation across the UK . Professor Dawson be recently award the Royal Society of Edinburgh ' s James Hutton medal for her exceptional contribution to earth and environmental science . her work connect soil science to justice demonstrate how expertise from our region be make a difference both nationally and internationally . of course , it would be wrong for anyone on the conservative Benches not to acknowledge the ground - break legacy of Margaret Thatcher , the UK ' s first female Prime Minister whose determination to succeed in a male - dominate political world open door for woman across the political spectrum . her legacy continue to inspire woman in politic every day . finally , and most important to I , there be my mum , who be , as far as have be report , the first woman mechanic on an all - weather lifeboat when she join the crew of a station in Ireland in 1998 . there really be nothing more inspiring — if not a bit scary — for an eight - year - old to watch their mum pull on her drysuit and head out to sea in gale force condition . she would not forgive I if I do not emphasise the open - mindedness of the man on the crew who , almost 30 year ago , be willing and able to see her potential , not her gender . just this morning , my mum tell I : " I only become a mechanic because the crew be willing to give I a chance . decade of tradition with fisherman take I to sea and allow I to achieve it — particularly Tony the coxswain . if the crew hadn ' t be so open - minded , I wouldn ' t have become one . " let we use this International Women ' s day to reaffirm our commitment to empower woman and create a more equitable future for all . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for introduce this incredibly important International Women ' s Day debate . the debate be always well attend , but it be also one of the most informative and heartfelt debate we have in Parliament . I be incredibly proud to take part as Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . it have be say that the Committee have have quite a fly start . we have do a lot , but I answer that with the fact that there be a lot to do . this year ' s International Women ' s Day theme , as have already be say , be " Accelerate Action " , and we know that we can not slow down ; we do have to accelerate , and not just with word but with action . on behalf of the whole Committee , I be proud to say that we will not be slow down any time soon . in less than a year , we have focus our work very much on key area — we have also continue the fantastic work of the previous Committee — and particularly on health . last year , we produce a report on woman ' s reproductive health , which we call " Medical Misogyny " . some people say , " that ' s quite strong , " but frankly we could not describe the evidence that we have see in the inquiry as anything other than medical misogyny . diagnosis for adenomyosis and endometriosis take on average eight year . that be the average , so there be people wait much long than eight year just for diagnosis , not treatment . that be woman be ignore and be leave in pain . I know woman who have be eventually diagnose with adenomyosis or endometriosis but be fob off time and again by medical practitioner and doctor . they be tell , " have some paracetamol , a hot water bottle and a lie down and you ' ll be fine . " that , again , be an example of where woman be ignore to the detriment of their health as well as our country ' s health and our economy ' s health . painful procedure such as hysteroscopy and intrauterine device fitting be still take place for woman without any offer of pain relief . a sharp pinch ? no , not on my nelly be that a sharp pinch . again , I be grateful that man do not have to endure that pain , but why be it that woman still do ? even though the guideline have change , woman be still have to go through incredibly painful procedure without the relief that they deserve . one recommendation in our report make clear the need to educate our young people well about what to expect for woman ' s reproductive health — that go for boy as well as girl . we need to end the stigma of period , and period poverty in particular . young people also need to know what be normal . we be often tell , " it ' s normal that your period will hurt . you ' ll bleed and you ' re go to be uncomfortable , " but it be not normal to be curl up in bed for seven day . it be not normal for period or menstrual cycle to be so painful that they stop we from go to school , take part in PE or go to work . all those thing be not normal , yet it have be ingrain in we that it be normal for we to be in pain and that it be normal for our life to be disrupt by our hormone and everything that be happen with our body . frankly , it be not . that be why one of the recommendation make it clear that we need to do well to educate ourselves and our young people and enable our educator to have the tool and the resource they need so that the next generation of woman — and young man — know exactly what happen to a woman ' s body . when it come to research — this stick in my mind when we be do the report — far too much have be tailor towards man and man ' s medical need . we know that the average paracetamol dose , for example , be the correct dosage for a western male , not for a woman . it be the same with seatbelt and everything else . but here be something : five time more research go into erectile dysfunction , which affect 19 % of man , than premenstrual syndrome , which affect 90 % of woman . when we talk about action , we need to see it across the board , particularly in health . there be progress — absolutely , there be — and I be so proud that we will see the Employment Rights Bill come forward next week . but there be always way to improve — always . the Committee produce a report in January that look specifically at miscarriage bereavement leave . that issue be very close to my heart , and I know that many inside and outside this Chamber have long campaign for the right to grieve the loss of a pregnancy follow miscarriage . we have see some movement , and that be incredibly welcome . now be the time for action . there be thousand of employer out there that already offer bereavement leave for worker who miscarry . many be private sector employer and , let we be honest , they be not do it out of the kindness of their heart . they be do it because it be financially rewarding , it be reputationally good and it be good for their worker . they include massive company such as TUI , which I go to visit last week at the hangar in Luton airport . I do not contain my inner child when I sit in a cockpit , I will tell you that , but once I gather myself , I ask , " where be all the woman engineer ? " they say that they be really struggle , as they want to have more woman engineer . I also ask , " where be your woman apprentice ? " because they have fantastic apprenticeship there . they be so ripe and they be ready . I ask , " what be your workplace policy for miscarriage ? " they say , " do you know what ? I wish more people know . " TUI offer time off for grief , with miscarriage bereavement leave . there be company out there — the Co - operative Group be another — do the right thing and try to make sure that the workplace be right for woman . in the case of public sector employer , the NHS offer miscarriage bereavement leave for its worker . the large public sector employer of woman in our country offer bereavement leave for those who miscarry . I have have representative sit in front of I in two different Committees — the Public Accounts Committee pre - election and now the Women and Equalities Committee — and I ask they twice how much that cost . the chief finance officer for the NHS say it be de minimis . translation : basically nothing . it be not cost they anything to offer that ; if anything , it be save they in term of staff retention and length of time off sick . when we do not grieve well and do not have the space and time to grieve , we store up problem in the long term . I think society have catch up with that ; it be time the law do too . we hear in Committee about the difference that a change in law could make , from woman who be brave enough to give testimony of their experience of multiple miscarriage , and of have to drive themselves to hospital because their partner or their husband could not take time off and nearly bleed to death along the way . I know the difference a change in law could make and how angry I be when I have to take sick pay . when I have my three miscarriage , people be really lovely and I be very open about it , but not one single person say to I , " get well soon . " they say , " I be sorry for your loss . " if society have move on and realise that miscarriage and pregnancy loss be a loss and not a sickness , it be time our law do as well . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) mention maternal health in her intervention , and I know that we will hear more about the need to close the gap on maternal death rate for black mother . Clo and Tinuke at five x More be do fantastic work on that , and I praise everybody who be work to close that gap , because it be much need . yesterday , at the Select Committee , we hear evidence on female genital mutilation . there be an estimate 137 , 000 victim of FGM in our country , and I fear that number be much high from the evidence we hear yesterday on the level of under - reporting . there be much noise and much movement and progress make 10 year ago , but that progress have stall . some of the training manual for doctor and midwife be 10 year out of date . they be well past time for review , and in the last 10 year , we have see about three prosecution for FGM . I know that prosecution be perhaps not where we need to be , and I do not want to predetermine the outcome of the report , but prevention be a huge part of the answer . we will present our report accordingly . another area on which we have produce a report be technology , which have already be touch upon . we produce a very chunky report on non - consensual intimate image abuse , which be a deeply personal crime that can have life - change and life - threaten consequence , as the live experience of inquiry witness Georgia Harrison demonstrate . the Committee hear shocking evidence about the scale and impact of NCII abuse , with a tenfold increase in just four year and more than 22 , 000 report case in 2024 . every victim of a sexual offence deserve to be treat with respect and have their case investigate promptly and effectively by the police ; however , that be not what we hear . in many case , police treatment of victim of intimate image abuse have be characterise by a lack of understanding and in some case misogyny , with officer choose to patronise victim rather than support they . that be totally unacceptable and must change . we welcome the Government ' s proposal to make create NCIIs an offence , but a legal gap remain . NCIIs can continue to circulate online year after the image be post . even though many site will eventually remove the content when prompt , around 10 % do not . there be not yet enough in the Government ' s proposal in the Crime and Policing Bill to address that concern . we would love to see the Government bring forward amendment to the Bill to make possession of NCIIs , in addition to their creation , an offence . that will put NCIIs on the same footing as child sexual abuse material in how they be treat online and , we hope , provide the necessary encouragement to block or disrupt access to such content , particularly that which have be host overseas . we be also do work on community cohesion , gendere Islamophobia , share parental leave and woman in business and entrepreneur , which be incredibly important because the Government be focus on growth . woman must play a significant part in that . there be a lot that I could talk about ; there be far too much in this speech already , and I be sure that there will be load in this debate . but we live in an increasingly divisive world , and woman be at the sharp end of it . why do we even need an international Women ' s Day debate ? to be honest , I really wish we do not , but we need it because progress be not inevitable . we be see in country such as Iraq the lowering of the age of consent to nine . " Nine " and " consent " : those two word do not go together ; a child can not give consent . woman ' s body be be use as weapon of war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , in Kashmir , in the middle east and in Xinjiang — the list go on . it be hard to be a woman than it should be . one day , I really hope that we will need International Women ' s Day not to highlight the problem or ask for action but to celebrate the progress . there have be progress make , and I want to end on a high note , which be sport . woman ' s sport : I love it — absolutely adore it — and I know that there be some big fan here . from the Lionesses to Luton Town Ladies , there be fantastic success . I be all excited when the Lionesses be on television , but I be so glad that when I say to my five - year - old girl , " look at this ! look at woman ' s football ! it ' s on the television ! " , she look at I and go , " yeah , " and shrug her shoulder . for she , that be the norm ; it be not something special . for I , it be something special to see that , but for she , it be the norm . I want it to be the norm for every little girl in our country . I will now do something that be a little bit left - field for I . I go to a Sky Sports event and it be fantastic . Sporty Spice be there , so the 16 - year - old I be even more excited than in the cockpit of a plane . there be fantastic sportswoman but also the people who support and show the sport and show that there be money and progress to be have from it and that people want to watch and consume it and cheer sportswoman on from the stand . at the start of the event , there be an incredible speak word piece — there be also a song , but do not worry , I will not sing — by a fantastic and beautiful artist call Sophia Thakur . we all know that famous Barbie monologue ; we have all hear it , haven ' t we ? for I , this just go one step far , and I will end by read just a little bit of what she say . it be call " Gladiators " : they say you ' re strong for a girl . or fast for a woman . how can she be a girl ? how can gold be a woman ? they call you a butterfly because they see those wing . I know you ' re the eagle type , high above these thing . they say to act like a girl , but the whole world wouldn ' t be if we deceive our power . the land tremble as we rise from the dust come our tower . but we meet these mountain that we be expect to climb . but with no sweat , no muscle , no grind . but with makeup and gentleness , and the kind of competitiveness that ' s comfortable for they and kind . they ' re like , " would you mind maintain your shape ? your figure 8 . Don ' t get too strong . practise a soft voice and some grace . but still win . still first place but like a lady might . " funny there . it ' s when I ' m my strong , I feel most like the lady type . when these leg activate and I can jump to crazy height . when these shoulder broaden and I can carry both the world and its opinion straight to the finish . God bless the strength in these arm . ah , how they have hold I over the year . and God bless the sister I have find sit across from my fear . this table be lay before we in the presence of our frenemie . we ' re celebrate for our win . whilst they berate our anatomy . to be a woman be to live twice . to live firstly for the thing that you love and then a second life for the fight . one mind for the game and then this other for the might that it might take to still choose this day after day . give the girl two gold medal . give the woman double the pay . give they triple their portion . let your applause reverberate . sing her song when you sing of the great and strike for a woman from after her name because if she have change the face of the whole game , she be victorious over history . would you like to be as you grow ? who would you like to become as you age ? would you like to be pretty , have your face across page , or would you like to be demure ? know for your softness and your patience or a girl . tell I how would you like to become a gladiator . to all the woman gladiator in this place , past and present , and outside it — thank you . one day , International Women ' s Day will be about the realisation of all our hope and ambition . until that day , I be proud to be gladiator with you . rise — order . we start with an immediate four - minute time limit . I be honour to speak in this debate in advance of International Women ' s Day on Saturday 8 March , which I will be celebrate with the all - woman steam train crew at Rheilffordd Talyllyn railway in Tywyn . international Women ' s day remain as relevant now as ever . we , and the generation of woman who have come before we , have achieve so much since the first International Women ' s Day in 1911 , but we still have a long way to go . when we talk about a gender - equal society , let we be clear about where we mean : in the home , in public space , in the workplace . here in Westminster , we celebrate that 40 % of this Parliament be now woman . indeed , we be take a photograph just yesterday morning to that effect . in the Senedd , the cross - party woman ' s caucus have be re - establish — a bold show of force between woman across the political divide . those be positive step towards a gender balance but not necessarily towards gender equality , include equally safe workplace , which I will speak about now . member will know that a 2023 TUC poll find that three in five woman have experience sexual harassment , bullying or verbal abuse in the workplace . report of sexual assault , rape , stalk and coercive control from colleague make up around 50 % of call make to the Rights of Women sexual harassment at work advice line , but as it stand , protection be limited . the Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Act 2023 create a preventive duty for employer to take reasonable step to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace , but an automatic investigation into a breach of that duty only take place after an individual successfully bring a claim of sexual harassment , and many other form of gender - base violence in the workplace be exclude . meanwhile , the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 , which be so familiar to employer , place a duty on employer to ensure the health , safety and welfare of employee at work . why not use the tough mechanism we have in the workplace to tackle workplace gender - base harassment and violence too ? that be exactly what my Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 ( amendment ) Bill , develop with the brilliant Suzy Lamplugh Trust and Rights of Women seek to do , alongside new clause 39 and 40 to the Employment Rights Bill , which would have the same effect . I hope that hon . member will consider support those new clause . my Bill would introduce clear , actionable duty for employer to protect worker from violence and harassment , include risk assessment , policy development and the provision of recognition and prevention training to all employee . those boring - sound thing would make a difference in the workplace and to people ' s life . the Bill would mandate the Health and Safety Executive , which do not currently consider gender - base violence a workplace hazard and be not view as the primary authority for bullying , harassment or domestic abuse in the workplace , to develop and publish an enforceable health and safety framework on violence and harassment in the workplace and to issue guidance for employer . leverage health and safety legal framework that be already in place would require employer to actively work towards eliminate gender - base violence , while establish a systematic and publicly enforceable approach to the prevention of , and safeguard from , the spectrum of gender - base violence in the workplace . if these be the difference we wish to make — difference to woman ' s live in the workplace — let we use all the power we have at our disposal and make they work for woman more effectively than they presently do . let ' s use all our power . I hope everyone enjoy International Women ' s Day on Saturday . it be an honour to be here today as the first MP to represent Bolsover who be a woman . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you . I be surround by fantastic woman not only here , but in Bolsover — woman who run business and nurture our next generation , such as foster carer Sonja Dayson in Creswell , woman who inspire we as community leader , such as Helen Marriott of Pinxton scout , with nearly four decade of dedication , and woman who support charity to thrive and fight to make a difference with tenacity , like Edwina can not of Bolsover Woodlands Enterprise . I will spend this week celebrate they all and more . today I want to talk about the hide issue that affect we woman — too often our private burden . if we look at the last Parliament , the BBC be discuss more often than childcare . fishing be five time more likely to be mention than menopause . this historic House , which woman die to get we into , spend more time discuss football than rape . my daughter — she be brave and wonderful — tell I , " Mum , every time you talk about rape , every time you say the word , I bristle . please do not stop . " my baby — my little baby — be about to start big school . the datum tell I that while she be there , she will witness sexual harassment and potentially be send dick pic , and there be nothing that I can do to protect she from that . this be not a class or age thing ; it do not matter how far we go back . it be an accepted part of the story of Mary Queen of Scots that the noble choose among themselves who be go to rape she with the intention of impregnate she . yet we still do not accept that that happen in the UK . ten birth happen every day from rape . there be no charity to support those woman and no advice on the NHS website . the man can access those child at any time they like . every single one of we have either be rape or know someone who have be rape . rape be a part of our story as woman , yet it be a part that we do not tell . I want to tell you about rape and be an MP . rape threat be an accepted part of the job . I thank the Minister for speak up about this disgusting truth . I be the 690th woman MP . Rape Crisis estimate that a quarter of woman have be rape or sexually assault . if we apply that datum to mps , that mean that 172 of we have be rape , and half of they — 86 woman mp — will have be rape more than once . statistically , 28 of they will have report it . give a miracle , or on an optimistic day , one could have lead to a conviction — at the very good . I thank my hon . friend for give way during her extremely powerful speech . will she remind everybody of the importance not only of the fact of rape , but of prosecute and convict the perpetrator of those rape , so that we remember that this be not simply about a passive violence against woman and girl , but about identify the cause and the people who do those crime ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I be proud to be part of a Government who have set out an unprecedented ambition to halve violence against woman and girl , but what I want we to think about on this day be how we tell our story . I have speak publicly about give birth after be the victim of statutory rape , and I be sick of be tell I be brave . I do not want to be brave ; I want it to be expect that we tell our truth . courage call to courage everywhere . let we make it normal to talk about rape — in workplace , in kitchen , with friend . instead of bristle , let we talk about it like we talk about football ; let we talk to our boy about consent and celebrate the man who be our ally . most importantly , listen to she , support she and , for God ' s sake , believe she . if you be one of the colleague , friend or constituent who have tell I about your rape , I ask you to tell each other . you will be surprised how many people believe you and then share their story with you , too . I be the very proud nana of a beautiful granddaughter . she be four week old and name after one of the suffragette who help I to get here today . I genuinely believe that if we be brave now and make speak out the norm , we can have a world in which she tell her grandchild about the fact that they do it and we hide it . I want that to be the part that her grandchild do not believe . there be a lot to do and it can feel overwhelming , but let we put our arm around each other and use our power to force that shame to change side . I think that International Women ' s day be fantastic because it give I the opportunity to pay tribute to someone whose birthday would have be on International Women ' s Day have she not be bear in 1909 . I hope that she pass the " gladiator " bar to which the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) refer . Beatrice Shilling be one of the most consequential people of the 20th century that people have never hear of . she be bear in Waterlooville , Hampshire , and soon become one of those child who love take thing to bit — she win a Meccano prize . she save up her pocket money and buy she first motorbike at the age of 14 . by 1936 , she be only the second woman ever to record an average speed of 100 mph around the Brooklands circuit just over the River Thames from my Spelthorne constituency . by 1939 , Beatrice Shilling be at the Royal Aircraft Establishment . obviously , the second world war be upon we . crucially , the Rolls - Royce Merlin engine use in the Hurricanes and Spitfires have a fatal flaw : once pilot go into a negative g - force dive , the engine have a propensity to flood and cut out . the Germans do not have that problem because they have a fuel injector , and they soon work out that the british pilot face the dilemma of whether or not to follow they . that could have be catastrophic , so people turn to Tilly Shilling , as she be universally know , to come up with a solution . she invent a small thing — the size of a thimble — with a little hole in it , which could , crucially , be fit to the fuel line of the Merlin engine without take the plane to bit , mean that the much - need air power of the second world war could remain in the fight . Beatrice Shilling face a certain amount of male condescension . the device she have design be refer to as " Miss Shilling ' s orifice " . however , no one mind the fact that , when fit to the plane , the device keep they in the fight . she contribute an extraordinary amount to the winning of the second world war . I welcome International Women ' s day because it give I the chance to tell that story . at a time when cloud be again darken around the world and the nation have to re - arm , and , as we have hear , we must encourage the Tilly shilling of tomorrow to come forward to contribute to our defence and aerospace industry , I hope that her story will inspire many people across the country to see that they can make a huge contribution to our national defence . in my almost 10 year in this place , I have become somewhat vocal on woman ' s issue . some would call I a " ferocious campaigner " , other a " challenging mouthpiece " , but I will take both . my passion for ensure that woman get access to the support and service they need be what drive I — from woman struggle through the menopause to woman in prison , and woman who be victim of domestic violence , human trafficking or modern slavery . it have be my mission to use this platform to be their voice . today , I will speak about an industry that be power by woman but be all too often overlook and undervalue . as a former co - chair — alongside you , Madam Deputy Speaker — of the previous Parliament ' s all - party parliamentary group on beauty and wellbeing , which we be reconvene , I have often speak about the personal care sector . we champion such business during the pandemic , when they be belittle by those in power and be among the last business to reopen . since then , we have continue to promote the contribution that they make to our economy , as well as the physical health and mental wellbeing benefit that they bring to society . More than 80 % of those work in the personal care industry be woman , and the industry have one of the high rate of business ownership compare with other sector — especially for woman . in fact , woman be four time more likely to own a personal care business than a business in any other sector . " the Future of the High Street " , a report publish by the Federation of Small Businesses last year , recognise that woman owner of small and medium - sized enterprise be more likely to engage with their community , but also highlight the difficulty woman face , such as excessively high rental cost , when woman typically earn less than their male counterpart and bear the brunt of the time and cost demand of raise a family . it be especially encouraging therefore to see that beauty and wellbeing business , which be predominately own and staff by woman , continue to open and thrive — and they really be thrive . in 2023 , there be an 11 % year - on - year growth in the GDP contribution of the industry to £ 27 . 2 billion . the same year see a 10 % increase in the industry ' s workforce , with business employ 418 , 000 people . professional service , such as salon , directly employ 224 , 000 people , of which 180 , 000 be woman . every day , the industry play a role in our life — from the product we buy to the service we use . it keep we clean , enhance our appearance and help we to protect our physical and mental health . will the House join I in wish every woman who work in the personal care sector or own a business — let we face it , they will probably be work all day Saturday — a very happy International Women ' s day ? [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] rise — I be impose an immediate three - minute time limit . I call Seamus Logan . it be a true privilege to speak in this year ' s debate . I will start by acknowledge just some of the woman in scottish politic who be inspire and pave the way for future generation of woman in Scotland , especially the next generation of female politician . there be our Chief Whip , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , who would have love to be here today but sadly could not make it ; Karen Adam , our MSP for Banffshire and Buchan Coast ; and two — only two — of our local councillor in Aberdeenshire : Gwyneth Petrie , our opposition group leader , and Louise McAllister , our group chair . I pay tribute to the tireless work do by Sally Donald , a member of staff for my neighbouring MP , my hon . friend the Member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) . as co - chair of ParliGender , the workplace equality network advocate for gender equality in Parliament , she have introduce a mentorship scheme for female member of staff , which have be very popular , show the demand for such scheme in this place . while I stand here and thank the woman who have commit their time , energy and live to the people of Scotland , I want to take a second to note that at our current pace , a girl bear today will be nearly 40 year old before woman in this place hold as many seat in Parliament as man . that be a devastating statistic in the face of this year ' s theme : right , equality and empowerment . although we be honour to be in a Parliament that have the high number of female mps in history , let we not forget that woman be only able to stand in election as late as 1918 . up until 1997 , woman have never hold more than 10 % of the seat in Parliament . on this day dedicate to the right , equality and empowerment of all woman , I want to acknowledge the additional challenge that exist for woman in today ' s society , the obstacle they face to enter the world of politic and those that persist once they be here . I want to acknowledge how much strong and more diverse this House would be with more female colleague sit on these Benches . I pay tribute to the great woman of our independence movement in Scotland . there be too many to mention , but I will name two : the late , great Winnie Ewing , who be an MP here , and the late president of the Fraserburgh SNP branch , Nancy Duthie . I be endlessly inspire by my female colleague and the female member on these Benches . I ask the Minister what initiative the Government be take to encourage more woman and girl to access a career in politic , so that they may follow in the footstep of all my female colleague and ensure that the equal right of all woman be at the core of everything this Parliament be work towards . finally , I congratulate the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) on secure this debate and on the powerful speech she make . the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) talk about the need for we to speak out about rape case . in the debate on slapp — strategic lawsuit against public participation — in November , I bring to the Minister ' s notice a rape case . I be promise a ministerial meeting , and I be still wait on that meeting . that be five month ago , so perhaps the Minister here today could respond to that . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for secure this important debate . it be with huge pride that I stand here today as the first woman MP for Huddersfield — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! ] — but hopefully not the last . female leadership continue in my local area , with a female leader of the council and our fantastic West Yorkshire Mayor , Tracy Brabin , and deputy Mayor , Alison Lowe . of course , I have to mention you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as a proud Yorkshire woman — that be fantastic . international Women ' s day be a fantastic opportunity to celebrate the achievement of woman , but it also mark a call to action to accelerate woman ' s equality . around the world , we be witness a grow push - back against woman ' s right — advance that be make painstakingly over decade . as parliamentarian , we have a particular responsibility to ensure that we do everything we can to progress woman and girl ' equality and fight back against the culture war from those who try to give easy and angry response to complex problem , which too often pit we against each other when many of we be fight for the same goal . I recently attend a Reclaim the Night march in Huddersfield , the first of which take place in Leeds back in 1977 . as with those first powerful marche in the 1970 , we be there to renew our commitment to build a future free from violence against woman and girl and to assert our right to go out without fear , whatever time of day or night it be . recent datum show that 2 million woman be estimate to be victim of violence perpetrate by man each year . that be one in 12 woman . Police chief have warn of young man be radicalise online by so - call influencer . as the Safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , say , " the scale of violence against woman and girl in our country be intolerable , and the Government will treat it as a national emergency . " — [ Official Report , 25 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 492 . ] I be very glad that she be in that role , do this work . I be proud that we have more woman in this Parliament than we have ever have , but we be only at 40 % , so there be still more to do . I be glad that a woman ' s caucus have be establish to look at issue on a cross - party basis , but the onus can not just be on woman ; we must all act together and say , " enough be enough . " I want to note a couple of local organisation in Huddersfield that work really hard to support woman , include the Pennine Domestic Abuse Partnership , Kirklees Rape and Sexual Abuse Centre , WomenCentre and the Lipstick Project , among many other . when it come to the responsibility of social medium giant to curtail behaviour online , we must simply ask , be they do enough ? if the answer be no , we have to demand more . it can not be right that at time , algorithm be drive this destructive and divisive behaviour . as the 649th woman to be elect to this House , it be an honour to contribute to this important debate . I thank the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for her contribution and for secure the debate . I be strike that , with 650 member of this House , we be only now in this Parliament reach the threshold where the number of female mps match that . I be particularly proud to be one of only eight newly elect conservative female mps , stand alongside 18 distinguished incumbent conservative female colleague who have set the bar high . their dedication , resilience and leadership continue to inspire I and countless woman across the country . my journey to this place have be a long one , and it begin 15 year ago when I first join the conservative candidate list . however , like many , my journey actually start far early , as I spend far too many year think of run without ever put my name forward or make it know that this be what I might want to do . as Conservatives , we champion equal opportunity for everyone across the United Kingdom , ensure that individual , regardless of their sex , race or background , can achieve their full potential . we be the only political party to have elect a female Prime Minister , not once , not twice , but three time . we make history with Margaret Thatcher ' s election in 1979 , and we continue to make history today under the leadership of my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , our fourth female leader . in government , we take action to support woman at work , ensure that over 2 million more woman enter pay employment between 2010 and 2023 , boost our economy and secure financial independence for many . we launch the woman ' s health strategy , ensure well healthcare outcome for woman , and we restore sex - specific language to the NHS , to protect female - only medical care . we introduce 30 hour of free childcare per week for work parent , ease the burden on family and support mother who want to return to work . however , there be still more work to do , and there always will be . as conservative , we will always fight to ensure that every woman , no matter her background , can reach her full potential . it be an honour to speak in this debate , secure by my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) . international Women ' s day , observe every year on 8 March , be a day dedicated to recognise the invaluable contribution that woman have make in every sphere of life — social , political , economic and cultural . it be a day to celebrate woman ' s success , but it be also a day to look at the challenge that remain and to reinforce the resolve to dismantle the barrier that continue to impede the progress of woman and girl everywhere . in 1908 , a group of woman garment worker in New York city take to the street to protest for well wage and working condition . that same year , the socialist party of America organise the first National Woman ' s Day in honour of those woman who be demand their right . it be not until 1975 , however , that the United Nations formally begin recognise 8 March as International Women ' s Day . what begin as a call for social change in the early 20th century have evolve into a global celebration and recognition of woman ' s achievement and struggle . as we celebrate , we must remember that this day be not only about celebration ; it be about progress . while so much have be achieve , we must also acknowledge the challenge and inequality that persist . for example , woman in many part of the world still earn on average only 70 % to 80 % of what man make for the same work , and that gap widen in the corporate world where woman be often under - represent in leadership and decision - make position . around 33 % of woman globally face physical or sexual violence , and rate be high in conflict zone . educational opportunity for girl , especially in underprivileged region , remain a challenge , and the list of issue continue . moreover , woman of colour , LGBT woman and woman with disability often experience multiple layer of discrimination which amplify the challenge they face . that intersectionality remind we that gender equality be not a one - size - fit - all endeavour , and it be crucial that we consider the unique experience of all woman as we work towards more inclusivity . throughout history , woman have be leader , innovator and change - maker , often in the face of immense adversity . from Marie Curie ' s groundbreake scientific discovery to Malala Yousafzai ' s advocacy for girl ' education , woman have demonstrate resilience and strength . in politic , leader such as Angela Merkel , Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and Jacinda Ardern have prove that woman can lead nation with wisdom , compassion and strength . woman have be the drive force in movement for social justice , environmental sustainability and human right . the # MeToo movement , start by activist Tarana Burke , have empower countless woman to share their story and demand an end to sexual harassment and violence . those woman , and countless other , remind we of the transformative power that woman hold when they be give the opportunity , support , and resource to succeed . they have push boundary , shattered glass ceiling , and pave the way for future generation of woman to thrive . their effort demonstrate that when woman be empower , all of society benefit . many woman in my constituency be do incredible thing , and I be pleased to speak in this debate on International Women ' s day . Judith Ballard , Moira Allen , Molly and Rachel Fitton , and Joy Russell be all lead member of the Save Pawlett Hams action group , who successfully convince EDF that it should not destroy a beloved local area of natural beauty with an unwanted salt marsh . Rose Stacey be a successful local business owner , who I nominate for an MP HERoes award for her work in our community and the local people she employ . Niki Miles visit I in Parliament to raise awareness about the danger of gambling addiction , in memory of her brother Del . Amy Branson , along with her husband Ben , have campaign on the injustice of sentence guideline , in memory of their daughter Bethany who be kill by a drunk driver in 2022 . Emma - Elizabeth Murphy be a special constable who bring my attention to the fact that special can not request unpaid time off work like magistrate or councillor . she inspire I to table an amendment to the Employment Rights Bill , and Labour Members can show their support by co - sign new clause 30 . I particularly want to pay tribute to the Nelson Trust Somerset woman ' s centre , base in Bridgwater . celebrate its 40th anniversary this year , the Nelson Trust provide one - stop shop support to more than 5 , 000 woman annually , from its network of woman ' s centre across the south - west and Wales . the centre be safe woman - only space , provide for woman who be experience multiple unmet need , such as homelessness , addiction , mental ill health , domestic and sexual abuse , and familial separation . have see the huge difference that the centre make to some of the most vulnerable woman in my constituency , I pay tribute to Gemma Berry and Lorna Griffiths for their incredible work , and for their service not only to woman but to our whole community . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) on introduce this vital debate . she be a true champion of woman ' s issue and an inspiration to many . twenty - one fifty - eight — 2 , 158 be not my number ; we have a long way to go before we get to that — be the year when , at the current rate of progress , we will see full gender parity . that be 133 year away and five generation of girl who will continue to live under a system of gender inequality . imagine if the leader of the Suffragette movement have know that in spite of their heroic action it would take another 10 generation before we achieve equality of the sex . that be why this year ' s theme , " Accelerate Action " be appropriate , because the current rate of action be unacceptable . a number of area will require focus if we be to accelerate progress , but I want to focus on woman ' s health . member will have hear I speak often about racial disparity in maternity care and the disproportionate fatality rate for black mother , and more must be do to address that . however , issue around maternity be now worsen for all woman in this country . when I first raise the issue of black maternal health in the House , black woman be four time more likely to die in pregnancy and childbirth . that have now reduce to just over three time . Awareness have play a huge role in that , and I pay tribute to five x More and other organisation that have do so much to raise awareness . regrettably , most of that decrease be not because maternity service be improve , and the rate of woman and baby of all ethnicity die in pregnancy and childbirth in this country have increase in the past two decade . the UK sit in the middle to low range of maternal mortality compare with the global standard , but we should not settle for that , just as we should not settle for racial disparity or poor maternal care , especially when our maternal mortality rate be far high than that of other - high income country such as Iceland , Norway , and Finland . it be not just in maternity care where woman be be fail , because woman ' s health issue have long be overlook , as man have historically be treat as the default . for many man , as we have hear , there be just a physical exam and a few question in order to be diagnose with something such as erectile dysfunction , but it take eight year for a woman to receive a diagnosis for endometriosis . every seven and a half second a man be prescribe ED medication , but it take eight year for a woman to be diagnose with endometriosis . we still know next to nothing about the cause , symptom and diagnosis for the management of condition such as polycystic ovary syndrome , despite that impact one in eight woman . we know so little even about period , yet almost every person who have experience one understand the pain and discomfort involve . for any man who be still wonder , yes , a period cramp be typically at least more painful than testicular trauma , while at its bad it be as intense as a heart attack . only 2 . 5 % of publicly fund research be dedicate to reproductive health , although 90 % of woman suffer from such issue . woman feel gaslit by their GPs , they be tell to go on painkiller , and there be so much more that they be not receive when they ask for help with their healthcare . we can not fight for gender equality when the disparity in the treatment of woman ' s health condition be so stark . I do not imagine that by next International Women ' s day we will have complete gender equality , but I hope we will see some concrete step towards get there on health . there be a saying that have always resonate with I : " when you get to the top , send the lift back down " , and those of we privileged to sit on these Green Benches bear a responsibility to speak up for and support woman . I be proud to be an honorary vice - president of the conservative Women ' s Organisation — the old woman ' s political organisation in the world , which do so much to inspire , encourage and mentor woman as they progress in role in politic and public life . time be short , but I want to take a few moment to share with the House some example of inspire woman in Chester South and Eddisbury . they be woman such as Dianne Worby , an entrepreneur who own and run her company , Global Air Training , near Tattenhall , and an industry leader who be put Chester South and Eddisbury on the aviation map ; and woman such as Helen Bebington , a dairy farmer near Tarvin , who get up every morning at 4 be to attend to her stock , and who work from dawn till dusk to keep her farm go . accord to a recent survey by the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution , woman in farming , particularly young woman , have the bad mental health score . I have speak on numerous occasion in this House about the importance of our family farm and mental health , and woman be the backbone of the rural community and they deserve to be celebrate today . there be woman such as Councillor Rachel Williams from Malpas , who every month cook a community lunch , bring people together , combat loneliness and isolation , and support other . international Women ' s day be a chance not just to celebrate woman , but to highlight where there be still vital work to be do . too many woman face domestic violence , and it be important that woman know that we in this House be here for they . I very much welcome the Government ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl . I be pleased to support the Institute for Addressing Strangulation at the end of last year by write to the Minister to emphasise the vital work that it be do . two third of case of domestic violence will at some point include a woman be strangle , and it be a red line in the escalation of violence . if a woman have be subject to strangle , the probability that she will go to be murder in the future increase sevenfold . I be grateful to the Minister who have commit to fund the Institute for Addressing Strangulation for another year , to ensure that the vital work it do can continue . together , we must speak up and deliver change on behalf of all woman on matter such as these . it be the honour and privilege of my life to be the 575th female Member of Parliament to be elect to this House . I be committed to use the time I have here to do what I can to inspire , support , champion and speak up for woman and girl . together , we can accelerate action . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for secure this important debate and all hon . member for their powerful contribution . my constituency have a proud history of elect only woman since the seat be reintroduce in 1997 , and I be honour to continue that tradition today as the 680th female mp . representation matter . stourbridge be home to many incredible woman who provide much for our constituency , but I worry that , in a society that can move so fast at time , we may forget to take the time to make our appreciation truly know to one another as often as we should . in my role , I be fortunate to interact with many amazing woman in my constituency , and this year I launch the Sisters of Stourbridge Awards as a chance to shine a light on some of the incredible woman make a difference every single day . I would like to tell the House about they . Chloe Cox be an english teacher at Ridgewood high school who bravely return to the classroom after survive a life - threaten brain tumour . pupil and colleague alike be so happy to see she back and her resilience be inspire . Mandy Hobbis campaign tirelessly for road safety law to protect cat , ensure they be treat with the same respect as dog . as a champion for animal and the owner of three cat myself , I believe the work that Mandy be do be important in help to raise awareness and deliver parity for our pet . Kate Cooke overcome a stroke to become a human resource manager at one of our great local business in Brierley Hill , Emmiera , and have introduce programme that support child and college student with opportunity for work experience and apprenticeship . Judith Moreland be a leader in the art , keep she in Sound Company community choir alive since 2012 , perform at prestigious event such as Community Spirit at Birmingham Symphony Hall and at the Commonwealth game . her dedication have foster growth , inclusivity and perseverance , and do so especially during lockdown . I will also be celebrate Rosemary Taylor , who be in her 80 but still go out every day , in all weather , with her little trolley , litter pick all around the area . Heather Cruickshanks turn 80 this year , but she still run a Rainbow unit and help the Guides and Trefoil Guild . she be describe as an amazing woman by constituent , who be so grateful for she . let I not forget Elsie Gayle , who be a drive force behind the all - party parliamentary group on Black maternal health and be fight to improve maternal care in the UK . another nominee , Emma Kilbride , be raise fund for Mary Stevens hospice through her Stourbridge jigsaw library . in just 15 month , she have raise more than £ 26 , 500 . Anji Burford work at Atlantic House support local people in recovery from drug and alcohol . last but not least be Samantha Billingham , who I have mention in the Chamber before . she be a fierce campaigner for domestic abuse survivor — order . I call Jerome Mayhew . this be not my first International Women ' s Day debate , but each one present a fantastic opportunity to learn about the exceptional woman who have make our history and to be remind , as though I need it , that many of those exceptional woman be in the Chamber today . my contribution for Norfolk be Elizabeth Fry . I be particularly proud of she , because she happen to be my five time great aunt — that be as close as I get to real commitment and fame , I be afraid . in the early 19th century , she be horrify by the condition in prison . she visit newgate prison and instead of walk on by , she take action . she fund prison school for the child who be incarcerate along with their mother in those day ; she teach employment skill ; she promote rehabilitation as a concept , which be new at that stage ; and she develop a wide movement for reform . in 1818 , Elizabeth Fry be the first woman ever to give evidence to a House of Commons inquiry . directly because of her campaigning work , we have the Gaols Act 1823 and the Prisons Act 1835 , which be the beginning of the end of the truly terrible condition of the 18th century . we talk now about violence against woman and girl , but that be not new . in her personal diary , she expressly discuss the need to protect female prisoner from rape and sexual exploitation . I recognise that thing have improve beyond recognition from those day , and we should celebrate that today and at other time , but too much remain the same . under the last government , new offence of stalk , non - fatal strangulation , coercive control and public sexual harassment be introduce . the fact that that new legislation be need demonstrate our corporate failure to change attitude . those condition would have be familiar to Elizabeth Fry back in the 1820 . our work be not about legislation , because that be not the solution . legislation deal with and treat symptom , but the problem be the generational transfer of attitude , I be sorry to say , typically from father to son . it be our work to challenge those generational attitude . I do not often agree with the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , but on this I stand shoulder to shoulder with she . Diolch , Madam Deputy Speaker . as the previous chief executive officer of the Women ' s Equality Network Wales , I have a long history of campaign for woman ' s equality . I be really proud of the work we do on the Diverse5050 campaign to get more woman into public and political life , and to make care fair , recognise the huge army of unpaid woman carer out there . the theme of IWD this year be " Accelerate Action " , and my goodness I , don ' t we still need more action ? yes , a whopping 47 % of all Welsh mp be now woman , which be brilliant , but there be only two woman leader of Welsh local authority , one of whom , I be proud to say , be Mary Ann Brocklesby , our very own leader in Monmouthshire . one of the most difficult issue that woman face today be healthcare inequality , and my inbox be full of case . for many year , woman ' s health have be underfunde and people have not want to talk about period or the menopause . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , who have do a huge amount in that area . thank to she , this place have sign up to the menopause mandate , and it be thank to she that I feel able to share today my own story , as she have give I the courage to do so . my journey with the menopause be difficult . for I , it happen overnight . I have increasingly heavy and painful period that stop I go to work some day because of the heavy flow ; I could not be more than one minute away from the loo . eventually , the bleeding be so bad and unstoppable that I end up in A & E , think I have a haemorrhage . it be fibroid , with one as big as an orange . later , I finally get the hysterectomy I need and the story end happily — here I be — but with the hysterectomy come an immediate , overnight menopause . I stupidly think I could get through it without the help of drug , and I refuse the patch offer to I in the hospital . despite be the ceo of a Women ' s Equality Network charity , I have not do my research . I be grateful to my incredible friend and the NHS for help I to understand what be go on . I be proud of our Government ' s bold and important commitment to halve violence against woman in a decade , but connect to that be an issue that fill my inbox : the inefficiency of the Child Maintenance Service , which create an impossible situation . to my mind , it be unforgiveable that after a woman have make the difficult decision to leave her partner , she can continue to be abuse by her husband financially as the CMS fail to prevent that . I would like to take a moment to thank the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who have inspire I over the year and do so much on violence against woman . finally , I highlight the talented , inspire and wonderful woman of Monmouthshire who come to my International Women ' s Day event in Chepstow on Saturday . it be a pleasure to be join by so many inspiring woman , and we raise £ 500 for Cyfannol Women ' s aid . as other speaker have say , International Women ' s Day be bear out of struggle wage by past generation of woman whose effort and sacrifice will by and large not be record in the history book , but whose action have enable other woman to walk an easy path through life than they perhaps do . unfortunately , the continuation of that struggle seem more pertinent now than at any other time in my adult life , as there be a concerted attempt to roll back the hard - win gain of the woman ' s movement . we see that in the toxic influence of a resurgent , reactionary politic , amplify via two loosely regulate social medium platform enable misogyny literally to reach into the bedroom of young teenage boy . I be refer to not just the Andrew Tates of the world , but the Donald Trumps of this world , who ridicule the very notion of there be an unequal playing field that hinder the life of woman — indeed , Trump and his supporter state the exact opposite . in their world , it be man , and white man in particular , who be the real victim of move to tackle inequality . two thing about that narrative worry I . first , it be get traction in this country . a study conduct by the Global Institute for Women ' s Leadership at King ' s College London find that nearly one in two Britons — 47 % — say that when it come to give woman equal right with man , thing have go far enough in Great Britain . that be a notable increase on the 38 % who say the same last year , and a stark increase on the proportion who feel that way as recently as 2019 . that mean that for the first time , Britons be now more likely than Americans to agree that woman ' s equality have go far enough . secondly , those view normalise misogyny and encourage violence against woman and girl . they literally put woman ' s live in danger . it be therefore critical for mp to reassert the reality of institutionalised misogyny and sexism , which more often than not be deny , whether in the House of Commons , the police force or the military , where instance of misogyny be put down to some bad apple and the institution involve be let off the hook . we have to demonstrate more forcefully a zero - tolerance approach to hate and abuse against woman . we also need more practical measure right now to make it safe for woman to live their life free of harassment and to go about their everyday life without fear of attack . two year after the murder of Sarah Everard , it should be the least that we can do in her memory , and in the memory of approximately 450 woman murder by — Order . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for allow we to do what this House do at its good : speak as one and work together . international Women ' s day be an opportunity for we all to celebrate the achievement of woman , reflect on the progress we have make and , crucially , recommit to the work still to be do . as we have be rightly remind throughout this debate , there be still many , many battle to be win , whether in our local community , across the nation or globally . woman have always be at the forefront of change , often have to fight to have their voice hear , yet they have make significant contribution and lead movement for justice and equality . the fight for woman ' s right be a fight for economic justice , reproductive right and freedom from violence and discrimination . it be a fight against exploitation , traffic and the silencing of woman ' s voice . the theme for International Women ' s Day this year be " Accelerate Action " . while every single one of we in this place have a role to play in that , it be also necessary for our community . like other member , I will take a moment to share the story and celebrate the achievement of some really spectacular woman in my constituency . however , not a single one of they would say that they be spectacular or that they be do something above and beyond . they be woman like Lavinia McElhinney , the lady ' president at Woodilee bowling club , whom I meet at the club ' s fundraise coffee morning last year . woman ' s sport , such as bowling , be just as important at the sport on the telly . there be Louise Carberry , a primary 7 pupil at Kilsyth primary school , whose app - design skill see she win the Make it Happen Club app design challenge . her " save the whale " idea be not only recognise , but develop into reality — yet another woman go into science , technology , engineering and math . there be also RSE , an engineering company in my constituency that be overwhelmingly recruit graduate woman engineer in the water industry . there be the inspire woman of Kilsyth and Stepps guiding . I must admit that I be biased — I be a Guide , a Brownie and an occasional adult volunteer — but the volunteer there be bring young woman forward . our fight be not finish . the battle for equality continue everywhere , so let we recommit ourselves to not only celebrate progress , but truly accelerate action . as I grow old , I find myself become more and more intensely aware of the injustice that confront woman and girl every day in the UK . I will cover a few point , begin with health . it be alarming to note that the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recognise that up to nine out of 10 woman suffer from period pain — three out of 10 of they severely — and that up to three in eight adolescent girl and woman face heavy period , with one in 20 woman in their 30 and 40s take the difficult step to consult their gp each year because of heavy period or menstrual problem . those issue be very common , but we should not accept they as normal — I really welcome the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) on they . it be equally alarming to recognise the error band in those statistic ; they be huge , with the upper limit be five and 10 time the low limit value for the two stat that I open with . we simply do not know enough about these condition . we have a deficit in research , knowledge and clinical solution , and we need to do more . those issue be the live experience of woman , but they be the responsibility of we all . I will talk about an issue that sit primarily with man . I have listen to the story of man in my constituency of Worcester talk about the impact that pornography have have on their mental health , on their relationship and , by extension , on the woman in their life . Pornography be wildly addictive , harmful to man and hazardous to woman . we be now in a world where it be industrially available and increasingly violent , and it be silently fuel sexual violence and exploitation . I want we to move rapidly to implement regulation and enforcement that be fierce , fast and forceful to make our country safe . I will also raise a local issue in my constituency of Worcester , which be very urgent and important . the DAWN project support survivor of domestic violence in Worcestershire . I have hear at first hand the story of survivor who have find their life transform by the service . it be save life and restore future , but it be at risk , as funding stream be dry up . local people in Worcester be dig deep and try to crowdfund money to support the charity in the meantime , but I would be very grateful if the Minister would meet with I to discuss way in which we can secure the future of the DAWN project in Worcester . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for bring this important debate to the House . it be vital that we honour International Women ' s day to not only recognise the remarkable achievement of woman in my city of Gloucester and across the country , but accelerate the drive for equality that be still so desperately need . sadly , far too many woman come to my surgery with harrowing experience of discrimination in the workplace , inequality in the healthcare system and violence and domestic abuse at home . many be deeply concerned about the alarming rise in violence , and last year , sadly , we see sexual and domestic abuse and violence reach record level in Gloucester . on the latter point , I be proud to have present my ten - minute rule Bill early this year , which seek to provide victim and survivor of domestic abuse with the right to access 10 day of pay safe leave . I have have the privilege of work with employer and organisation such as the Hollie Gazzard Trust , woman ' s aid , FearFree , SafeLives and the Gloucestershire Domestic Abuse Support Service to develop that Bill . we know that one in four woman will experience domestic abuse in their lifetime , mean that the Bill will help many woman to rebuild their life , and I encourage the Government to add that to their mission . the theme for this year ' s International Women ' s day be " Accelerate Action " , and I be encourage by the Government ' s commitment to do just that . we have commit to an ambitious plan to halve violence against woman and girl by introduce Raneem ' s law ; protect victim of stalk , domestic abuse and harassment ; criminalise spiking ; improve healthcare and maternity service , particularly for woman of colour , and close the racial mortality gap ; tackle sex - base discrimination at work ; support woman during maternity and the menopause ; and close the gender pay gap . I would like to take this moment to celebrate some of the inspirational woman in my city , include the fantastic Gloucester - Hartpury woman ' s rugby team , who go for their third successive title next Sunday ; my good friend Mary Smith , the only female leader of Gloucester city council in the past 30 year ; Carol Francis , the first black female councillor in Gloucester , who continue to champion her community ; Zafeera Karim , who as the Member of the Youth Parliament for Gloucester and the Forest of Dean give a brilliant speech in this House just last week ; and Julie Kent , who found the charity emily ' s gift and will soon become high sheriff . early this year , we lose Baroness Sally Oppenheim - Barnes , who die in January after year of service to our city . we also thank other inspirational woman for their service to Gloucester and the wide county as they step down this year , include Sally Byng at the Barnwood Trust , Anne Whitworth at the Gloucester Law Centre , Sue Cunningham at GL Communities and Mary Hutton at the Gloucestershire integrate care board . I echo the comment of the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) about the Nelson Trust , which do brilliant work in my constituency . I will continue to use my position in this House to celebrate the success of woman in Gloucester , but also to advocate for a bright future for woman , which I hope we can all agree will lead to a bright future for Gloucester and for our country . the first time I see the Alison Lapper Pregnant sculpture in Trafalgar Square , it take my breath away . the swollen belly of Lapper speak of a body that be love and carry life . it say , " I exist — body like mine exist , and therein there be beauty . we shall no long be invisible . " however , unlike non - disabled woman , our experience of pregnancy have not be celebrate or discuss . when I find out in 2017 that I be pregnant , I be fill with joy and a deep connection to my body and unborn child . grow up , the absence of disabled woman ' s representation in discussion of sexuality , relationship , menstruation , menopause and maternity leave I feel that my womanhood do not count — that it be vitiate by my visible physical disability . in contrast , when I be pregnant , my body be no long just a topic of medical scrutiny ; my womanhood be no long invisible . I want my maternity to be embrace by a healthcare system that support I in my journey , but that be not my reality . instead , the system be unprepared for a body like mine . early on , I be triaged to a genetic counselling service . I be leave feel devastate . as my pregnancy progress , there be no specialist midwifery team , and the lack of awareness of the interaction between my disability and maternity continue . I have to be induce at 37 week , lead to a caesarean section . my core muscle be severely impact and I be leave debilitate . after birth , the en - suite room I be put in be inaccessible — the very space that be mean to aid my recovery become another barrier . upon discharge , the occupational therapy team have no specialist advice on how I could breastfeed outside of my home or carry my baby . I become increasingly dependent on family member . I be exhausted and lose my confidence , not because of anything I have do , but because the structure that be mean to support I do not know how to do so . my experience come eight year after the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities raise concern that the UK have fail to mainstream disabled woman ' s right into healthcare . this week , the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine have publish a report demonstrate that disabled woman be more likely to experience stillbirth , have low rate of breastfeed , and endure long post - natal hospital stay . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful speech . do she agree with I and with my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) that health service for woman of colour be also lag very far behind ? I certainly do , and I want to ensure that our health service take a more intersectional approach . indeed , UK maternity policy continue to overlook woman ' s need . now it be time for action . disabled woman should experience high - quality , inclusive maternity care . we need join - up , meaningful , inclusive maternity care pathway throughout pregnancy , birth and the post - natal period to improve access , experience and outcome for disabled woman . crucially , there must be nothing about we without we . disabled woman must be central in improve maternity care service , and while I meet some wonderful clinician , we must increase their understanding through well training and update clinical guideline to secure appropriate care . finally , we must ensure that healthcare facility , equipment and information be accessible , and that reasonable adjustment to maternity ward enable disabled woman to recover from birth with dignity . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) for her incredibly powerful speech , all the woman who I have hear speak today , and those who have form such a supportive group as new mps in this House . however , the people I primarily want to thank today be the woman who look after my child , and all the woman who look after all of our child . of course , childcare be not solely the provenance of woman , but the overwhelming majority of the childcare workforce in this country be woman . it be some of the most undervalue work in our society — it be often pay at minimum wage — and other parent can not work without it . I know that nursery provider be currently deeply concerned . labour be put £ 1 . 8 billion into the early year , and we want 75 % of child to be school - ready . that be an ambitious target , and I be proud of it , but the people who will deliver that work be our childminder and our nursery staff . Childcare be key national infrastructure , for which we need a stable and well - train workforce . if we do not fund early year and childcare well enough , the risk be that the only business that will survive in this sector will be major chain nursery back by private equity . those be the business that can manage economy of scale , which will enable they to thrive in most environment . there be nothing wrong with those nursery — I do not wish to suggest that the staff who work in they be anything other than committed , or that their owner be work for anything other than the great good . however , I do not want to see small , passionate , woman - own business squeeze out of the sector , which might happen . that be partly because that be the kind of childcare I have for my child in the early year , so I want it to be an option for all child , but it be also partly because in Australia , when the ABC nursery chain go bust , 19 , 000 family lose their childcare overnight . I guarantee that it be predominantly woman who do not go to work the next day , not those child ' s father . a consolidated sector be an inherently fragile one . as such , I hope that in the upcoming spending review , we will look at the rate that we pay for three and four - year - old childcare , as I understand that that be part of what be cause concern . I also hope we will make sure that our breakfast club place be keep for as long as we can possibly manage , and that they be well funded , so that their uptake be — as we all need it to be — 100 % . I want to say thank you to all the woman who have inspire I , both in this Chamber and beyond , and all those woman who have help I . Most of all , though , I want to say thank you to the woman who look after I and the woman who look after my child . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , who be an incredible activist for woman . I can not express what an honour it be to speak in today ' s debate . my number be 567 , and it be the honour of my life to have it . this year ' s theme , " Accelerate Action " , could not be more relevant . my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village have a proud history of woman take action against misogyny and inequality , and today I want to honour that legacy while also shine a light on the challenge we still face . one of the most remarkable woman from Stafford ' s history be Alice Hawkins , a suffragette who work in the Stafford shoe industry before move to Leicester , where she become a key figure in the fight for woman ' s right to vote . Alice live on Red Lion Street , and her activism remind we that change happen when ordinary working - class woman take extraordinary action . we owe it to Alice and the generation before we to continue that fight for equality today . however , while there be much to be proud of , there be also area in which we must act with urgency . the statistic on violence against woman and girl be shocking — woman be three time more likely to be kill by a partner than by not wear a seatbelt . that be the reality we be deal with , and in Staffordshire , the situation be dire . in the past five year , Staffordshire Women ' s aid , which be base in my constituency , have see a 361 % increase in referral to its sexual violence service and an 851 % increase in referral to its specialist counselling service . despite work in the woman and girl sector for year , when I hear those figure , I be devastate . violence against woman and girl be happen in every corner of this country , and I firmly believe that it be a national emergency . in my own casework , I continue to see woman , many with child , who be force to flee their home and start over again because of domestic abuse . time and again , it be the woman and child who have to uproot their life , while the perpetrator face far few consequence . when I stand for election last year , I be so proud to be a member of a party that have promise to halve violence against woman and girl in the next decade , but we must go far . I thank the Minister , who notify I in advance that she will later be refer to my constituent , Rebecca Simkin , who be murder in July last year . I will be follow the debate closely , and I express how grateful I be to the Minister , both as a Member of Parliament and as a woman , for her tireless work in this space . speak as someone from this space , she be a very inspire woman . whether it be Alice Hawkins ' s fight for the vote or woman in my constituency strive for equality today , our mission remain the same : to build a society where woman can live free from fear and reach their full potential . I rise today as the young woman in Parliament and the first woman to represent my constituency of Kettering . I be raise by woman : my mum , my nan and my aunt Emma . I be proudly a gen z woman . like many other my age , I grow up on social medium . I watch this series of " Love Island " . this weekend , I be go to see Sabrina Carpenter , and I be still shocked about Molly - Mae and Tommy Fury ' s break - up . however , absolutely none of that take away from my ability to serve my constituent . be a young woman in this place have its pitfall , and I know that woman mp bear the brunt of online abuse , make ourselves read daily online comment that criticise our appearance , question our intelligence and threaten our safety . in a post when the election be call last year , more people ask I if I have an OnlyFans account than about our manifesto pledge . online , I be call " Barbie " , I be a " stupid girl " , and a " child playing politic " and many more creative thing that I can not say in this House . I know many great woman who have not stand for Parliament because of online abuse or worry about their safety , and this House be bad off because of it . my message for woman who be think about get into politic be that there be a place for you here , and we need you . do my hon . friend agree that she be a phenomenal role model , as a woman with a great knowledge of business ? she bring her special expertise to Business and Trade Committee , have work in the fashion industry . I thank my hon . friend for those really kind comment . the thing I see on my screen also translate to real life . when I walk back to my flat tonight , I will not have my headphone on , so I can hear if someone be follow I . when I go out with my friend , I will not put my drink down , because I be worried I might be spiked . when a man ask for my number on the tube , all I be think be how I can let he down gently , because I be worried how he might take it if I say no . I would just like to remark , in support of my hon . friend ' s observation about the experience of be a female Member of Parliament , that as candidate we be advise by a bunch of white man about security by this place . we look at each other , we female candidate , and observe that almost everything they be suggest that we do — " walk in the light . Don ' t have your headphone on . be careful where you stand on a platform " — be basically the advice we have be give by our mother at the age of 12 . yes , I absolutely agree . I be sad to say that that advice be not new to we . those , sadly , be thing that we have have to learn just through our own experience . I also put on the record my admiration for colleague across this House from ethnic minority background and the LGBTQ + community and for female member who have disability , because they fight a fight I can not even imagine . I be surround , though , by many great male colleague in this place , and I know that we can not accelerate action or uplift or empower young woman without also engage young man . we have to be clear that we can not tackle violence against woman and girl without support young man at this vital point . my constituency be not unique in have woman who have be kill by a family member or partner , and I want to take a moment to mention a horrific case of Anju Asok , who be a well - love nurse in Kettering . she be kill alongside her two child in December 2022 by her husband . Anju go to work every day to look after other and support our vital public service , but when she need support the most , she be let down . we have so much more to do to make woman feel safe at work , walk down the street , and even in our own home . I know that member across this House will continue to work together to make sure that we can accelerate that action . every year more than 1 . 6 million woman in this country experience domestic abuse , and my constituency of Knowsley have recently have the high rate of femicide . I be determined to do everything in my power to keep woman safe in my constituency . Paula Leather be from Knowsley and in her family ' s word , Paula be " beautiful inside and out … so kind , so loving and she be the person that be there for everyone . " she work at Asda and be the mum of Jason , Jessica and Matthew and the proud nanny to her first grandson , but Paula ' s husband barbarically murder she in their home , stab she up to 300 time . behind each statistic we cite be real life and people , such as Stephanie Owen , Sharon Hayter , Teresa Wishart , Valerie Turner , Magdalena Pacult , Lorraine Cullen , Karen Dempsey and Courtney Boorne — all woman from Knowsley kill by male violence against woman . some be murder by their own son . one in 10 woman kill by man be kill by their own son . I turn to the urgent issue of funding for specialist domestic abuse service . they be a lifeline for many survivor , but the fact be that they be struggle financially . service be stretch , underfunde and in some case shut their door . we can not accept that . many survivor be more likely to turn to they and to have more trust in they than the state and the police , so these service must be at the heart of this Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl . we have to put our money where our mouth be . the First Step , the only independent specialist domestic abuse service in Knowsley , literally save life . I commend the chief executive , Caroline Grant , and her team , on what they do for Knowsley . she be up in the Gallery . they be be force to turn woman away , however , because the stability of funding just be not there . that be why I have write to the victim Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , to ask that sustainable , multi - year funding be commit to specialist domestic abuse service , include the First Step in Knowsley . I welcome Raneem ' s law and everything the Government be do on this urgent matter . we have make incredible progress and have great ambition for woman . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be on the Front Bench today , for all her work . no funding be pledge for domestic abuse in the last Budget , and I very much hope that that change in the spring statement . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for move the motion . we have just hear some extremely powerful testimony from my hon . friend the Members for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , but , if the House will forgive I , I intend to shift the tone slightly and talk about a moment of joy that I experience yesterday . first , however , I want to acknowledge the proud achievement of our Labour party in advance the cause of woman over the last century , and to pay particular tribute to the member of the woman ' s section in our labour and trade union movement for the work that they do in their local community . yesterday I pay a lovely visit to our marvellous education centre , where I meet student from St Joseph ' s catholic primary school in Billingham , in my constituency . as always , I be ask the good and hard question by the student . one of those question be , " what be mp go to do to help woman who play football receive the same pay as man who play football ? " what a great question . we have hear a bit about woman ' s sport today , and we be see the rapid growth and transformation of football for woman and girl . we have hear about the Lioness effect . the England woman ' s team have be fantastic role model , and , on the main stage at Wembley under the floodlight , they have lay their critic to rest . however , we should not forget what they have be up against . the Football Association now have ambitious target to grow the girl ' game , but on 5 December 1921 the FA meet at its headquarters in London and announce a ban on the woman ' s game , state that " the game of football be quite unsuitable for female and ought not to be encourage . " before that , there be about 150 woman ' s football club , attract 45 , 000 fan to their game . we have to wonder whether the FA be motivate by the fact that the woman ' s game be take fan away from the man ' s . I think that if woman have be ask about this before the ban , they would have say there be a bright future for the woman ' s game . there certainly be now , because since the ban be reverse in 1971 it have go from strength to strength , and I commend the fa for the work that it have do to improve access and opportunity for woman and girl . tomorrow , to celebrate International Women ' s day , I shall be join pupil at Bewley primary school , also in Billingham , to watch a training session and a football match run by the Hartlepool United Community Sports Foundation . the " let girl play big ever Football Session " send the strong message to girl grow up today that they can look forward to the same success and achievement in our national game as boy . let I end by say that it be incredibly inspiring for I to work with such brave , talented , dedicated and hard - work woman in Parliament , include everyone who be speak in today ' s debate . our woman member be wonderful role model . ahead of International Women ' s day , we must remember that violence against woman and girl be not inevitable . man who kill , man who rape , and man who abuse and sexually harass do so in the context of an entrenched sex discrimination that normalise male predatory behaviour and quickly blame victim , but with sufficient will and a change in that context , it can and must be end . that be why the most welcome change since last year ' s International Women ' s day be that we now have a Labour Government . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation , I have a particular interest in prostitution . the report from the Femicide Census — whose author , Clarrie and Karen , be here today — be harrowing but none the less groundbreaking . the late report , publish yesterday , look in detail at 2 , 000 complete case of woman kill by man that be on the database . that is 2 , 000 too many . forty - five of the woman who have be kill be identify as be involve , or have be involve , in prostitution , but as woman be only include in this cohort if their involvement in prostitution have be explicitly mention in either official document or the medium , that be likely to be a huge undercount . the researcher find that of this cohort , woman kill by man in the UK who have be involve in prostitution tend to be young and be less likely to have be bear in the UK than any other woman kill by man , and the data show that woman involve in prostitution be also the most vulnerable in society . a Home Office report note that approximately 50 % of woman involve in prostitution in the UK start be pay for sex act before they be 18 year old , while up to 95 % of woman involve in street prostitution be believe to be problematic drug user . they be indeed the most vulnerable — and this not a job ; this be not work . woman involve in prostitution be disproportionately victim of violence , include fatal violence . in their death they be more likely to be subject to sexual violence , and after death their body be more likely to be desecrate . that be not a coincidence . prostitution be the old form of sexual exploitation — a form of violence against woman and girl . it be another manifestation of sexual inequality . be it not a positive development that our Government announce this week that young girl would no long be place in young offender institution ? that be fantastic , and it be at the heart of what our Ministers be do to support woman and girl . all in all , woman and girl matter , include those who be exploit in the sex trade , to whom I wish to dedicate my speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make a contribution to this debate on International Women ' s Day . I be proud to be the first woman to represent my constituency of Scarborough and Whitby . in my acceptance speech , I pledge to play my part in end the epidemic of violence against woman and girl , and to see the very first woman ' s refuge build in North Yorkshire . today , I rise to pay tribute to a constituent who have spend a lifetime overcome what happen to she as a young girl to become an outspoken survivor and an advocate for victim of child sexual abuse . when I say " a lifetime " , I mean a lifetime . abuse at 10 , Suzzanne bury what have happen to she to build a successful career and raise a family . she tell I that it be only once her child have grow up and leave home that she feel able to deal with what have happen to she . at 48 , she go to the police . when she be 50 , and after a very traumatic and draw - out investigation and trial , the perpetrator be sentence to 13 year . such perpetrator serve only half of their sentence in prison , and he be due to be release in the summer . as a childminder and early year inspector , Suzzanne love where she live . of course she do — it be her home . but as she wait for the decision of the Parole Board , she be plan to sell her home , because when her abuser be release , he will move back to his family home , which be a few street away from she — a house that she have to walk past to reach her parent ' home . the man who abuse my constituent as a child will live literally two street away from she , in a house that be a three - minute walk from her home , a mere 322 metre away , and visible from her upstairs room . understandably , she can not face the thought of come face to face with her abuser . Suzzanne tell I that she be very fortunate to have be signpost to ida , a specialist charity support victim of domestic abuse and sexual violence . she say that without its support , she would have take her own life . why should a man who have abuse a child in their close neighbourhood be allow to return to live just a few street away ? it go beyond whether perpetrator be see as a risk , and it continue the suffering of woman and girl who have suffer abuse . I be sure there be no easy answer , but I pay tribute to Suzzanne for allow I to share her story . I thank she for her courage . we want woman to feel safe on the street and in their home , include survivor like Suzzanne . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I inform the House that we will begin the Front - Bench speech at 3 . 15 pm . we have six people leave who be hope to speak . much like my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , I be the fifth woman in a row to represent Falmouth , which be part of my constituency . the first woman to represent Falmouth , in 1997 , be select through an all - woman shortlist . it be more than 50 year since Barbara Castle introduce the Equal Pay Act 1970 to the House of Commons . she be obviously a pioneer woman — the first female Secretary of State for Employment . she support the Ford factory worker ’ strike in Dagenham , which pave the way for equal pay legislation . however , it be not until 1984 that female worker at the Ford factory receive full skill recognition in line with the man . just last year , the Fawcett Society report that the mean gender pay gap for full - time worker be still 11 . 3 % . decade after the first equal pay legislation , we still have a long way to go . it be hard to get equally pay work before have child , and it be even hard afterwards , so I be pleased that this Labour Government be bring in measure that will help we get there , such as flexible working and well childcare provision . our expansion of free childcare and universal breakfast club for primary school child will relieve some of the pressure on work parent — let we be honest , we mean mother , who still often carry far more of the mental load . when my son be small and I become a single mum , my income drop exponentially . I have leave a job in a city to move to Cornwall and start a family . I find a job that fit in with school hour , but despite such job be vital , they be often low pay and less secure , so improve childcare in this country and make it more important be crucial to eliminate the gender pay gap . the Employment Rights Bill , which be introduce in the House in October , have many provision that will help . flexible working will become the default where practical , and it will be hard for employer to refuse flexible working request . this will allow woman with caring responsibility to balance they more easily with work . it will also benefit woman suffer from health condition such as endometriosis , who will be able to manage their symptom and appointment . I have meet a number of constituent with endometriosis who have share story of their chronic pain and multiple surgery make it difficult for they to work . they also struggle to feel hear and support by the medical profession , feel that they have to fight for treatment and sometimes have to wait year for diagnosis , as have be point out . company with more than 250 employee will be require to create action plan address gender inequality , include menopause . I know from bitter experience that migraine , sleeplessness and hot flush can be debilitate , as can basic word drop out of my head . have arrangement and an understanding in place will enable more woman to keep work . skilled social care worker be chronically underpaid for what they do . the job I find as a single mum and retrain for be as a teaching assistant , and work in a school in a support role be another sector where the pay be very low . I be very pleased that the Bill give respect and recognition to social care worker and support staff in the school support staff negotiate body and — Order . I add my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for bring this debate to the House . I be especially proud to speak in this debate as a member of the Women and Equalities Committee . I be also the first woman to represent my constituency — frankly , far too many of we be . I hope that change . on Monday , I be proud to host a coffee morning in aid of Fortalice , which provide refuge accommodation , wraparound support and one - to - one session for woman and child to work through their trauma . it also have an outstanding nursery on site to help kid smile , and it provide a lifeline for victim and survivor of domestic abuse . I also host two event on Tuesday , and speak proudly about Endeavour , which be the UK ' s first domestic abuse service to provide pet fostering . it recognise that woman face domestic abuse may also feel trap because they do not want to leave a pet behind , and it remove a huge barrier to find help . today be a day for honesty , and as we have hear in so many wonderful contribution to this debate so far , it be a dangerous time . we be see woman ' s right be roll back across the globe . we face the stark reality that , while amazing work be be do by so many woman — and have follow her career so closely , I be honour be in this place with the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and reassure that she be on our Front Bench — we have a long way to go in this country . woman must fight for everything in society , and we have to keep work together to fight for and protect woman and girl . we be still fight for equal pay . we be still fight for safety on our street and in our home , and now in the digital world we be see abuse of and violence against woman and girl take on new form as technology evolve . we have see the creation of deepfake , non - consensual image - base abuse and online harassment . let we not forget that social medium platform — those that shape our conversation , our culture and sometimes even our self - worth — be own and control by man . yes it be true that woman have more opportunity — we be able to work , to go out and earn our own wage and to have our independence — but the expectation place on we remain . we still carry the mental load , we be still the primary caregiver and we be still in charge of household chore and of manage childcare , so we have to keep fight for , work for and demand well . we tell young girl that they can be anything and that they can have it all , but we do not tell young boy about make sure they take on their share of the housework , manage the household and become a good parent . this must change : we can not create a safe and fairer world for woman and girl without work with man and boy . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for bring forward this debate , and all the hon . member who have speak . I particularly thank my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , whose experience of maternity service be shocking , but sadly not unique . I hope it be an experience that , together , we can eradicate . on International Women ' s day , we celebrate the achievement , resilience and contribution of woman and girl across our community , and what well way to honour this day than by shine a light on a place in my constituency that welcome new life into the world and champion the health and wellbeing of mother ? I be talk about Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust maternity service , include the fantastic all - female team at Queen Alexandra hospital . in the past year alone , this remarkable unit have deliver 5 , 000 baby , and the dedication of the 24 / 7 , 365 day a year midwife go far beyond the delivery room . I would like to highlight some of the trailblaze initiative that help make life for parent and baby easy and safe . a new care pathway have be develop by the trust team and Portsmouth Down Syndrome Association to provide additional support and information for all family who be expect a baby with Down syndrome . it include appointment with specialist midwife and paediatrician , include feed specialist , additional specialist scan and an offer of induction at 39 week . a new partnership also allow baby to be register in the hospital . this service support new parent through the registration process and take only 10 to 15 minute , enable they to get a head start on apply for important document such as a birth certificate , take the pressure off and allow all parent to get support and be treat equally as new parent whatever their background . thank to the introduction of lifesave neonatal bedside resuscitation unit , even the tiny and most vulnerable newborn baby have the good chance of a healthy start . baby bear at 24 week have a fantastic 80 % survival rate , while the national rate be 18 % . the trust ' s dedication have earn it a place among the finalist in the NHS parliamentary award , prove that its hard work be feel not just in Portsmouth but nationwide . I be proud to go along and meet the team at the ceremony , where it be shortlist for the nursing and midwifery award , and the future NHS award . I be look forward to go to the unit . finally , the trust have be award the prestigious unicef baby - friendly award , the late UK healthcare facility to be so award . international Women ' s day be about celebrate progress , and the Queen Alexandra hospital maternity unit be a great example of that . I be proud to be woman MP no . 686 and to be able to celebrate the woman in my constituency , of whom there be many . I be proud that the woman of my constituency have such a dedicated team to support they through childbirth : 281 midwife , 101 maternity support worker and countless student . to they , I say thank you . last Saturday , woman from across East Thanet come together for a conference on tackle violence against woman and girl . they give their testimony on what they most want to see improve : public service , in particular mental health provision ; the quality of policing ; the lack of reliable , affordable , safe public transport ; and safety in the workplace and in the street . those issue be all bring up time and time again . woman be over - represent in informal and vulnerable employment . do my hon . friend agree that the protection afford in the Employment Rights Bill be really important for those woman ? it be indeed true . it be powerful to see people talk about the strength of increase representation in the workplace by trade union , give they great protection . housing , housing and housing — my hon . friend the Minister will recognise that it be key for the kind of security and safety that people , woman in particular , require . we spend a lot of time on International Women ' s day talk about the importance of opportunity , because it have be restrict over century and we celebrate the smashing of glass ceiling every day . whether it be because of legislation , a lack of right , or culture , woman ' s access to opportunity have be limit . I will , however , give the House a particular example that be raise at the conference by Oasis , our local domestic abuse service . it point out that , because in Thanet we have a particularly high level of youth unemployment at about 10 % and a high level of young people not in education , employment or training , young woman be be " encourage " , mean force , by their " boyfriend " , mean soon - to - be pimp , to set up their own OnlyFans account to secure income . we need to remember that that be why we need confidence in the law , to ensure we be all safe : security in the home ; security in the community ; and security for our country . the violence against woman and girl conference I host bring those issue to the surface . give the increasingly unsafe and unpredictable world in which we live , this be become only more important . it be in that context that I pay tribute to the Government and their commitment to increase spending on the defence of our country . security and safety be not just personal , but base in the community and throughout our country . however , we need to acknowledge the crucial role of aid in increase security here and abroad , include for woman in the UK and elsewhere . for woman across the globe , international aid have be a lifeline , and have give they both the security and the access to opportunity that otherwise they be unlikely to have have . I understand that we be have to make difficult decision , and I absolutely support increase defence spending . I simply wish to remind the House of the role of international aid and its impact on woman across the globe . we know that 30 % of the people who come across the channel on small boat be woman and child , and aid can reduce that number . if those woman have security and opportunity at home , why would they undertake that dangerous journey ? I finish my remark in my constituency again . Claire Knights would have be my constituent if she have live , but she be kill while walk her dog on the beach in Minnis bay in August 2023 . last week , her killer be convict and sentence to 25 year in prison . however , it be important to note that he escape arrest for upskirte the day before her attack . we will hear the name of the woman who have be kill at the hand of man this year from my hon . friend the Minister . make those woman visible be important , and be part of the struggle to eradicate the violence against and hatred of woman . there have be many powerful contribution by hon . member across the House this afternoon . my contribution will not focus on abuse , violence , intimidation or even health issue . instead , I would like to speak a little about domestic equality and fairness . it be an incontrovertible fact that woman have be discriminate against by man for century . the historical struggle for equality and fairness that woman have have and continue to have be incredible . the fact that it take until 1928 for woman to receive equal voting right with man be astounding , and it be wrong that it take until the Equal Pay Act 1970 to make equal pay compulsory between male and female employee . on the issue of pay , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for secure both this debate today and a Westminster Hall debate on pay gap just a few week ago . in a scottish context , pay gap be a very current issue : the Scottish Trades Union Congress have show that woman in Scotland can expect to see themselves earn an incredible £ 3 , 000 a year less than man , and the gender pay gap in Scotland have rise from 6 . 4 % in 2023 to 8 . 3 % in 2024 . this be unfairness in action and show that the fight be very much ongoing , as workplace gender inequality be still tolerate in modern society . now we be in government , Labour would do well to heed the political power of woman , especially those bear in the 1950 , because their discontent at pension inequality have become a national movement — the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign . now that we have the power that could correct the injustice suffer by the WASPI woman , we really should deliver on what be right and deserve . credit to the WASPI woman : they continue to fight against the injustice of which they be victim . they be not go away . Theirs be a movement base on the value of fight against discrimination and inequality , a struggle woman know so well . we on the Labour Benches , as socialist , and especially my female comrade , know that power concede nothing without demand . it never have , and it never will . I call the final speaker from the Back Benches — with just a very short speech , Naushabah Khan . it be a pleasure to speak in this International Women ' s Day debate as the first female MP for Gillingham and Rainham . I be surround by so many hard - work and drive woman from across the House . regardless of the party we represent , politic have always be a vehicle for smash gender stereotype , pull down barrier to entry and forge trailblazer . however , despite the progress make in our politic , there be still work to do , as my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) so eloquently outlined , and the under - representation of woman in certain industry unfortunately extend beyond Westminster , with real implication for our society and our economic prosperity as a nation . let we take construction as an example . the ONS report that , as of 2023 , only 15 % of the construction workforce be female . when I visit MidKent college , which serve my constituent , I be inspire by the young woman who be passionate about enter the industry , but the reality be that they will be enter a sector with low female representation across the board and systemic barrier to career progress . our armed force and the defence sector be vital component of the Government ' s strategy to deliver economic growth and national security . it be therefore critical that woman can look to the military feeling confident about their own career , yet we still hear story of those in the military face misogyny , harassment and bullying . one woman who face sexual harassment take her own life . the need to recruit woman and ensure that they stay in our force be a challenge for our society and , indeed , our government . look back at our history , we see lesson that we can learn from the important effort of female service personnel who be pivotal in the british war effort in world war one , world war two and many subsequent conflict . indeed , one of Medway ' s key cultural asset be a reminder of such triumph . HMS Cavalier be build solely by woman in only nine month in 1944 — I do not what that say about nine month ! our investment in our national security need to ensure that we have accessible pathway for woman to join our armed force , but also , importantly , to stay there , fulfil their potential and keep Britain safe , as they always have do . I recognise that , across all these sector , significant work have be undertake to address inequality , but there be a battle to fight on outdated gender stereotype , which be impose from a young age and go on to have last consequence . Britain have always be at its good when woman be give the opportunity to excel in their choose pursuit . on International Women ' s Day , with its theme of accelerated action , I remind this House of its obligation to enable woman across the UK to pursue the occupation they be passionate about and create new pathway so that they can realise their ambition . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . ahead of International Women ' s Day this Saturday , I want to celebrate woman ' s achievement . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) on secure this important debate today , on be a trailblazer for this Parliament ' s diversity , and on speak so passionately . we have make the most amazing progress since the inaugural International Women ' s day follow worker ’ right protest in the early 20th century . woman in this country can now vote , start a business or undergo surgery on their own body without consult a man . the absence of those right might feel faintly ridiculous now , but they be hard win in our relatively recent past , and we must remember that they do not apply universally across the world . we must also recognise that , while so much progress have be make , give the current global political environment , this progress have never feel so precarious . this year mark 250 year since Jane Austen ' s birth , in our beautiful Hampshire countryside . austen ' s novel , despite high praise and popularity , be publish anonymously , and it be her brother who often deal with her publishing negotiation . one of her first book be simply write under the authorship : " by a Lady " . as we celebrate World Book Day today as well , it be a perfect opportunity to reflect on the endure impact of author such as Austen , who not only shape our literary world but challenge the societal norm in their time . thankfully , woman ' s literature in the UK be no long publish anonymously , but we still live in a world where 122 million girl be out of school , 496 million adult woman worldwide can not read or write and woman make up two third of the global illiterate population . issue of education and illiteracy will be worsen by the recently announce cut to international aid . that policy , as highlight by the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , will disproportionately harm woman . we need foreign policy with gender equality at its heart not just because it be the right thing to do , but because country that educate girl do well economically for everyone . we must also increase international development funding initiative that aim to eradicate sexual violence and abuse in area of conflict . the UN confirm a 50 % rise in conflict - relate sexual violence between 2022 and 2023 . woman and girl make up 95 % of the victim . it be not just sexual violence : 61 % of preventable maternal mortality — that amount to about 500 death a day — occur in 35 crisis - affect country , and the average incidence of child marriage be 14 . 4 % high in conflict - affect country than in non - conflict setting . woman continue to be abuse across the world . murder be still the lead cause of premature death in woman , and as we have hear , every 10 minute a woman or girl be murder by her intimate partner or a family member . we hear powerful testimony from the hon . member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) on rape and sexual assault . we must develop our support mechanism by embed domestic abuse specialist in every police force , increase protection for refugee and expand our rape crisis centre to tackle these crisis . I be proud to be the first female Member of Parliament for North East Hampshire — the 658th female MP on the list — and a Member of the Women and Equalities Committee . I support the powerful personal and professional testimony of our Committee Chair , the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , who speak on health inequality , as do the hon . member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) and for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . stride be be make in the House to improve the life of woman and achieve equality . the Voyeurism ( Offences ) Act 2019 , which be originally introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , criminalise upskirte . it have be hearten to hear such powerful speech across the House on a wide range of topic , but woman must also be protect financially . right now in the UK , woman continue to be economically disadvantaged in the workplace . median hourly pay for woman be 7 . 7 % less than for man , and in Hampshire that gap almost double . the gender pay gap also worsen with age : among full - time employee age 40 and over , the gap widen considerably due to the motherhood penalty . that be not a fact that we should accept . woman deserve well from their workplace and from the societal structure that enable that to continue . policy such as increase paternity leave will help woman to have a fair share of wage . improve policy for woman also improve it for man . as the hon . member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) say , equality benefit everyone . today , I speak proudly as a progressive , internationalist , cosmopolitan woman inspire by the strength of woman leader . Jacinda Ardern in New Zealand impress the world with her management of crisis from terrorism to the pandemic while be the second - ever elect world leader to give birth in office . Kamala Harris be the first female , the first black and the first asian - american Vice President of the USA . Sanna Marin , who become the world ' s young Prime Minister in 2019 , guide Finland to become the 31st member of NATO . in the face of sexism in political life , who can forget Julia Gillard ' s 2012 speech on misogyny in which she powerfully address the sexism to which she have be subject ? it be that persistence , resilience and fortitude that woman and girl must continue to have in political , public , professional and private space across the globe so that we continue move in the right direction towards equality for all woman . we be not there yet , but our progress must be celebrate . I call the shadow Minister . it be always a pleasure to be part of this debate , and especially so today on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition . I be proud to be a shadow Cabinet member as the shadow Minister for Women . we have have a poignant , proud , challenging and sometimes joyful debate . it have be informative , as always . I thank the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , my co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on woman in Parliament , and the Backbench Business Committee for secure the debate . I thank all member for their contribution ; I will touch on their remark as I go . it be also woman ' s History Month . I thank Mr Speaker for the event in the House last night where we celebrate woman ' s history . in fact , it be a particular pleasure to hear today from my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) about Tilly Shilling . international Women ' s day be important in allow we to take stock and be realistic , but also to celebrate our progress , as woman , towards equality . it be also , as we have hear today , a time to recognise that more can and should be do . yesterday , I have the pleasure of join the nordic Council at the british and nordic breakfast in Westminster with its secretary general , along with Helen Pankhurst , the convener of Centenary Action , and the co - ordinator of the Commonwealth Women Parliamentarians . we exchange view and experience on woman in democracy and civil society and the importance of inter - parliamentary co - operation and support . as we have hear in the Chamber today , that be vital . I be especially pleased to welcome this year ' s International Women ' s Day on 8 March as we mark the half - century since the first woman be elect a party leader . she sit on the Conservative Benches and go on to be the first Head of Government in the western world who be a woman . I be , of course , talk about Margaret Thatcher . I could not help notice that she do not get much of a mention from Government Members , so it be up to I to make sure to add some balance . in Margaret Thatcher ' s time in office , more woman enter the workforce , be professional and become trailblazer . we see her statue just outside the Chamber in the Members ' Lobby and remember that they , like she , be iron lady in their field . she really challenge the status quo , allow we all to do that . as woman , we stand on the shoulder of the woman who come here before we . I be the 380th woman elect to Parliament , and I must say to man and woman in the Chamber that no one be ever here just to make up the number . I say to the hon . member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) , who work with I on the all - party parliamentary group on youth affair , that the power of young people really matter . we agree furiously on that . it be famously say that we be all the future once , so hon . member should not worry . I be pleased to work with the hon . Lady on shape that future , and it be vital that young woman and man work together . Baroness Owen of Alderley Edge should be praise for her work as a young woman in Parliament , take on deepfake pornography — I can not even think of the word I want to say about that , at least not at the Dispatch Box . it be really important that I remind the House , in keep with our conservative value , that a meritocracy be not a tick - box and be not tokenism . our rise and our success as conservative mps be not about make up the number . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , who share her experience as a pregnant woman with her disablement , and show her incredible strength in talk about it . just get here just show what a strong voice she be in share that . in subsequent year , we have have three more conservative woman leader — we like female leadership in our party , don ' t we ? so come on , folk on the labour Benches ; put yourselves forward . we now have my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) lead we and I be extremely proud to sit at the shadow Cabinet table with she . I be sorry to say that in the last year , I have lose many dear colleague — female mp who have not come back to this place . the voter , I be afraid , bit back , but we will keep push on our side of the House . we will hear from the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , about the short , cruelly shutdown life of those who have be rob from we by femicide . we will acknowledge the impact on their family and friend . I welcome the new Government ' s Minister for Women and Equalities , Baroness Smith of Malvern . I thank the previous Minister , the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , for her sisterhood and her kindness to I in her previous shadow role and in government . but it would be remiss of I not to say at this Dispatch Box that I be disappointed that the role have not be retain in this House . perhaps the Minister might have find time to take it on , because I have work with she over the past 10 year , include on the first Women and Equalities Committee , and there be an admiration — I hope — on both side . I turn to some of the amazing woman in my constituency , include Rev . Canon Martha Mutikani , the new vicar of Scaynes Hill , who follow Rev . Bev and who be in place today ; Sabrina Cohen - Hatton , the West Sussex chief fire officer ; and Katy Bourne , the police and crime commissioner for Sussex . many people know that I have two daughter . one of they be bear on International Women ' s Day , so it be always a cake - versus - march day , and cake have win this weekend . one of my young daughter be now a degree apprentice in a frontline role , and I know exactly what it mean to take on challenge . I must mention Kathryn Hibberd - Little from the Mug Tree in East Grinstead . she be an amazing woman entrepreneur , and above all , she be make the birthday cake , so she be wonderful . I must also mention Helen Tomlinson , the cross - Government menopause champion . I be proud of her work on " no time to step back " . during my time in government , with the now Minister , we work on woman ' s employment , progression , safety , spike and stand up for woman , include menopausal woman , and that be roundly support across the House . as March be Brain Tumour Awareness Month , I would like to mention my friend and constituent Holly Vivian . she be a young mum and nurse live with brain tumour . it be wear a Hat Day soon — please do that for she to raise awareness and fundraise . turn to accelerate action on issue affect woman and girl , there be a fundamental right to be safe from violence . I remind the House that criminality in the home be call domestic violence , and we should never accept it . we should always remind woman and anybody suffer from domestic violence that there be a safe people for they , and we as mp will be there for they in the community . I remind the House about my concern , along with those of Women ' s aid , about the early release scheme . I be sure the Minister will continue to look at the safety of woman regard that scheme , and I hope that Equalities Ministers will work with Justice and Home Office colleague to ensure that dangerous criminal guilty of offence relate to sexual or sex - base violence be not among those get the chance to leave prison early . just last week at Maidstone Crown court , it be report that a prisoner from that scheme grope a woman within 15 minute of be release . I hope the Minister can assure the House on this issue . on safety , I reiterate my party ' s call around the time - limit independent inquiry on groom gang . I thank all member of this House who stand up on this matter , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) and the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , who , like many other , have continue to work on the matter . we can and should go far to ensure that victim be adequately hear and that we continue to protect woman and girl from those appalling crime . the victim of the Wales - wide grooming gang have ask for that , and I hope that the Government , particularly on this day , will listen . the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) talk about mother murder by son . as I say , domestic violence be criminality in the home , and I find that a particularly stark part of this afternoon ' s proceeding . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) talk about erase woman and that we have come too far to go backwards . I know that she will not let that happen . we do not always agree on everything , but we can definitely agree on that . my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) speak about her gale - force mum — an incredible woman — as well as amazing farmer and Olympians in her constituency . I also thank the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , for talk about her work and highlight FGM , which be extremely pertinent . if I can find my final note — I have so many note here — I will bring my remark to a close ; otherwise Madam Deputy Speaker will drag I out . Madeleine Albright say : " it take I quite a long time to develop a voice , and now that I have it , I be not go to be silent . " on the theme of " Accelerate Action " , it be time to listen . MP stand for " most persistent , " and we must all do what we can , together with man and boy , to deliver true equality , safety and fairness for all , on today ' s International Women ' s day and beyond . I call the Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — and all the Madam Deputy Speakers who sit through the debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for secure the debate . she say in her comment that she be the 286th female Member of Parliament . ten year after she be first elect , I become the 311th , so there be only 25 woman between the two of we . yet someone say today that they be the 649th , so the pace accelerate in the follow 10 year . accelerate action be what International Women ' s day be all about this year , so let we keep that up . international Women ' s day be a moment to celebrate the achievement of woman here in the UK and to recognise the enormous contribution they have make across every sector — many member have do that today . it have shine through in the debate , and it have be a privilege to listen as member have reflect on the woman who have influence and inspire they . however , it fall to I to do the thing I do every year . I wish I could be entirely uplifting , but while we celebrate the woman who have light up our life and help to change the world , we lament the loss of those who do not have the chance . the statistic show that , on average , a woman be kill by a man every three day in the UK , and that one in five homicide be domestic homicide . we can not allow that to continue ; we must act now and be relentless in chase the change . many member have mention Raneem ' s law , which the Government have bring in to embed specialist in 999 control room . I hope that that show how important the issue of woman be kill be to the Government — it drive our action . I read out the name Raneem Oudeh and her mother Khaola Saleem on the year in which they be kill . we have also set about put in place the new domestic abuse protection order , which be a huge step forward and already mean that , where perpetrator breach their order , they be arrest swiftly and incarcerate . that come entirely from every domestic homicide review that I have read — they tell I that the consequence can be fatal when a perpetrator breach an order and we do not respond . the Government be also seek to push forward massively on stalk law . many woman whose name I have read out from the list over the year have die because we do not take stalk seriously . one thing the Government will do be allow people to know the identity of their online stalker , which be not currently the case . that proposal be base on the case of Nicola Thorp ; I be go to call it Nicola ' s law . I want to start have law for woman who do not die — for woman who do not have to die so that we change the law . that be what we have to get to . we must go far and push hard . unfortunately , it be too late to protect those already take from we . to ensure that we do not forget they and all the woman who have suffer due to violence against woman and girl — man ' s violence against woman and girl — I will take this opportunity to read the name collate by the amazing woman at the Femicide Census . they collate the list of the woman and girl age 14 and above , and this year four child be include on the list , who have allegedly be kill or be know to have be kill by man in the past year . this be the 10th year I have read this list . I do it now for the first time from the Dispatch Box of the House of Commons . I do it in front of and to honour the family of these woman and the woman who have appear on the list in the past . last year , I say that I feel tired , angry and weary and that I be sick of the failure . but as I stand here today , on the Front Bench , place here by a Prime Minister inspire to action , who mention the reading of the list in the first ever speech he make from this Dispatch Box as the Prime Minister , alongside a Home Secretary and a flight of brilliant Ministers who be totally dedicated to this , I feel hopeful . the woman whose name I be about to read out leave we breadcrumb — they leave we clue as to why they die . we can not stand and say any more that lesson will be learn . what I promise be that I will actually learn the lesson . here be the list this year : Zhe Wang ; Pauline Sweeney ; Carol Matthews ; Ursula Uhlemann ; Tiffany Render ; Frances Dwyer ; Ruth Baker ; Kennedi Westcarr - Sabaroche ; Samantha Mickleburgh ; Rachel McDaid ; Lisa Welford ; Karen o ' Leary ; Sonia Parker ; Tarnjeet Riaz ; Anita Mukhey ; Bhajan Kaur ; Kathryn Parton ; Emma Finch ; Margaret Parker ; Amie Gray ; Maria Nugara ; Patsy Aust ; Veronica Chinyanga ; Delia Haxworth ; Joanne Ward ; Lauren Evans ; Maxine Clark ; Scarlett Vickers ; Sophie Evans ; Joanne Samak ; Carol Hunt ; Louise Hunt ; Hannah Hunt ; Jenny Sharp ; Alana Odysseos ; Laura Robson ; Kulsuma Akter ; Rebecca Simkin ; Olivia Wood ; Courtney Mitchell ; Nina Denisova ; Alberta Obinim ; Stephanie Marie ; Sophie Watson ; Vicki Thomas ; Eve McIntyre ; Montserrat Martorell ; Cher Maximen ; Brodie MacGregor ; Zanele Sibanda ; Bryonie Gawith and her child , Oscar Birtle and Aubree Birtle ; Davinia Graham ; Barbara Nomakhosi ; Christine Everett - Hickson ; Juliana Prosper and her child , Giselle and Kyle Prosper ; Rachel Simpson ; Mary Ward ; Luka Bennett - Smith ; Anita Rose ; Mashal Ilyas ; Rhiannon Skye Whyte ; Catherine Flynn ; Sandie Butler ; Rita Fleming ; Cheryl McKenna ; Carol James ; Phoenix Spencer - Horn ; Harshita Brella ; Alana Armstrong ; Margaret Cunningham ; Kristine Sparane ; Margaret Hanson ; Karen Cummings ; Astra Sirapina ; Mariann Borocz ; Gemma Devonish ; Joanne Pearson ; Teohna Grant ; Heather Newton ; June Henty ; Leila Young ; Julie Buckley ; Jamelatu Tsiwah ; Dianne Cleary ; Claire Chick ; Margaret Worby ; Carmen Coulson ; Rita Lambourne ; Megan Hughes ; Lisa Smith ; Ana Maria Murariu ; Leanne Williams ; and two woman from Birmingham whose name have not yet be confirm . finally , though the suspect have not be identify , I would like to honour the life of Dora Leese and Christine Jefferies . in the last year , Sharon Holland , Chloe Holland ' s mother , ask if Chloe could be remember , because her name would never have be read out on this list . I ask that we remember Chloe , and that alongside she we remember the list of woman who die from suicide , or in unclear , sinister and hidden circumstance where we know there be a history of domestic abuse or sexual violence . those woman ' s name will not make it on to this list , because nobody have ever be hold accountable for their death . today I promise that we be work on these hide homicide . they deserve well . they deserve justice . I will finish by thank everyone who have contribute to the debate . I note in this year ' s debate the number of people who talk about woman who have be harm in their constituency , and the call for action and change have be incredibly heartening . we have hear about make work pay , keep our street safe , and woman who have fight tirelessly to embed true equality into our everyday life . this a fight that demand the very good from all of we , and we must rise to the occasion . under this Government , this issue will get the attention that it deserve . we will keep honour and celebrate woman as we build a society in which they be respect and protect , and we will back up our word with action as we seek real and lasting change , undeterred by those who sit on the sideline while the list of name grow long . I thank the Minister for do what she do and read out those name . this be a very difficult debate to have have , and I feel more emotional than normal because I fear that thing be go to get bad . I fear that that list be go to get long , because we be at a tipping point . if we do not stop what be go on around the world , and if we do not call it out , it will get bad . I thank everybody who contribute to the debate . it have be a powerful debate , and it be wonderful for member to have an excuse to talk about the brilliant woman in their constituency . it have be great to hear about they , and I would love to meet they all . woman have talk about their live experience : about be pregnant and how they be treat as a disabled woman ; about be the young woman in Parliament and how they be treat ; and about be rape and how they have come through that . I hope that everybody outside the Chamber hear that live experience and hear those story . and we should never need an excuse . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider International Women ' s day . political Finance Rules I beg to move , that this House recognise that loophole in regulation allow for opaque funding of political party ; express concern over the prevalence of substantial financial contribution from corrupt individual and foreign government , which render political party susceptible to manipulation and undue influence ; acknowledge the risk these opaque fund pose to national security and the health of our democracy ; far recognise the need to strengthen the power and independence of regulator to help the regulation of political donation ; and call on the Government to tighten the law on permissible donation to make clear that political party can not accept money from impermissible source or from company that have not make enough money in the UK to fund the amount of their donation or loan . before I start my remark , I pay tribute to everything that be say from the Dispatch Box in the last debate by the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . this House and our Government be strong , more effective and more compassionate because of her contribution and her work . I begin by declare an interest : I be a member of a political party . I have spend many year actively involve in party politic as a campaigner , a local councillor and now as a Member of Parliament , so I know that political party sit at the centre of our political landscape and that they be key pillar in our election and our broad democratic system . of course , those party need funding to fulfil their day - to - day function and to contest election . our pluralistic democracy depend on lively and active political party that can campaign and engage with the public . indeed , tomorrow evening I will be back out on the doorstep , clipboard and leaflet in hand , listen to voter and campaign with my local Labour party . those very activity would be impossible without political donation . however , far too often the financing of political party involve suspect donation make their way into party coffer . and the number be not small . research by Transparency International find that £ 115 million in donation — almost £ 1 in every £ 10 of report donation — come from unknown or questionable source between 2021 and 2024 . how have that be allow to happen ? unfortunately , the UK ' s political finance rule , design to block foreign donation and dirty money from seep into political party , be ripe for abuse and riddle with loophole . hostile state actor , kleptocrat and international billionaire be easily able to sidestep the UK ' s permissibility rule and funnel money , via UK - register shell company , into our political party . as it stand , a british company be permit to make donation use money raise overseas , even if the company have not generate sufficient fund to support that same donation . that mean that foreign actor or any mystery donor could legitimately use shell company as a conduit to channel money into political party here in the UK . this be symbolic of a much big problem . it should not be that easy to pump money into british politic behind a layer of corporate secrecy . donation that could come from anyone , anywhere pose a significant threat to the security and integrity of our democratic system . foreign interference in british democracy and election be a direct attack on our sovereignty , our national interest and our vital democratic institution . we have be warn about the problem for many year . a series of independent review body and the security service have sound the alarm time and again . they have make it clear that risk be pose by opaque donation come in from overseas . in 2020 , a report by Parliament ' s Intelligence and Security Committee identify that multiple member of the russian elite with link to Vladimir Putin have try to donate or successfully donate to british political party . later , in 2022 , MI5 warn that an alleged chinese agent have seek to influence parliamentarian on behalf of the chinese Communist party . in 2023 , concern be raise in Parliament about allege link between the Chinese Communist party and party fundraising . the then Minister of State for Policing , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , note that " all political party need to be alert to the danger of representative of hostile state seek to infiltrate or influence their activity . " — [ Official Report , 19 April 2023 ; Vol . 731 , c . 249 . ] I fear that our unhealthy dependence on a handful of large donor also pose a risk of undue influence and capture by narrow vested interest . we know that of the £ 85 million of private donation make in 2023 alone , two third come from 19 mega - donor , each give well over £ 1 million . just recently , one would - be mega - donor dominate headline for that very reason . Elon Musk , the rich man in the world and not a british citizen , be give " serious thought " to donate million of pound to a british political party — Reform UK . as a South African - bear billionaire who live in the United States , Elon Musk can not legally make a personal donation to a british political party , but , as we know , he could easily go through the UK subsidiary of his various company . although that rumour have not yet come to pass , the risk that it pose to the integrity of our democracy can not be overstate . I repeat : it should not be this easy to pump money into british politic , especially from halfway across the world . our democratic institution and election should never be the plaything of a billionaire who can not even vote in a british election , and a UK - register company should not be a convenient vehicle to allow they to make such a donation . even the perception that our political party be capture by those with deep pocket have a corrosive effect on public trust in politic and in we as politician . at a time when that trust be regretfully at a historically low level , we need to tackle that perception head - on and show that our politic be not for sale and can not be unduly influence . how do we go about toughening up the rule ? first , we close the loophole I have outline once and for all and ensure that company be able to make donation only from profit make in the UK in the last two year , as well as introduce a requirement for political party to identify the true source of donor ’ fund . secondly , we need to have a tough deterrent for those who break the rule , because even if Elon Musk be ever to breach election law , why would he care ? the maximum fine that the Electoral Commission can impose be just £ 20 , 000 — not even small change to the world ' s rich man . unfortunately , the previous Government only make matter bad when they strip the Electoral Commission , which be task with regulate political finance , of its independence and far open the floodgate to mega - donation by drastically increase spending limit during election period by around 80 % . strengthen the rule around donation to political party be a manifesto commitment of this new Government . I know that the Government and Ministers be commit to restore trust and protect british democracy , so I hope they will act swiftly on that commitment by restore the independence of the Electoral Commission and empower it to impose much large fine . the Government should also look closely at cap donation and spending , perhaps in line with recommendation put forward by the independent Committee on Standards in Public Life . smart tweak to exist regulation , such as increase fine power , lower reporting threshold and cap spending limit , do not require primary legislation . those change could be enact quickly and still have a significant impact on clean up our politic and ensure that our party be all free from suspect donation . finally , I sincerely hope that Ministers will look closely at the role that shell company play in allow opaque donation to be make here in the UK , often originate from overseas . I be proud that this Labour Government be elect on a mandate to restore integrity in politic . as the Prime Minister rightly state in his victory speech in the early hour : " the fight for trust be the battle that define our age . " I wholeheartedly agree with he , and I look forward to hear from the Government and from hon . member here today exactly how we can win this crucial battle . only by do so can we protect democracy , clean up our politic and rebuild trust with the public . rise — order . as member will be able to tell , we have considerably more member wish to speak than we have time for , so perhaps we will start with an informal time limit of no more than five minute . I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for secure this debate on such a crucial topic . public trust in politic be at an all - time low ; only 12 % of people trust political party , and only 15 % of the population think that political funding be transparent . there be clearly a problem at the heart of british politic . as the hon . Member say , it be particularly bad in our country , because we have an Electoral Commission with very little in the way of tooth or of limit . that leave our democracy open to corrosion and dark money , which we have to be particularly worried about guard against . as the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) say in the previous debate , we must guard our democracy against those anti - democratic force and against dark money — the influence of money in politic be a core part of that corrosion . in the UK , there be no limit on individual donation . that be not the case in Canada , in France , or even in the US . why be there no limit on how much money an individual can donate , and on how much influence they can therefore exert on british politic ? corporate donation be allow here , but be ban in so many other country . foreign donation be theoretically ban here , but loophole mean that an individual such as Elon Musk could quite easily work within exist , very bendable rule in order to exert what would undoubtedly be a very corrosive influence on our politic . the hon . member for South Dorset mention the Electoral Commission ' s lack of enforcement power : the maximum fine it can impose be £ 20 , 000 , yet the influence in our politics total ten of million of pound . just over the past decade , £ 115 million have come from unknown source . this be clearly a serious problem . I welcome the fact that the current Government make a manifesto commitment to strengthen the rule on donation to political party , in order to protect our democracy from foreign influence . I very much hope that in she sum up the Minister will be able to clarify exactly what that will amount to . what action do the Government intend to take in order to protect our democracy from foreign influence ? can she commit to take measure such as strengthen the power of the Electoral Commission to issue fine , reduce the reporting threshold in order to increase transparency , and clarify spending limit ? those measure would not require primary legislation , so can the Government set out the timetable by which they will bring forward those urgently need measure to protect our democracy ? big money in politic be a corrosive influence . this Government have the opportunity to put a stop to it — to bring we up to the standard that other democracy have put in place . will the Minister set out her timetable for do so , and clarify precisely what she will do ? I intend to make a short contribution on one particular aspect of political funding that I believe be especially corrosive to faith in democracy in our country . across North East Hertfordshire , from Buntingford to Thundridge , local community have work hard to create local neighbourhood plan that be pragmatic but full of hope for the future . however , time and again , those plan be overrule , and resident get development that could hardly be further from what they have seek to secure — poorly design , palpably unsustainable , and outrageously overprice . so often , the reason for this be the enormous financial and political pressure that big developer be able to bring to bear on the debate around the future of our town and village in their relentless pursuit of profit maximisation . our constituent will never have faith that our planning system will deliver fair outcome that put nature , community life and genuinely affordable home before developer greed for as long as those same developer — and the lobbyist they employ — be pour vast sum of money into the bank account of political party . give the constant clamour for planning deregulation and the already enormous profit that these developer be make , it be hard to escape the conclusion that those sum of money have be a very wise investment on their part . the Labour Government have inherit the conservative party ' s housing crisis ; we must not inherit the same issue of influence that plague the previous Administration . trust in politic will return only when we make our position unimpeachable , and the future of development in our town , village and countryside be too important even to appear to have be subvert on behalf of private interest . if we want the public to believe that the planning guideline that we set nationally and locally will be fairly adhere to , it be my contention that we must ban all political donation from developer , those who work for they and the lobbyist they employ . I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for secure this important debate . the lack of transparency in the funding of our political party be well document , although I suspect not so well know among member of the public , who tend to associate the corrupting influence of money in politic with other country , usually very far away . the reality be that it be take place on our doorstep . accord to research do by Transparency International , almost £ 1 in every £ 10 report by political party and their member since 2001 have come from unknown or questionable source . some £ 42 million come from donor allege or prove to have be involve in other corruption , fraud or money laundering , and £ 38 . 6 million come from unincorporated association that have not report the source of their income , despite Parliament introduce new transparency rule in 2010 . the rest of its finding highlight million from donor allege or prove to be intermediary for foreign fund and / or a hidden source , and million from company that have not make sufficient profit to support the political contribution they have make . other research have confirm that successive government have invest trillion in the defence industry . our new Government be also propose to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % and then to 3 % . the defence industry be reportedly responsible for approximately 40 % of all corruption worldwide , and much of the money that we and other country spend in defence be funnel back through opaque channel into political party and member . the industrial military complex need to be investigate and dismantle . the fact be that our political finance rule be too weak on hidden money , make the system vulnerable to subordination from rich individual and secretive vested interest . my constituent and people from our country be concern by the malign influence on Government policy of party , Governments and Opposition Members and other Members accept million from state and industry lobby , corporation and mega - rich donor . the hon . Member be make a case . do he agree that foreign money have no role in our democracy , and that one of the strong way in which we can clean up our politic and indeed strengthen our democracy be to make sure that the Electoral Commission have real tooth and have high fine power ? do he also agree that where we have concern about foreign money come into our country , we should have particular concern about money come from people such as Elon Musk ? I completely agree with the hon . member . the action that the Electoral Commission should be permit to take should not just be limit to big , great fine for donor . there should be consequence for those accept donation and potentially be influence . my constituent and the people of this country see and feel in their daily life the deep impact of pro - rich , pro - war , anti - poor and anti - consumer decision and policy . the solution lie in reform : to tighten spending rule ; to shine a light on the source of financial contribution ; to lower spending limit to reduce campaign cost and reliance on large donation ; to introduce donation cap of £ 10 , 000 a year for individual and organisation , as recommend by the Committee on Standards in Public Life ; to remove the corrupting influence of big money in politic ; and to close loophole to ensure that overseas trip for parliamentarian be fund only by trust source . the UK use to lead the way on funding transparency . the UK be a found member of the Open Government Partnership , and place third in the 2014 OECD open datum index , but in recent year the UK have slip . the most recent OECD ranking see the UK fall to 24th place , with story about dodgy dealing , personal protective equipment procurement and minister ' disappear WhatsApp message all contribute to the decline in the trust that the public place in their politician . as have be mention , it should be a cause for grave concern that of the £ 85 million of private donation in 2023 alone , two third come from 19 donor give more than £ 1 million each , the high ever share of mega donation . if we do not want our politic to go the way of american politic , with british equivalent to the like of Elon Musk and his fellow tech billionaire blatantly use money to buy influence and remake politic in their own interest , we need tight regulation of political finance than we currently have , and full transparency for the public . I thank my fellow Dorset resident , my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) , for secure this important debate . it go to the heart of the concern that the public have , namely that economic dominance lead to political influence . money be use to influence politic , and politic be then use to enable those people to make more money through change in law or regulation . this be the issue that worry the public . we also know that civic participation diminish if people feel that they have no influence compare to those with large amount of money . public trust in our political system be at an all - time low . that flow in part from a sense that politician be unable properly to represent those who elect they , that money in our politics exert undue influence that be often obscure from public view , and that those who break the rule that do exist be not adequately punish . nearly 60 % of the public think that funding of political party be not transparent , and only 30 % think that political party that break the rule will face any action . that be why Labour ' s manifesto make the welcome pledge to " establish a new independent Ethics and Integrity Commission , with its own independent Chair , to ensure probity in government . " the commission must be empower to challenge the corrupting influence of not only the developer lobby but other big money donor , include those from the oil and gas industry . we should also close loophole to ensure that overseas trip for parliamentarian be fund only by trust source , and publish clear guidance on the acceptance of gift and hospitality . it be worry , too , that UK political party be rely increasingly on a small number of extremely wealthy people to bankroll their election campaign . the last government increase national campaign spending limit from £ 19 million to £ 34 million , which have intensify the demand for donation across all our political party . as the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) say early , Transparency International UK claim that between 2001 and May 2024 , £ 42 million come from donor allege or prove to have be involve in corruption , fraud or money laundering . political party should therefore be require by law to identify the true source of fund as part of a risk - base approach to donation , and a donation from a company should not be allow to exceed its net profit generate in the UK within the precede two year . a UK - register company be permit to make donation use money raise overseas , which be why political party should be require to conduct check on donation to assess and manage their risk . there be real concern about unincorporated association . such association be not require to check that those who donate to they be permissible , which mean that they could legitimately make donation use funding from otherwise impermissible source , include from overseas . as other member have say , the Electoral Commission should therefore be give power to investigate candidate ' compliance with the rule and to impose sanction . finally , ban company that win public contract from make political donation would end the potential conflict of interest that this create and the perception that political friend have receive political favour . I congratulate the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure this debate , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . as the Prime Minister declare last year , and as we see so graphically on the world stage now , the " fight for trust " will be " the battle that define our political era . " — — [ Official Report , 17 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 56 . ] it be clear that if we mps be to achieve the change that people need most in their life , we need a function democracy . if those we represent do not trust politician to act in their good interest , we will not be an effective institution . currently , it be simply not the case that they trust we . both in the UK and across the globe , faith in politic and politician be at an all - time low . in the UK , 76 % of people have little to no trust in member of this House — up from 54 % a decade ago . I note with no great relish that this may not be surprising after year of a Conservative Government who be more concerned with their internal politic than the concern of people around the country , but it should be a deep concern for we all . rebuild trust in politic be the goal , regardless of our political colour or persuasion . I be sure that all member of the House can support that , but it will not happen overnight . research from the Electoral Commission show that only 15 % of people agree that there be transparency around the money spend and receive by party and campaigner — down from over a third in 2011 . we should be clear that political donation be not inherently wrong and be part of a vibrant democratic system . individual should be able to take part in the democratic process through political donation , which can help people to further the goal and ideal that they believe in . ban any donation would entrench power , leave new or small party unable to campaign against incumbent . it would work against many of our democratic principle , but it be clear that although political donation be a good thing , we must have adequate transparency as to the source of the money . that be currently not the case . the legal framework for the political finance system be now over 25 year old , and though it be explicitly intend to ban foreign donation to UK political party , there be clearly many loophole . there be no doubt that foreign nation have an interest in alter our politic . dictator such as Putin and Xi Jinping have make it perfectly clear that they do not believe in democracy and be willing to undermine our institution , but our current system have build - in loophole that allow foreign interest to channel money to our politic to shape it in their interest . at present , UK - register company be permit to make donation use money raise overseas and , as have be say previously , unincorporated association can legitimately make donation use funding from otherwise impermissible donor . it be not just foreign donation that should cause concern ; the sheer amount of money come from a small number of extremely wealthy donor be also worry . of the £ 85 million receive in private donation in 2023 alone , two third come from just 19 donor . money help direct the political wind , and have that amount of money come from such a small number of powerful individual risk bring our democratic system into disrepute . we must introduce a cap on donation . no matter how noble the intention , no individual should be able to donate excessively , as large donation can at the very least give the impression that undue influence be be exercise over our democracy . this would not only be a positive step in clean up politic ; it would be popular too . a recent YouGov poll find that more than two third of the british public support a limit on political donation . personally , I also have concern about the capacity of union baron to exercise what might appear to be undue influence via the vast amount of money accumulate through the political levy , which they can donate or withhold as they see fit . however , I acknowledge that the issue be complex . we be at a crucial juncture , and it be in everyone ' s interest that the Government get a proper handle on this issue . we can not enter the next general election with so many question leave unanswered . I call Stella Creasy , with a four - minute time limit . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . like everybody in the Chamber , I must be sure to draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . " follow the money " be one of those phrase we always hear , as if there be somehow a crush inevitability that money determine outcome in all area of life , whether personal or political , but now in our democracy there be a clear and present danger that the loud voice and large wallet will dominate , and that the two be connect . even in these difficult political clime , it be extraordinary to think that the existential threat to our country ' s democracy pose by the suggestion that Elon Musk could donate £ 100 million to any political party here have not cause a Cobra meeting to be call , because it be a national security threat . a foreign agent , who be now part of the structure of a foreign state , be openly talk about interfere in our democracy — buy it , and boast about do so — and he be not the only one . I guess that , for many , the idea that politics be so infused with money be not a surprise . after all , we have be try for over 160 year to regulate foreign donation — and indeed local donation — in this country . for the avoidance of doubt , donate to a political party be a noble thing for people to do , give the concern and passion they may have , and we in this Chamber have all seek donation . however , we have see scandal through the year , start with David Lloyd George and include the cash for question affair and the personal protective equipment issue . time and again , Transparency International have draw our attention to the current datum on this , and that be before we even get to Taylor Swift , because she be right : " it ' s I , you , hi — we be the problem " . as politician , we have not regulate this , even though we have see these problem time and again . in the short time available to I , I want to make a plea to the Minister to ensure she be look at the impact at local level . when money be channel through unincorporated organisation , many of we will have see the impact in our community and our constituency and , frankly , the failure of the Crown Prosecution Service and the police to intervene . in America , a 527 group be create primarily to influence the selection , nomination , election or appointment of candidate at local level , and many of we now have third - party organisation that be active in our local community and try to create disinformation to disrupt our local democracy . People may ask what the problem be in my constituency , because I have a substantial majority , but give that one in five mp have a majority of less than 5 % , these activity — fake leaflet , third - party advert on Facebook and so on — could be critical to the outcome of local and , indeed , national election . we have gag law for charity , but we have nothing to deal with the business that be behind this and that be fund these activity . it be a grave irony to I that many of we come here yesterday to defend aid as part of national security work , because part of our aid budget go on tackle disinformation and disruption in the democracy of other country , but we be not do anything about it at local level . just the other week , the Guardian report that a network of Telegram channel with russian link be encourage UK resident to commit violent attack on mosque and offer cryptocurrency in return . these activity be also happen online , as we have all see . the online be now the offline threat , and vice versa . we see that with Cambridge Analytica , and nobody really act then . member be right about the scale of the challenge with regulation and fine , but we need to do something about the fact that much more pressure can be bring to bear on mps at local level because the result have be much close . this be not some Netflix drama ; this be the state of british democracy at the moment . everybody in this Chamber have a vested interest in resolve it so that we can have free speech . I look forward to hear what the Minister have to say . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) , who play an instrumental role in the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , for secure this important debate . I be really proud to stand on a manifesto commitment to strengthen the rule on donation to political party , and I welcome the Government ' s commitment to bring forward an election Bill in due course . I hope today ' s debate will help inform what be in that future Bill , because as other have say , restore trust in our political system and ensure that everyone have a voice in the decision that affect their life be absolutely crucial to british democracy . we know from international evidence the risk of allow ever increase amount of money to dominate politic . I live in Washington DC for almost 10 year and see at first hand the impact of that system , include the world ' s rich man spend a quarter of a billion dollar to bankroll the last election . when billionaire and corporate interest drown out the voice of everyone else , we should not be surprised that people lose faith in democracy work for they . it continue to amaze I that representative of Reform , who unsurprisingly have not turn up for this debate , seem eager to take that approach to politic . they preach populism on the one hand , while court foreign billionaire and their policy agenda on the other . that be not in keep with british value . but this be also about place such as Moldova and other country where we have see russian operative ship money in to buy election . we should not be complacent . other member have cover the threat to the UK , and I would like to pay tribute to Transparency International UK , Spotlight on Corruption and all the other great organisation help to shine a light on the issue . I will move on swiftly to some area on which I hope the Minister will consider reform : transparency , company donation , the Electoral Commission and a cap . on transparency , unincorporated association , as we have hear , be particularly vulnerable to abuse . since 2010 , over £ 40 million have come through unincorporated association and we have no idea where 95 % of that money come from . as it stand , they be not require to check that those who donate to they be permissible , so they could be foreign donor . they be easy to set up , we do not know who be behind they and there be no transparency requirement in law for donation to candidate , as oppose to political party or campaigner . I hope that in a future election Bill , the Government will introduce reform to clamp down on those loophole , include provision on identify people responsible for unincorporated association , permissibility check for political donation and low reporting threshold . we have already hear that company donation be a big issue . I fully endorse the proposal make on the issue by my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset . thirdly , we need robust independent oversight and to restore the independence of the Electoral Commission . we need an urgent review of the requirement for the commission to submit a strategy and policy statement to the Government . I believe that be part of an entirely confect agenda on voter fraud in the Elections Act 2022 . I hope we will repeal that as soon as possible . finally , I believe it be now time to consider cap on political donation . the previous Government ' s massive increase in spending limit and the increase reliance on major donor have convince I that a well - enforce cap would be healthy for our democracy . this be an issue that should unite we as a House . it be about the health of our democracy . there be a lot more we need to do : vote at 16 , automatic voter registration , improve citizenship education , and ensure citizen have a voice between election and not just at they . but on this particular issue , with trust so low , it be vital that we act urgently . last week give I two really clear reminder about why this issue matter . first , I speak with my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) at a rally to mark the illegal invasion of Ukraine . we see a frank reminder of authoritarianism right on our doorstep . then , on Thursday , the Labour party lose a by - election in Vincent Square . while I do not like that result one bit , I be very proud to live in a country where a community can come together and make a decision about who represent they . we currently see more of that sort of politic in this country , with people able to go out to the polling station , but sadly we be at real risk of see it decline . we can not ignore the fact that there be force intent on weaken our voice , our vote and our right in the medium , in business and in politic , and that they be co - ordinating to replace democratically elect regime with those that would do their bidding . these force be spread conspiracy theory , which have drive division and violence in our community . they give a platform to those who would question fundamental british value , and they undermine the democratic process as they question free and fair election around the world . this be not a question of competition within our democracy , but of democracy itself . we need to preserve a system where the voter be the one choose their leader , not billionaire autocrat . keep their money out of our politic be become a difficult task . our finance flow be become more elusive , with cryptocurrency enable money laundering at scale , and our politic have a grow demand for more cash , with ever - grow competition for voter ’ attention . what Member have not have to struggle with an inscrutable Ring doorbell or security gate ? understandable change to home security and design have real impact on our political finance , as we spend more and more money try to reach voter through online ad and direct mail . however , get this money out of our politic be more important than ever at a time when trust in politic be at an all - time low . politician must be effective natural communicator as well as thoughtful legislator , and even the suspicion that we might not be act in our constituent ' interest will far erode the trust that voter do have in their representative . fix political finance be , therefore , an essential part of restore faith in democracy . we have already hear that a tenth of the money in our politic come from unknown or questionable source and be donate through loophole in exist law . now , we have to come to the solution . enforcement be make more difficult by loophole and a weak enforcement system : company House reporting rule be too loose , while the Electoral Commission lack the independence to investigate potential breach swiftly and thoroughly . report obligation for party , elect official and candidate require tighten up , as they allow some individual candidate to accept money without report . meanwhile , the disincentive for bad behaviour , such as fine , be set well below the level that would impact bad actor . we need to close the loophole around unincorporated association , open up political party to great transparency and give more power to enforcement entity . we can not take for grant that voter will always be able to speak truth to power , and we need to fight to preserve a system where british election be decide only by british voter . the force of foreign interference be knock at our door , and we need our Ring doorbell more than ever . as colleague have do already , I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure this debate . I rise to speak as someone who dedicate almost 15 year of my work life before come to this place to be an anti - corruption professional . it be an issue that go to the heart of our politic , so it be somewhat disappointing to see that no back - Bench Members from the official Opposition be present to speak in this debate . this be a vital issue on which we need to build consensus across party line . we have hear about low turnout at election , which , as I think we all know , tear at the very fabric of our society , corrode democracy and the social contract between the citizen and the state . foreign political donation might well be ban in the UK , but the current restriction be far too easy for determined actor to circumvent . in response , we must be bold in reform our outdated oversight of political donation . the risk pose by foreign interference plague all our party . although it be not just about one person , individual or party , I have take the liberty of rake back through donation of year past to illustrate my argument . indeed , just before the election , the Bureau of Investigative Journalism make what should have be impermissible donation to all six major party . all but one — labour — fail to correctly identify that the donation could not be accept under current rule and return the money . elsewhere , the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s 2020 report on russian interference make it clear that russian money have be use not just to buy up sprawling mansion , but to attempt to buy influence in our politic . we have see Lubov Chernukhin , the wife of a former Putin Minister , donate more than £ 2 million to the conservative party . one might ask , what do £ 2 million buy ? well , in return , Lubov be award with a tennis match with Boris Johnson and dinner with Liz Truss and Theresa May — they pick up the bill , presumably . let we also take the case of oligarch Alexander Temerko , who run a russian state arm company and have cough up more than £ 700 , 000 . separately , we know that the russian state and its proxy have a well - document history of interfere in the politic of other country and subvert hard - win democracy , whether that be in the United States , France or Moldova , as my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) mention . we should not be so arrogant as to assume that Britain be immune to this interference . so what can we do ? first , I hope that we will see an election Bill in the next Session , which would provide a golden opportunity to close the loophole we have hear about today , give the regulator real power and safeguard our democracy against foreign influence . if the Minister be look for inspiration , she need only look to organisation such as Spotlight on Corruption , Transparency International UK , as well as the Electoral Commission itself . we should include proposal around make sure that we introduce " know your Donor rule " — or KYD . introduce such rule would require party themselves to conduct proper check on the source of a donation . where that can not be establish , the party themselves will be require to reject that money . secondly , we should close the current loophole in our donation system that allow donation from shell company that have never even turn a profit in the UK . thirdly , we must crack down on unincorporated association , such as the Carlton Club , which can channel donation to political candidate . some unincorporated association have become opaque slush fund to channel money into politic , allow money from undisclosed foreign source to trickle into our election campaign . if we fail to act and send a clear message , we undermine democracy and trust in our politic . we must not allow that to happen , and I urge the Minister to be bold . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for his work in secure this important debate , and member from across the House for their contribution this afternoon . the Liberal Democrats support this motion , which align with our long - stand stance on political finance reform and protect democracy from foreign influence . we have long call for reform to prevent foreign interference and increase the transparency in political donation . we support strengthen the Electoral Commission by restore its independence and increase its enforcement power , include high fine for breach of political finance law . our democracy should never be up for sale to foreign billionaire , oligarchs , or hostile state and , as such , we support this motion , which acknowledge some of those risk . the Liberal Democrats will continue to push for strong measure to protect our political and electoral system . we want to take big money out of politic by cap donation to political party . I be proud that my hon . friend the Member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) present a Bill in this House to do just that . and we want to enhance regulatory power to protect british democracy from the unprecedented threat pose by foreign interference and attack on our democracy . liberal Democrats will make protect our democracy a national security priority . we be see record level of disillusionment with the political process , with citizen become increasingly disengage . research from the Electoral Commission highlight a significant drop in the rate of public confidence in political finance transparency , fall from 37 % in 2011 to about 15 % today . it have also recently point out the threat of foreign influence on social medium , highlight the rise in misinformation and artificial intelligence deepfake in the run - up to the general election in July last year , as well as new issue arise from the change to fact check on popular website . public trust in our electoral process be not help by the disastrous record of the former Conservative Government . it be not just their successive sleaze scandal , which create a crisis of democracy in this country , or their exorbitant voter ID scheme , which disproportionately disenfranchise the young and those from ethnic minority community , but their shameful decision to weaken the independence of the Electoral Commission , and that be a decision that will go down in ignominy . if we be to strengthen our democratic safeguard , and correspondingly strengthen public trust in our democracy , that have to start with empower the Electoral Commission . that be why we need to reverse the Conservatives ' change . we want to strengthen the Electoral Commission by repeal the Government ' s power to designate a strategy and policy statement for the commission . the former Conservative Government also fail to take the threat pose by Russia seriously . they be content to allow russian money to flood into the UK and also to allow russian money to flow into the coffer of their own party . and the manner in which Boris Johnson let the Russia report sit on his desk be shocking . when that report be finally publish , it lay bare the extent to which Russia be a threat , include to our democratic institution . the report say : " the UK be clearly a target for Russia ' s disinformation campaign and political influence operation and must therefore equip itself to counter such effort . " it call russian influence in the UK " the new normal " and say that the Government have underestimate the response require to the russian threat . we continue to call for the full publication of the unredacted report . the russian Government have be accuse of orchestrate a widespread campaign of interference and disinformation that seek to undermine the global order . in September 2024 , the head of MI6 and the CIA jointly warn that the international order be under threat in a way not see since the end of the cold war , accuse Russia of a " reckless campaign of sabotage across Europe " . I hope that the Minister share my concern that this week United States Defence Secretary Hegseth have announce the step back of US counter - cyber measure against Russia . that be an incredibly concern decision by the Americans , which threaten not only their cyber - security but our own . will she update the House on what measure the UK be take to step up our defence of our democratic institution ? we will continue to urge the Government to designate protect our democracy as a national security priority . turn to foreign oligarch , it would be remiss of I not to mention Elon Musk . let we recall that just week before Musk become a US Government official , he suggest that America should liberate the people of Britain and overthrow the UK Government . I hope that other party will join the Liberal Democrats in unequivocally condemn such remark . that incident far prove that we urgently need to tighten up political funding . that include a cap on big donation . we must prevent foreign oligarch from be able to interfere in our democracy . the Liberal Democrats want to take big money out of politic by cap donation to political party , and we support the motion . a fair cap will ensure that politic serve our constituent and not big money . over two third of the british public support a cap on political donation . we must deliver the reform that people be demand . I call the shadow Minister . I will start with a confession : I be one of the reader of the Guardian on the Conservative Benches , and I pay tribute to the helpful article it publish today with the late update of what have be happen in the world of political donation . it illustrate that , despite the increase in spending limit set out in the previous Parliament , the spend at the last general election reduce as political party on all side rein in their spending . the article also set out in some detail the fundraising effort of the party in the Chamber and help to put some of the figure quote in public debate into context . while there may be those promising to donate $ 100 million to british political party , the party in question manage to raise £ 280 , 000 over that quarter , which be approximately an eighth of the fund raise by my party and a bit less than a quarter of the fund raise by the Labour party over the same period . as a dedicated fan of Private Eye , it be clear to I that the transparency bring by the reporting of these donation be enormously helpful ; indeed , it have lead to many of the contribution to the debate . on the whole , the debate have be positive , by and large avoid much of the casting of aspersion we often see and focus on the practicality . I have some brief point to make and then some question to put to the Minister that be very much about the practicality of take forward the work that be under way . first , there be the need to respond as political party and a state to the evolve roster of challenge that we face . we know that practice be be import from the United States , such as the funding of issue - base campaign , which have enormous political impact , include on the election of politician , but be not donation to specific political party . the opposition would clearly be keen to work with the Government to ensure that donation for a political purpose — without be to a political party — be open to the appropriate level of scrutiny . a loophole have recently be create by the decision of Labour in Wales and the SNP in Scotland to extend the franchise to a great proportion of foreign citizen , allow they to vote in british election , because the principle that underpin report be that people can donate to a political party only in an election where they be also able to vote . the fact that two area of our country have different rule on that enable such citizen to donate to those party , because the political party there operate nationally . that be a loophole and an issue that I hope the Government will be address . political finance be see not just in the form of donation to political party but in the lobbying , to which a number of hon . member refer , the trip and the research input . in the last Parliament , there be the lobby scandal that revolve around a chinese spy donate about £ 700 , 000 to Labour party organisation . that be reflect in the challenge that have come from Opposition Members to the Government ' s position on the chinese embassy . while the Government may feel that it be a legitimate foreign policy objective to cosy up to China , many member across party express the view that the influence of China in british politic be a significant concern . let I put some question to the Minister . first , why have the Government choose to abandon the commitment make by Parliament and the last government in the National Security Act 2023 to enhance the power so that regulator , law enforcement and security service could share information with political party ? that process would have specifically help to avoid the kind of situation that occur with Labour ' s chinese spy problem , by enable party to be more informed about who the individual be who be come forward . will the Government take step to close the loophole create by the Labour Welsh Government and the SNP Scottish Government that , for the first time , allow russian , chinese and iranian citizen resident in those country to donate to UK - wide politician and political party ? why have the Minister choose not to include China in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? while we recognise that the Government be pursue great trade with China , which be a legitimate political expectation , be that not a green light to the chinese Communist party to enhance the degree of influence it seek to transact in british politic ? do the Minister and do the Government accept that UK politician themselves be low risk ? it be important that we be here have this debate and seek the high possible standard . in the past , we see gold - plating , with the politically expose person rule that see parliamentarian on all side of the Chamber be deprive of access to basic financial service . do the Minister believe that we need to remove the risk of genuine , legitimate UK politician be debanke because of their political view ? finally , and perhaps most importantly , in the context of the need to maintain consensus , why be the Government fail to consult the political party on their plan for change to political finance law , contrary to the precedent set by past administration of all party ? do the Minister accept the long - stand convention that the Government of the day do not unilaterally seek to impose measure affect political finance to their own partisan advantage ? will she undertake that there will be discussion with the Parliamentary Parties Panel and that there will be formal consultation with the party ? will there be discussion through the so - call usual channel or on Privy Council term ? that way , we can ensure that in the context of electoral law that be complex — and for good reason : to protect the integrity of our democracy — we can retain cross - party confidence that those rule be not be use by the Government in pursuit of their own political advantage . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for open this debate and congratulate the Backbench Business Committee and its key member on grant this debate . I be extremely grateful to hon . member for their insight and excellent contribution , all of which be incredibly valuable as we make progress on such an important agenda . I have hear real passion and conviction in today ' s speech . in those powerful speech in defence of our democracy , our desire to protect it from those who would distort and disrupt it be clear . the UK ' s democratic system have evolve over time to create a stable and adaptable political ecosystem , with strong institution that be rightly hold as exemplar the world over . we can be proud of our historic commitment to expand democratic right and make our system more representative and inclusive . we must not be complacent , however . democracy be hard - won and fragile . the price of our democracy be eternal vigilance , and nowhere be that truer than in campaign finance and political funding . this Government be commit to strengthen our democracy and ensure full participation in our election . we will set out the Government ' s approach to election and electoral reform for this Parliament in a publish document before the summer recess . effective regulation of political finance be crucial in maintain public trust in our electoral system , and that point be well make today in the speech by hon . member . the UK have a strong political finance framework that make it clear that only those with legitimate interest in UK election can make political donation . foreign money have no place in the UK ' s political system , which be why the law be clear that foreign donation be not permit , with the exception of donation from certain irish source to Northern Ireland political party . that recognise the special place of Ireland in the political life and culture of Northern Ireland and be consistent with the principle set out in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . accept or facilitate an illegitimate foreign donation be rightly a criminal offence . political party be require by law to take reasonable step to verify the identity of a donor and whether they be permissible , and there be rule that safeguard against impermissible donation through the back door . while it be clear that foreign donation to political party and other campaigner be illegal , the Government recognise the continue risk pose by actor who seek to interfere with and undermine our democratic process — a point well make by a number of hon . member . we do not think that the current rule provide strong enough safeguard . that be why the Government commit in their manifesto to " protect democracy by strengthen the rule around donation to political party " , include enhanced safeguard against foreign donation . we be consider a series of policy intervention , such as enhanced check by recipient of donation and tight control on donor , include more restriction around company donation . hon . member have mention the important role that the Electoral Commission play in the UK ' s democratic system as the regulator of political finance . robust regulation and enforcement of political finance rule be crucial for promote public confidence and trust in democratic process , ensure integrity and combat the threat of foreign interference . as part of deliver on our commitment to strengthen the rule around political donation , we be review whether any change be require to the role and power of the regulator to ensure that enforcement provide a clear deterrent against break the law while remain proportionate . the Government be develop proposal to give effect to those commitment . in the meantime , I assure hon . member that we be carefully consider evidence from a wide range of stakeholder , include recommendation from the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , the Committee on Standards in Public Life and the Electoral Commission . at its core , that work be about protect the integrity of our democratic process . it be therefore vital that we remain responsive to the full range of threat to our democracy and continue our effort on the related issue of election security and preparedness . work across government with the intelligence agency , the devolve government , the police and external partner , the Government will continue to monitor and respond to emerge issue , such as protective security cyber - threat , as well as misinformation and disinformation . I be pleased to hear the Minister say that the Government be awake to the evolve nature of the threat , especially in cyber and on social medium platform . one of the thing that I hope they look at be the various way that social medium can be use to directly or indirectly benefit political party . the defend democracy taskforce , chair by the Home Secretary alongside the Deputy Prime Minister , be very much look at those issue . my hon . friend talk about the evolve nature of the threat . member on both side of the House have speak of Elon Musk , and I feel compel to do so , too . this be a man who , when our country be go through riot , say that we be on the verge of civil war . this be a man who say that one of our own Ministers should be put in jail . be she able to say for the record that that be exactly the type of person who we need to investigate , and that his money have no place in our politic ? it be crucial that we focus on ensure that our democracy and its integrity be protect from interference and that we have public confidence , and that be our focus . instead of go into specific individual case , my focus be on ensure that we build trust in our system and protect our democracy against interference , and political finance be a key part of that . in closing , I thank hon . member from across the House for their contribution to this important debate , which be rich with suggestion and idea . as we make progress in the come month , I very much look forward to work with colleague , across party , to ensure that we take the necessary action . we want a robust , vibrant and representative democracy , and that mean fight foreign interference and unfair funding . I look forward to bring forward further detail , before the summer recess , on how we intend to strengthen our democracy and uphold the integrity of election . I thank all member for a thoughtful and constructive debate . I thank the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) and my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) for their particularly thoughtful contribution , my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) for his powerful remark about the relationship between donation and public trust , and the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for his consensus - drive contribution . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) for outline the urgent need for change — we can not keep wait for reform to materialise — and my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) for set out the important context of our global responsibility to fight dirty money and clean up politic . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) , who be no long in the Chamber — [ hon . member : " yes she be ! " ] oh , she be . apology — she have be play musical chair . I thank she for highlight what be at stake if we fail to defend our vibrant democracy . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) for outline robustly the risk pose by russian oligarch and their dirty money . we must stand up against it . before I bring my remark to a close , I gently say to the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) that this be an important discussion — I think we all agree on that — but we must always be drive by fact and evidence . oversimplify the argument mean that we will not get the right outcome . I believe that one can support a policy such as increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % without somehow be in hock to or in the pocket of the military industrial complex , as he put it . that be a gross oversimplification , and I gently remind he of that . finally , I thank the Minister for her contribution . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to set out their thinking on this important issue later this year . I thank she for reconfirm that foreign donation have no place in british politic and for make it clear that the Government agree about the need for strong safeguard . the Electoral Commission will play a crucial role in this . we must ensure that it be fully independent . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise that loophole in regulation allow for opaque funding of political party ; express concern over the prevalence of substantial financial contribution from corrupt individual and foreign government , which render political party susceptible to manipulation and undue influence ; acknowledge the risk these opaque fund pose to national security and the health of democracy ; far recognise the need to strengthen the power and independence of regulator to help the regulation of political donation ; and call on the Government to tighten the law on permissible donation to make clear that political party can not accept money from impermissible source or from company that have not make enough money in the UK to fund the amount of their donation or loan . Petition - East Park Energy Solar Farm Further to my online petition of resident in Cambridgeshire and Bedfordshire that have receive 1 , 100 signature , I present this petition from constituent of Huntingdon and north Bedfordshire who will be impact by the propose East Park Energy solar farm . the proposal announce by Brockwell Storage and Solar to build a solar farm , know as East Park Energy , which will , at 1 , 900 acre , be big than Gatwick airport , have cause great concern among resident in the parish of Hail Weston , Great Staughton , Little Staughton , Keysoe and Pertenhall . the development have be designate a nationally significant infrastructure project and be be build on farmland , 75 % of which be grade as good and most versatile land — grade 2 and grade 3a . the propose solar farm stand to have a significant impact on local life , as 700 , 000 photovoltaic panel be instal on 250 , 000 pile - drive metal post . the site have even be build on top of a roman town that have be identify but not excavate . local resident feel that their voice in opposition to the scale of the project be foist upon they have not be hear , and that the Government be unprepared to listen to they . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to not approve the East Park Energy proposal and to take immediate action to remove its Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project status . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Cambridgeshire and Bedfordshire , declare that the announce proposal by Brockwell Storage and Solar to build a 1 , 900 - acre solar farm , know as East Park Energy , have cause great concern amongst resident of Cambridgeshire and Bedfordshire , who be deeply worry as to the scale of the development , and that the development have be classify as a Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project , which have raise additional concern about its impact on resident ; far declare that the propose site would result in the loss and permanent damage of Grade 2 and 3a agricultural land , remove it from food production ; and note that an online petition on this matter receive 1 , 067 signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to not approve the East Park Energy proposal and to take immediate action to remove its Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project status . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003050 ] Geothermal Energy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Samantha Dixon . ) I be grateful to have be grant this Adjournment debate , as it provide a welcome opportunity to put on the record in this new Parliament the benefit that deep geothermal could deliver for our country , in particular for part of our country that most need investment , while make a contribution to the vital issue of energy security . help I in this effort be the all - party parliamentary group on deep geothermal , which the Association for Renewable Energy and Clean Technology help to administer . I be delighted to spot the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) and for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) in the Chamber , who be all member of the APPG , which provide I with an opportunity to recognise and thank they for the work they be do for the cause . deep geothermal energy remain an underutilise resource in the UK , despite its potential to provide reliable renewable heat in particular , and also power . with grow pressure to secure our energy future and decarbonise heating , now be the time to give this technology the attention it deserve . as we work towards energy security and decarbonisation , we must explore every viable renewable energy source . deep geothermal offer a stable and sustainable solution , yet it remain largely untapped in the UK . to unlock its potential , the Government must take the lead , provide the necessary support to get project off the ground and demonstrate their long - term viability . one of the big challenge we face in the journey to net zero be the decarbonisation of heating , which must be treat as a priority . the UK have more than 28 . 5 million home and 1 . 9 million other building — include office , hospital , shop and warehouse — the vast majority of which rely on gas boiler for both heating and hot water . these building alone account for nearly one fifth of the UK ' s total emission . the Climate Change Committee have identify decarbonise heat as one of the most difficult yet essential step in reach net zero . achieve net zero by 2050 require we to use every tool at our disposal . while much of the Government ' s attention have be focus on air and ground source heat pump , alongside other electrification method , which have an important and certainly dominant role to play , convert the entire housing stock to those technology will put immense pressure on our electricity grid and supply chain . that be where deep geothermal stand out . it offer a reliable , low - carbon solution for heating that be not dependent on sun or wind — it be there all year round , whatever the weather — and have be successfully deploy in other country to great effect . do the hon . Member agree that geothermal , as a baseload energy source that can be develop quickly , should be include in the Government ' s clean power plan and have the priority that that afford for grid connection ? I fully support the hon . member ' s effort to raise this issue . she will know from the local project in her constituency that we be make a start , but it be not enough , and this need to be part of the broad plan in a comprehensive way . when I first learn about deep geothermal technology , I think it sound too good to be true : an environmentally friendly , reliable and cost - effective source of heat and power right underneath our foot . but the more I explore it , the more I realise it truly live up to its promise . let I briefly explain the technology . deep geothermal tap into naturally occur hot water deep underground to produce significant amount of usable heat and energy . make use of that be no different from the way in which the Romans build their bath above hot spring ; we just run a pipe down instead of rely on the water make its own way to the surface . People sometimes wonder whether the technology be fracke mark 2 . fracke involve the use of high pressure to crack the rock to create artificial flow . like Europe , we have access to resource of naturally flow water that simply need to be tap . Greenpeace , Friends of the Earth and the United Nations all support deep geothermal in the light of its environmental benefit . a site be typically 1 to 2 acre . it do not take up huge swathe of farmland like solar panel can or involve erect wind turbine , which some community think detract from the local landscape . I thank the hon . member for give we the opportunity to discuss the potential of geothermal and the barrier when it come to planning . in my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , we have business that be at the forefront of both shallow geothermal energy , with ground source heat pump develop by Kensa , and deep geothermal system such as those be pioneer by the Geothermal Engineering Ltd deep geothermal power project , which be soon to become operational . do he agree that industry need Government support , include plan reform to reduce deployment timescale , and a UK geothermal licensing scheme to calculate the size of the geothermal asset and how that asset be protect in law ? I agree with the hon . member . the Government need an entire strategy for deep geothermal that will hopefully draw attention to those different piece of the puzzle , include planning and licensing , which be so important . not too far away from his constituency be the Eden Project , which people see as a byword for environmental credential in this country . it be pioneer this technology , which be a powerful testimony to its environmental benefit . since the closure of the non - domestic renewable heat incentive in 2021 — unfortunately just as interest be peak from industry — deep geothermal , unlike solar and wind in their early beginning , have be without comprehensive Government support to develop the market . there have be encourage breakthrough , as be mention , and in 2023 the UK ' s first operational deep geothermal plant to open in 37 year go online at the Eden Project . deep geothermal also make its historic debut in allocation round 5 of contract for difference , with three project from Geothermal Engineering Ltd securing approval , total 12 MW of capacity . at Langarth garden village , green heat network funding be now support the development of a geothermal - power heat network to turn that resource into local supply . those success show that , with the right backing , geothermal can become a key player in our transition to clean , sustainable energy . however , those ad hoc win be not provide the sort of comprehensive dedicated approach that we need . as it stand , the UK have fall far behind other country that have for some time harness the potential of deep geothermal . if we look across Europe , as of 2022 there be 74 project in France , 31 in the Netherlands , and 190 in Germany . deep geothermal energy heat more than a quarter of a million home in Paris , and the french Government aim to increase the number of scheme by 40 % by 2030 . Munich be pour in € 1 billion through to 2035 to develop deep geothermal and make the city ' s heating carbon neutral . in fact , Germany be already produce more than 350 MW annually , and the Government be target at least 100 new geothermal project . across Europe alone , hot sedimentary aquifer have the potential to provide eight terawatt of heat at 90 ° c — 30 time more than the district heating system that currently serve 70 million people across the region . the potential be enormous . I would be look on badly if I do not briefly mention the British Geological Survey , which be base in my constituency . the hon . member talk about what be happen in Europe , but do he agree that in the british Geological Survey in this country we have one of the world ' s expert in study geology and geothermal technology , which could help unlock what we be do in this country with deep geothermal ? the hon . member be right , and I join he in pay tribute to the BGS , an organisation I have have the pleasure of work with over recent year . it have do fantastic work in mapping and identify the potential , and with funding it will have the appetite to go even far , reduce uncertainty by help developer and investor to understand the resource underneath our foot . the UK be already a world leader in tackle climate change and clean energy , have be the first major economy to halve our emission , and renewable now account for more than 50 % of our electricity , up from just 7 % in 2010 . with deep sedimentary basin in east Yorkshire and Cheshire , granite in Cornwall and Scotland , hot sedimentary aquifer in Surrey , Dorset , and Sussex — in my constituency — the UK ' s unique geography put we in an ideal position to exploit the benefit of geothermal energy . I be grateful for the work that the hon . Member have do in this area . York have rich source of deep geothermal . the York Central site could heat 30 , 000 home in my constituency , yet the local authority and other body do not have the confidence to bring those project on board . do he agree that the Government could provide tool and support to enable such project to come to fruition , as well as just improve basic understanding ? the hon . member be completely right — forgive I , she be also a member of the APPG although I do not recognise that at the start of my remark . one thing we can do through the APPG — we start to do this in the last Parliament , and I be try to reconstitute it — be to help interested local authority form a group and support they . this technology be new to they , and they do not necessarily have the expertise and understanding . again , the hon . member be right : these be the sort of thing that a comprehensive Government - lead strategy could help to address close the gap . as I say , the resource in Europe , and the rock that be be exploit , be essentially exactly the same vein of rock that cross the channel . there be no geological difference and no less potential than with the rock that be be exploit in Europe . it be true that the heat and rock necessary for deep geothermal electricity be rare here in the UK , with Cornwall lead the field , which be where the project I mention be get off the ground , but historically the focus on electricity have cause we to overlook the potential for heat . the Association for Renewable Energy and Clean Technology — REA — work with Arup to assess the UK ' s potential . they estimate that the UK could support 360 geothermal plant , produce 15 , 000 GW of heat each year , which could supply heating to over 2 million home through heat network . additionally , some of those plant could generate around 400 GW of electricity annually , enough to power a further 150 , 000 home . the Minister will be look closely at secure the good possible value for money from every penny invest in renewable technology , but I want to make four point about the way in which this exercise should be undertake , because too narrow a framework would underestimate the benefit of deep geothermal to our economy overall . first , as I allude to early , solar and wind be cheap now , but they do not use to be and we need to think about the potential trend cost . secondly , as mention , deep geothermal be baseload , unlike solar and wind , and that have to be give due consideration . thirdly , there be the question of where the investment will end up . I have the opportunity to work with the Durham Energy Institute as part of a national review into deep geothermal for the previous Government . we identify that deep geothermal can play a key role in level up , with six of the 10 least economically resilient local authority also have the high geothermal potential . some 44 % of the list of high potential location for deep geothermal fall within the top 100 UK local authority in need of level up , three time the amount that we would expect as a result of chance . invest in the sector would create thousand of well - pay job and drive green growth in area that need it most . fourthly , deep geothermal provide a natural transition for oil and gas worker , as many skill , such as drilling , be directly transferable . oil and gas company — sometimes UK company — be deliver these project across Europe . surely this be the obvious industry to invest in to protect those job and business as we transition . how might we go far in the short term ? I have work with the industry to develop a ready - make plan . I ask the Minister to look closely at the proposal that the APPG have produce to create a carve - out in the public sector decarbonisation scheme to unlock this opportunity . the PSD scheme have already play a crucial role in help public sector building transition to low carbon heating solution . however , a specific programme could be carve out to support an initial cohort of deep geothermal project , ensure that school , hospital and other public building can benefit from this reliable , renewable heat source . by do so , the Government would not only accelerate the decarbonisation of public infrastructure , but provide a strong foundation for the wide geothermal industry to scale up and attract investment . I have speak in the Chamber before about how hospital be fantastic anchor candidate for deep geothermal plant . industry leader have identify that , of the 210 NHS hospital in England and Wales that have be prioritise for decarbonisation due to their high heat demand , 109 overlie potential geothermal aquifer . the advantage of work across the NHS be that we can bundle up opportunity to create a big investment opportunity . I know that hospital across the country be already explore this , include Eastbourne district general hospital , which service my constituent in Bexhill and Battle . one of the challenge for deep geothermal be scale of cost and uncertainty . Solar and wind be cheap and more certain investment . a single geothermal plant be expensive and can not be guarantee to tap into the reserve the analysis suggest will be find . by pool together the investment opportunity of a number of site , economy of scale be create , the risk of not all the site deliver can be factor in and the number can still be make to add up . the private sector be willing and able to invest in such an opportunity . I have personally meet representative from a number of capital fund and deep geothermal developer and they would leap at such a project . we estimate that a dedicated fund of just £ 15 million for 10 plant at 10 public sector site could unlock £ 250 million of private sector investment and kick - start a wide industry in the UK . will the Minister meet I and other member of the APPG to discuss that in the near future ? alongside that , there be a powerful argument for a broad geothermal development incentive , model on the heat incentive , which will provide business with confidence that geothermal be part of the UK ' s energy future . it could be model on contract for difference , ensure a competitive process , but by offer scale we would again be reduce risk for development . I know there be concern about open - end support for any industry , but the aforementioned REA - Arup report model support for only an initial wave of 30 project that would help establish a scale industry in the UK , which could then stand on its own two foot . establish a deep geothermal strategy be crucial to set clear target and provide a long - term road map for the sector . will the Minister advise whether the Government will produce such a strategy ? government support be key to enable a route to market for the sector . I know the Government be shortly due to publish a review of the comparative cost of deep geothermal . when do the Minister expect the review to be publish ? that would provide a welcome update . I know that industry stakeholder that work with the APPG and other would be happy to act as critical friend of that review ahead of publication . would the Minister be happy to facilitate that ? it be so important to ensure that this review have look at all the evidence and can make full use of the experience of industry . the APPG also consider and be try to raise awareness of the benefit of shallow geothermal , as the hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) mention . while it be very closely related to deep geothermal , as we might expect , that industry face different challenge , but it could offer solution even more widely . I know that significant private sector investment be available . again , we be talk about a technology that could reduce the strain on electricity - drive grid connection . for both sector , GB Energy might well be expect to play a vital role . can the Minister confirm my expectation that its remit will extend to heat as much as to electricity , and can she confirm whether the mandate from Government will ask it to consider deep geothermal specifically ? on that point , could the Government not help the industry by also ensure that there be an overarch geothermal regulatory regime , which I think it be fair to say we do not really have yet in the UK ? would the hon . Gentleman support that be bring forward ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ; that be one of the piece of the jigsaw that will far unlock private sector investment . in my engagement with industry , that be slightly far along the chain of thing that it be look for — the number do not add up at all at the minute , let alone a proper regulatory regime be in place . as soon as we unlock the number , the demand for all the other area will really ramp up , which be why we need this thought - through strategy from Government so that they can anticipate and prepare to bring in the other element when they become particularly important . I hope that I have do an adequate job of showcase the industry and its potential . everything we have learn in recent year show that we need to take advantage of every opportunity . we need to build the big coalition , deploy the large possible workforce and spread the benefit of decarbonise as widely as possible if we be to succeed and bring the country with we in the challenge . I can not think of a well way of do that than put dedicated resource into deep geothermal . I know that it could bring benefit to my constituent and to the constituent of many other member and unlock hundred of million , if not billion of pound of investment into our economy . I look forward to hear about the Minister ' s plan and ambition , which I hope will get we there . I thank the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) for bring this important issue to the attention of the House . I also thank my hon . friend for their contribution and for the valuable way in which they have engage in this debate . the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle have be a great champion of deep geothermal energy in recent year , and the role he have play in the formation of the all - party parliamentary group on deep geothermal be commendable . I be very pleased to attend its meeting in December , and I be grateful for the engaged and constructive discussion that we have . I agree with the hon . member that there be a huge opportunity here , and I echo his desire for action and pace ; I will briefly say why I share that desire . he will know , as I do , that we be come out of the bad cost of living crisis that we have see in a generation , and energy have be at the very heart of that crisis . the reality be that energy be unaffordable for too many people and increasingly out of reach for people who absolutely rely on it as an essential good , and we as a Government be determined to fix that . that mean that we need to take action to lower energy bill by break our reliance on international fossil fuel market and sprinting towards clean , home - grow power . that be why the Government be so committed and why we be run at our clean power by 2030 mission , but it be also why our warm home plan be absolutely critical . I reassure the hon . member that we see that geothermal power have a critical role to play in our energy mix , follow its success in the fifth auction round of contract for difference . I agree that geothermal energy represent an important opportunity — if the hon . member hear nothing else I say today , I ask he to hear that . it have the potential to deliver clean and secure energy and heat , reduce our reliance on fossil fuel market . as he mention , we be acutely aware that geothermal energy could also support a just transition by create thousand of job that use skill from our oil , gas and coalmine sector . the Government provide financial support for geothermal project today , and we will continue to do so . the critical thing be ensure that this be do at an acceptable cost to consumer and in an environmentally friendly way . as the hon . Member mention , the most widespread potential for deep geothermal in the UK be as a low - carbon heat source for heat network . I be convinced that heat network have a really important role to play as we roll out clean heat and upgrade million of home across the country . we have the opportunity to grow their market share from 3 % today to 20 % by 2050 . one of my first visit as the Minister for energy consumer be to the Mersey heat network , where heat from the Leeds and Liverpool canal be be use to provide hot water and low - carbon power for thousand of people , thank to a water source heat pump . that be a great example of how community can benefit from local energy source , which be what the hon . Member and my hon . friend be advocate for in this debate . I completely commend that and support it . there be significant geothermal success story , such as in Gateshead , where the first mine water heat network to become operational in the UK receive £ 5 . 9 million from our heat network investment project . that money enable the council and Gateshead Energy Company to install 5 km of new heat network pipe and a 6 MW water source heat pump . today , that network heat 350 council home and the Baltic art centre , with 270 more home to be add . the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle refer to the public sector scheme . geothermal heat project supply public sector site be eligible to apply for support provide that they meet that scheme ' s eligibility criterion , and again , I agree with he that there be a big opportunity here . I would add , however , that any change to the scheme would need to be consider once the current spending round be complete . that be what he would expect I to say , but I reassure he that I be very happy to meet he and member of the APPG to discuss their proposal . the point to emphasise be that the current scheme be base on go project by project , which undermine our ability to bundle up the risk , which be so vital to deep geothermal . that be the key change we be look for : the opportunity for a number of site to be pull together , which be what will be most attractive to investor . we want to think about creative way in which we can unlock the potential for investment , so I be very keen to meet the hon . member and member of the APPG so we can hear those proposal . I give he that reassurance . not just today but over recent year , the hon . Member have make a convincing case for the merit of pursue deep geothermal . the Government remain committed to explore the renewable energy opportunity afford by our geography and geology . however , I hope the hon . Member will understand that the priority now — and the thing my boss have task I with — be develop the warm home plan . it would be premature for the Government to set a geothermal strategy with detailed target in advance of that plan . for we , it be a question of sequence ; for instance , if we be to make the most of geothermal ' s potential , we need to start by create an environment that enable the growth of heat network and , crucially , protect consumer along the way . to that end , the Department will bring forward a market regulatory framework in January 2026 to improve consumer protection . we be also consult on heat network zoning , which be an essential part of our plan to establish and accelerate heat network . we think that will significantly increase private sector investment and remove some of the barrier . we be committed to take a long - term , strategic view , and we be try to sequence this work so that we develop the warm home plan and build the enable environment . however , I absolutely recognise the need for we to set a policy framework in which geothermal energy can thrive . the Minister know that I really admire the work she be do in this space , and my intervention be more of a query than anything else . she have mention the warm home plan ; be a sense emerge of how many of the 5 million property we be target through that plan might be feed by district heating and associate technology ? be there a crystallisation of what that construct might be , to get we to the 5 million home that we be target ? we know that there be a big opportunity for district heating , particularly in some of our urban centre . in the work that we be try to do through the warm home plan , we be think about where those opportunity be and make sure that we work with regional and local government to do some of the planning and the identification of those opportunity . that mean that we can take a strategic approach , area by area and place by place . I be really grateful for all that the Minister be do in this area . however , some of this work be quite time - sensitive ; for instance , we have a major development in York , the first phase of which go into planning in September . we very much want to work with Government to see what we can deliver in York Central . would the Minister be prepared to work with we to see whether we can get this model work on some of those micro site ? we be keen to work with member across the House , and with local and regional government . we have set ourselves a challenging set of ambition , so we be clear that we need to work with anyone that can unlock and bring forward investment opportunity , so as to realise those over the course of the Parliament . it would be remiss of I if I do not say that we recognise that for all the opportunity , there be still challenge face by industry to secure the necessary investment . as a result , as the hon . Member say , few deep geothermal project in the UK be financially viable without Government support , unlike what we see on the continent and in other country . the hon . Member mention the role of great British Energy . we be clear that it will provide further opportunity for investment in clean energy . the great british Energy Bill set out that " ' clean energy ' mean energy produce from source other than fossil fuel " , include geothermal , so let I reassure he that it be within scope . great British Energy be an independent organisation , but we will give it clear direction that it should be look at all the opportunity that could be exploit across the country and at different technology , such as geothermal . deployment at scale be also unlikely unless there be a demonstrable pathway to bring down the cost of geothermal heat to make it comparable to other renewable technology . we know that . it be why we have be work with stakeholder to improve our knowledge and understanding in this area . in 2024 , we commission a cost research project , to which the hon . Member refer . we intend to publish that this year . I be ask my official to work at pace to do that , but I reassure he that we will be engage with industry prior to publication , and he have my assurance that I will facilitate that to ensure that it happen . my hon . friend the Member for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) commend the British Geological Survey , and I share his enthusiasm for it . we have commission work from it on open access tool that show the technically viable opportunity for geothermal project in the UK , and we will continue to work with it . the UK be also an active member of the International Energy Agency technology collaboration programme on geothermal energy — that be a mouthful — which have enable we to gather far learning and to learn from other international example . all that be to say that we see the opportunity and we be try to build the evidence base . we want to work with industry to think about how we unlock geothermal , because we see it as a viable route to the expansion of heat network and to deliver the objective of warm home and cheap bill . in conclusion , we be absolutely committed to the project and to deliver warm home . we know that we need a range of technology to do that . we can not do this sprint on our own , so we will always want to work with industry to enable we to get there . I thank the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle again for secure this debate , and I thank my hon . friend who be here for be such avid champion of geothermal . my Department be keen to work with they , and I look forward to meeting in due course . question put and agree to . House adjourn .