point of Order I pay tribute to the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , who both speak very movingly on behalf of the victim of this tragedy who want to see justice do . I venture to suggest that what they want above everything be to know that nothing like this will ever happen again — that whatever happen that night , there will be some glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel and that some good will come of it . I praise the Secretary of State for recognise that it be the system itself that need the most fundamental reform , and that the failure of individual — whatever incentive exist and whatever conflict be unresolved — be system failure . the cultural shift will come about as a result of a systemic review — a system change . hon . member might well ask why I be take an interest in this debate . I do not think I represent any community in a high - rise building with cladding problem in leafy Essex . the only interest I have to declare be that it turn out that my late mother be live in a block with unsafe cladding , so , to a very limited and minor extent , my family be suffer the loss of be unable to sell her flat . that be very small beer , but I put that down as an interest I should declare . I have long take an interest in safety management system — ever since I be shadow Secretary of State for Transport at the time of the Ladbroke Grove disaster , when I take an interest in what be be submit to the inquiry and make a submission of my own , recommend that there should be a systemic approach to the safety system . that result in the formation of the rail accident investigation branch of the Department for Transport , with the result that no inquiry into a rail accident have ever take place again . similarly , as Chairman of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , I take a close interest in patient safety because we receive the report from the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . we have Mid Staffordshire and all the maternity scandal , and we have public inquiry after public inquiry , until somebody suggest that there should be an investigation body accountable and answerable to the Secretary of State to look at why thing go wrong in patient care and investigate the cause of incident — without blame , incidentally — to find out what go wrong in order to make recommendation and put it right . those be the lesson draw from all the effective safety regime in other industry , which should perhaps be apply in this case . I co - author a submission to the Grenfell inquiry with three other . the first be former Labour Housing and Fire Minister Nick Raynsford , who , at the time , be chairman of the Construction Industry Council approve inspector ' s register — CICAIR — which relate to the private sector building control surveyor the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) speak about . I will come on to that conflict , which the hon . Gentleman be very concerned about . another co - author be Kevin Savage , a lead figure in the building control profession ; he happen to be a constituent of mine , but that be a coincidence . the third be Keith Conradi , the former chief investigator of the air accident investigation branch of the Department for Transport — who , as it happen , become the first chief investigator for the Health Services Safety Investigations Body , which , as a result of the inquiry conduct by my Committee , be now a statutory body . he help set that body up ; he be now retire . he help with the submission . Keith Conradi in particular enable we to understand building safety management as a safety management system . the event lead to the Grenfell disaster be not just the random failing or crime of individual . where there be culpability , prosecution must certainly follow , but that be not the main point . Grenfell and previous fire , such as Lakanal House , demonstrate that there be a comprehensive failure of the safety system that should exist to keep building as safe as possible . we make our submission in September 2021 . after seven year — a disadvantage of public inquiry be that they take a very long time — I be disappoint that the inquiry do not really find time to engage with our recommendation . it do publish our submission , but from the recommendation , I think it be fair to say that a number of issue have be hand back to the Department to be resolve . paragraph 113 . 58 , entitle " implement change " , simply suggest that the London Fire Brigade should " establish effective standing arrangement for collect , consider and effectively implement lesson learn from previous incident " . that be an odd recommendation when we think about it , because the London Fire Brigade be itself very , very severely criticise in the report . that it should be leave responsible for mark its own homework and make recommendation about itself underline that the lacuna in the recommendation be the lack of an investigation body . there be two other paragraph about build control that I shall come to : paragraph 113 . 37 and 113 . 38 . those be our two urgent priority to be address in our submission . by the way , I be very grateful to the Minister for accept our request for a meeting , which the Prime Minister promise on the Floor of the House when he announce the outcome of the inquiry . we have a very good meeting with the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention . I think she be take with our recommendation but I think that they fall to the Minister ' s Department , so I look forward to meet he later this week .