I will be brief , but I be very pleased to be able to speak in this debate as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the Chagos island , which last week have its 103rd meeting . it have be ably support by David Snoxell , the former british high commissioner to Mauritius , who have do incredible work with his knowledge of and empathy for the chagossian people . there be two former chair of the group in the Committee at the moment — the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) and for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) — and the former Member for Crawley be also chair of the group at one time . we found that group a long time ago to listen to , and take action in support of , the Chagos islander , who be angry that they have be forcibly remove from their home , angry at the way they have be treat by successive british government , and very angry at the initial decision that be take and the sheer brutality that go with it . to give member a brief example , in 1973 a 20 - year - old chagossian woman , Liseby Elys é , while carry her unborn child , be forcibly remove from the Chagos island of Peros Banhos . she lose her unborn child soon after her traumatic upheaval and the journey , and she and her husband survive with considerable uncertainty and in very precarious living condition , like all other Chagossians . however , 45 year later , in 2018 , she represent her community at the Hague when she speak about her life and her loss . her story be compelling and memorable , like those of so many other Chagos islander , because of the personal horror , trauma and abuse that they suffer . they have always demand and fight for their right of return , and that be the central core of what the all - party parliamentary group on the Chagos island have do . I realise there be now different opinion in the group about the sovereignty or otherwise of the island , but there have always be a fundamental agreement on the right of return . that lead to massive legal action , which be bravely fight by the Chagos islander with very little support . there be a few people such as Richard Gifford , their solicitor , who be fantastic in their support . eventually , we gather wide support , and we get favourable decision at all level of justice around the world , include at the United Nations General Assembly . it be worth recall , as many member have do , the 1965 decision make by Harold Wilson , then Prime Minister . in offer Mauritius its independence , he come to this extraordinarily complicated deal , which essentially involve the United States get a base on Diego Garcia and , in return , Mauritius get its independence . somewhere along the line , as the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) point out , there would either be a discount on the next generation of nuclear weapon , or free delivery of weapon at some point in the future . a lot of this be shroud in mystery , in the private conversation between Wilson and Prime Minister Ramgoolam at the time , so there be a lot of confusion surround that . somewhere at that time the idea be to set up the British Indian Ocean Territory , and somewhere at that time the decision be make that the archipelago — include Peros Banhos , which be a considerable distance from Diego Garcia — would be separate from Mauritius as well and that it would have to be depopulate , hence the utter brutality of the removal of the entire population from the island . so the question that many member have bring up be this : should the Chagos island be separate from Mauritius or part of Mauritius ? interestingly , during the 1965 discussion Mauritius never accept the separation . it never accept that the Chagos island should be separate either constitutionally or in any other way from Mauritius . as we know , the decision be basically force on the Mauritians in return for their independence . we now have a situation in which we have finally get a treaty . it have its imperfection — of that everyone be agree . personally , I be less than happy about the idea of a massive military base on Diego Garcia , and even less happy that it might be there in 100 year ' time . however , a treaty have be agree that will ensure the right of Chagos islander to return to the Chagos island , but unfortunately only a limited right of return to Diego Garcia itself . I be look forward to the Minister ' s speech , and I would be grateful if be able to say a bit more about the right of access to Diego Garcia for Chagos islander , their right to visit the church and the grave of their ancestor , and whether there be some possibility of a degree of residence on Diego Garcia . there be no other place in the world where a military base be surround by an entirely depopulated area , in this case an island , and I would be grateful if the Minister be able to say something about that . we have fight for the right of return . I fully understand that Chagos islander — some resident here , some in the Seychelles , many in Mauritius , and other in a diaspora all around the world , in France and many other place — probably all have different view and different memory , but in the survey that be do when this issue be discuss at great length about 10 year ago , they be all in favour of the right of return . the issue of sovereignty under Mauritius be not really a great feature of those discussion , although it appear to be now . we should listen to the Chagos Refugees Group , base in Mauritius and lead brilliantly by Olivier Bancoult , who have be through every court case . indeed , he start the whole process of demand the right of return , which have eventually be successfully achieve . the statement that the Chagos Refugees Group make last week say : " the Agreement therefore meet the aim of our community to be reunite with our Islands . it have be conclude after nearly 3 year of negotiation between Mauritius and the UK and extensive consultation . unless , therefore , the Agreement be approve and implement , our exile will continue with no hope of restore our fundamental human right to return . it be the creation of BIOT on 8 June 1965 , 60 year ago , which lead to our exile . " we be see another page in the dramatic history of the indian ocean . surely we should recognise the human right of the people who be so disgracefully treat by Britain — and by the United States , but principally by Britain . they , at last , will see some degree of justice and the ability to return to their island . I hope , when the Minister reply , that he will be able to give I some hope and comfort on the question of access to Diego Garcia , and also explain why it be necessary to have these incredibly long lease for the US to continue its operation on Diego Garcia . it seem to I that we should be work towards the indian ocean be an ocean of peace , not an ocean of conflict between rival power .