Speaker ' s Statement before we proceed to question , I regret to inform the House of the death of former Member Lord McAvoy . Tommy represent his home town of Rutherglen from 1987 until he receive his peerage in 2010 . he be a highly respect colleague and the long serve Government Whip of recent time , with more than 13 year of service . he will be sadly miss . the thought of the whole House be with his family and friend . oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — apprenticeship : Occupation Range what step her Department be take to help increase the number of occupation for which apprenticeship be available . what step her Department be take to help increase the number of occupation for which apprenticeship be available . I join you in your comment , Mr Speaker . my thought be with the family of Tommy McAvoy . thank to this Conservative Government , nearly 70 % of all occupation be accessible via an apprenticeship . that be a far great reach than country admire for their technical education such as Germany and Switzerland . I be sure that many member join the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and more than 60 ministerial colleague out and about during National Apprenticeship Week . I be delighted to join Harry , Chloe and other EDF Energy apprentice off the coast of Blyth , as well as apprentice who be launch exciting career at J . p . Morgan in the City . apprenticeship be the route to a successful career , no matter where apprentice live or what they want to do . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . last month , the Prime Minister visit the Harrogate Bus Company to view the new fleet of electric bus and to meet the company ' s apprentice . could my right hon . friend detail how the Government will ensure that new apprenticeship route be available in fast develop sector of the economy such as digitisation and artificial intelligence , or the sector that will deliver our decarbonisation pledge , such as those new zero - emission bus in Harrogate and Knaresborough ? I thank my hon . friend for his support at the recent parliamentary apprenticeship fair . importantly , our apprenticeship programme be future focused . it include a new battery manufacture technician apprenticeship , which will benefit electric bus , and other include charge point installation and electric vehicle maintenance . whether through t - level , high technical qualification or apprenticeship , there be more training opportunity in industry of the future than ever before , in everything from AI to net zero . I be most grateful to my right hon . friend for those answer . progress be be make , though the feedback that I be receive be that the current math and english functional skill requirement be an obstacle to a wide range of employer take on apprentice . to remove that barrier , will my right hon . friend consider embed English and math element into the apprenticeship standard , so that they be relevant to the job role and employer can be confident that apprentice be acquire the skill that they need to succeed ? the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education work closely with employer to ensure that all essential skill , include English , math and digital , be embed into apprenticeship standard , and it will continue to do so . we be also increase funding by 50 % to help more apprentice achieve up to a level 2 english or math qualification alongside their apprenticeship if they do not already hold one , to help they get on in work and in life . as someone who start his work life with on - the - job training at International Computers Limited — a company that be now part of Fujitsu , but we will not mention that name in this House — I very much support apprenticeship , particularly at the high and advanced level that be require for occupation in information technology . what be the Secretary of State do to address the worrying fall in the number of apprenticeship start , particularly to get kid into high and advanced level apprenticeship ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will be delighted to learn that apprenticeship start be up by 3 % so far this year . that be because apprenticeship be back by record investment of £ 2 . 7 billion . never before have a government invest so much into high - quality apprenticeship and achieve so much in spread opportunity across the country . like the questioner and the Secretary of State , I be very keen to increase the number of occupation . two category have perhaps not be consider . what discussion have she have with the Department of Enterprise , Trade and Investment back home to ensure opportunity for new apprenticeship in farming and fishing ? the hon . Gentleman put his finger on a very important point . we work with employer in farming and fishing , and we have a number of apprenticeship standard across those industry . we be always happy to work with any industry that see an opportunity for more apprentice to be train in their industry . order . before I call the second question , Mr Speaker would like I to convey to the House his apology for his unavoidable absence from question this afternoon as he have to attend the Commonwealth service in Westminster Abbey , which be about to start at any minute now . maintain Schools Funding what assessment her Department have make of the impact of funding decision on maintain school since 2010 . in 2010 - 11 , school funding be £ 35 billion . next year , it will be £ 59 . 6 billion . that be the high ever level in real term per pupil . recent figure show that the bad impact school in Luton North have endure more than £ 2 million of real - term cut since 2010 . there be school roof with hole in , bucket scatter across corridor collect rainwater , and entire building hold up by scaffold . those be the define image of 14 year of Conservative Government , 14 year of budget cut and teaching staff expect to do more with less . we need change . child in Luton North deserve well . if the Minister agree , why will he not give child what they deserve ? on the condition of school building , the hon . Lady will know that there be £ 1 . 8 billion - worth of capital for maintain and improve school building . on the broad question about school funding , she might have be allude — I be look for some visual recognition — to figure put together by the National Education Union . if so , I have to tell she that we believe those figure to be flawed in multiple respect , include in assumption they make about the money and the number of child in school in previous year . I hope she will join I in celebrate the record resourcing rightly go in to educate child . I welcome the record real - term funding flow into our school , but will my right hon . friend join I in look very carefully at the case for extend funding for tutoring ? it have raise attainment , in particular for the most disadvantaged , in many of our school , and be see as a great success story . when it be introduce , it be intend to be a long - term intervention . may I urge the Minister to continue to look at that and ensure we find money , in addition to the pupil premium , to support that noble aim ? I absolutely agree that tutoring be important in multiple context . in particular , in the year since the pandemic it have play an essential part . I will add that tutoring by undergraduate can help to introduce a wide range of people to the potential of a career in teaching . I want tutor to continue . as my hon . friend rightly mention , part of the function of the pupil premium be to make such intervention and it can be spend on they . a teacher in Frome recently reach out and tell I that too few pupil be successful in their education , health and care plan application . without a plan and the accompany support for child ' s life chance , they be diminish . can the Minister reassure my constituent that the Government ' s plan to reform the EHCP will still ensure that child receive care that be personalise to their need and not a one - size - fit - all approach to cut cost ? I absolutely and wholeheartedly agree with the hon . Lady on the central importance of that support and how vital it be to have it . there be , of course , many more ehcp than there be statement under the old system , with more child receive support . she will understand that I can not comment on the individual case she mention , but I will mention the special educational need and disability and alternative provision improvement plan that we have in place . I welcome the substantial additional funding that have be give to maintain nursery school in my constituency , but do the Minister agree that it be vital for we to continue to increase funding for all Barnet ' s school ? as ever , my right hon . friend be a great champion and advocate for Barnet ' s school and , indeed , for maintained nursery school , which , as she say , play a unique role in our system in carry out those particular function . I call the shadow Minister . last year the National Audit Office report that 700 , 000 child be be teach in school need major rebuilding work . on top of the problem cause by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , construction issue be emerge daily with block and beam flooring , high - alumina cement and asbestos — all long past their shelf life — up in North Tyneside and down to Luton and beyond . fourteen year of conservative government have leave child learn under prop and in portacabin and shed . give that this Government ' s plan seem to be to leave it for the next Labour Government to sort out those problem , can the Minister at least inform we of the late estimate of the total school repair bill ? keep our school estate in the right condition for optimally educate child be of the foremost importance . since 2015 we have allocate £ 15 billion to keep school safe and operational . I pay tribute to everyone who have be involve in the most recent RAAC issue , include the school and pupil who deal with it and my colleague who help to ensure that we reach this point . all school have be tell what will happen next : either they will receive a remediation grant , or they will be part of the school rebuilding programme . SEND : support what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . our SEND and alternative provision improvement plan , publish last March , include the development of new national standard to improve provision in mainstream setting for child with special educational need . as for child require special school place , last week we announce funding for an additional wave of 15 special free school , which come on top of the 108 that we have open since 2010 and the 77 whose opening have be approve . I visit school in my constituency virtually every week , and I see more and more of they struggle financially , and in term of staff , with the number of SEND pupil . moreover , too many staff member be have to go out and fetch child to bring they to school in the morning , and need to have social worker base in their school . this be not about individual school ; it be a systemic problem . what be the Government do about it ? in Cambridgeshire , there have be a 27 % increase in funding per head for special educational need since 2021 - 22 and a special free school be in the pipeline , along with two local authority special competition free school . Cambridgeshire be also part of our safety valve programme , which help authority to run a sustainable special educational need system . I wonder whether my hon . friend might be able to help my constituent Ella Wakley , who be disabled and travel to her college on the bus , but her blue badge do not allow free transport for she and her assistant until 9 . 30 am , which be a little late for the start of the school day . I do not know the specific of the case that my hon . friend raise , but if she write to I , I will happily look at it . I call the shadow Minister . high - quality early year education can be transformational for child with special educational need , help to ensure that they be identify and support at the most important time for their development , but last year few than one in five local authority in England report have enough childcare place for disabled child . that be a shameful failure . be the Minister confident that family with a disabled child will be able to access the childcare to which they be entitle from April ? we be do two thing in this regard . first , we be review the special educational need inclusion fund as we roll out the new entitlement to ensure that it be work appropriately . secondly , we have provide a contractor . local authority have a statutory duty to provide place for all child , include those with special educational need , and the contractor will work with local authority to ensure that be do . PSHE Curriculum : Economic Education if she will issue statutory guidance on teach economic education in school as part of the PSHE curriculum . it be essential that young people be equip to make important financial decision later in life . my hon . friend will recall our curriculum reform , and the national curriculum for mathematic and secondary citizenship equip pupil with the essential knowledge , understanding and practical skill need to manage their money . the Minister be absolutely right to suggest that good financial education help people to avoid debt and poverty , and to build up a saving cushion for a rainy day . prevention be undoubtedly well than cure , yet while statutory guidance ensure that student learn about threat such as drug or unplanned pregnancy , money and finance be more optional . should they not be take as seriously as everything else ? I agree with my hon . friend . there be relevant content in different part of the curriculum , not only in mathematic , which be statutory throughout key stage 1 to 4 , but at secondary level in citizenship . further element such as computing be particularly relevant to online fraud . in relationship , sex and health education , some aspect of fraud be cover , as be gamble , but I absolutely agree that it be important to keep these thing under review . student Cost of Living Support : devolve administration what recent discussion she have have with her counterpart in the devolved administration on the potential merit of provide additional financial support to student in the context of increase in the cost of living . the hon . Gentleman will know that high education be a devolved matter and that each Administration be responsible for determine the student finance arrangement that apply to student eligible for funding . new datum reveal that in most area of England , state school pupil who have receive free school meal have less than a one in four chance of enter high education . one reason for that be that poor student decide not to pursue that path because of the prospect of be saddle with huge debt , which take decade to clear . do the Government believe that they should follow the Scottish Government ' s example and abolish tuition fee , so that education can be make accessible to all ? this Government believe that we need to be fair not only to student but to taxpayer . it be worth note that , in England , those from disadvantaged background be 74 % more likely to go to university than they be in 2010 . we have put together a substantial package to help student with the cost of living , include a £ 286 million welfare support fund , which we give to the Office for student to ensure that student with difficulty be help . I call the shadow Minister . follow last year ' s 2 . 8 % increase , the Government have announce a paltry 2 . 5 % increase in maintenance loan this September . with a compound inflation rate of 15 % , that amount to a massive real - term cut . meanwhile , the Welsh Government have announce a 3 . 7 % increase . even in Scotland , there will be a £ 2 , 500 special support loan for all student . across the country , student be be force into work multiple job to try to make end meet . what have this Government get against student ? I be proud that we have a record number of student go to university . I have already mention the fact that the disadvantaged be 74 % more likely to go to university than they be before . I will tell the hon . Gentleman what we be do to help student : we have a £ 286 million welfare fund that we give to the ofs ; we have increase loan by 2 . 8 % ; we have freeze tuition fee ; family across the country have be give , on average , £ 3 , 700 to help with energy bill and other bill ; we have give hundred of million of pound to the household support fund to support all family ; student know that they can have their loan reassess if their family income fall by 15 % ; and finally , we have introduce degree apprenticeship so that student do not need to take out a loan but can earn while they learn and get a good , skilled job at the end . teacher and School Support Staff : Morale whether she be take step to help improve the morale of teacher and school support staff . support teacher wellbee be crucial to our commitment to a supportive culture in school , and for encourage teacher retention . that be why we co - create the education staff wellbee charter with the education sector , and we have invest over £ 1 million in school leader mental health and wellbeing support . be the truth not that retention be down , recruitment be down and early retirement be up ? what be the Minister go to do to boost the morale of teacher ? they say to I , " Wouldn ' t it be wonderful to have a Cabinet who have be through a state sector education and send their child to state school ? " I think the hon . Gentleman need to do some research before he start ask question in Parliament . on recruitment and retention , I join he in stress the importance of retention , which we be absolutely focused on , include through our workload programme . we have a good set of scholarship and bursary for encourage entry and a range of different route into teaching to get the full range of talent that can benefit our child and young people . would my right hon . friend agree that good and enthusiastic teacher be vital to ensure that we have good , successful school and pupil ? what more can be do to assist school with discipline and truancy issue , because it would obviously help teacher ' morale if they could have some more support ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of brilliant teacher — I think he might have some personal experience of that . he be also right about the central importance of behaviour . in relation to retention , we hear back in survey that we need to improve far on this . this be one of the reason that we have the network of behaviour hub , so that school can learn one from another about what work well . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . Morale among teacher and support staff be affect by their pay and working condition , and now the teacher be be threaten with minimum service level , which would limit their fundamental right to strike . surely the Minister can recognise that this course of action will lower morale far and ultimately impact the recruitment and retention of teaching staff . nobody be talk about take away the right to strike . all that we be seek to do be balance that right , which we absolutely recognise and protect , with the right of a child to have an education . SEN place : Essex what step she be take to increase the provision of special educational need place in Essex . I be pleased to inform the House that two new special school open in Essex last year , with another in the pipeline . we have also provide £ 26 million of capital funding to Essex over the last two year to create more place for child with special educational need or who require alternative provision . last July , stand here , I launch the campaign for a new special need school in south Essex . in February this year , work closely with Essex County Council , which I commend for its effort , we be able to announce a consultation to build a brand - new special need school in Rayleigh for 100 - plus pupil — a through - school for year 3 to 18 — to open in the 2025 - 26 academic year . it have go down very well locally , but the one concern be that at the moment it be 100 - plus pupil and , give the great demand for place , a lot of people would prefer something near 200 . be there any way , perhaps with a little help from the Department , that we might be able to achieve that too ? my right hon . friend be run an excellent campaign and we be impressed with the speed with which Essex have move to consultation . I can not pre - empt the Department ' s decision , but what we have hear so far suggest that a very strong case will be put to the Department . we be also about to allocate the remain £ 900 million of capital funding for special educational need school , from which Essex will of course benefit . Ofsted Ratings what progress her Department have make on ensure that more school achieve good and outstanding rating by Ofsted . under the last Labour Government , only 68 % of school be rate good or outstanding , let down a generation of child . thank to this Conservative Government , that number now stand at nearly 90 % . in the last year alone , 214 , 000 more child now attend good or outstanding school , and I be delighted that this now include the Lord Derby Academy in Knowsley , which I visit last week . our plan to give every child a world - class education be work . labour have no plan . remember that it have twice stand on a manifesto to abolish Ofsted . it be clear that every time labour get into power , child ' s education suffer . nine out of 10 of the school in my constituency be good or outstanding , reflect this Government ' s commitment to high standard and the incredible hard work of the staff and the school leadership , but special school have struggle to achieve the same in my constituency . how be my right hon . friend help they to get to where we want they to be , where they can all be good or outstanding ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right that Basingstoke ' s school have be transform over the past decade , up from just 52 % rate good or outstanding under Labour . we have recently bring in two of our strong specialist multi - academy trust to drive improvement in special school . Solent Academies Trust be now responsible for Dove House School , and Chiltern Way Academy Trust will shortly be take over three local underperforming special and alternative provision school , two of which will receive significant capital investment from the Department to support the education of vulnerable child . Apprenticeship Levy : trend what assessment she have make of trend in the number of level 2 and 3 apprenticeship start since the apprenticeship levy be introduce . sixty - five per cent of all apprenticeship start so far this year have be at level 2 and 3 , with level 3 remain the most popular level , account for 43 % of all start . over 360 apprenticeship standard be at level 2 and 3 , cover more than half of all apprenticeship . I can understand why the Minister do not refer to the trend , because he know that level 2 apprenticeship be way down . the Government ' s reform have see level 2 apprenticeship start fall by two third since 2012 - 13 , and the number of people employ on an apprenticeship with a small and medium - sized enterprise have fall by 49 % since the levy ' s introduction . the Minister talk powerfully about apprenticeship , but why do he think that young people be now half as likely to be on an SME apprenticeship than they be when the levy be introduce ? I hugely respect the hon . Gentleman . I know he be a bruiser , but I have be look forward to his question . I think he would celebrate the 13 , 000 apprentice in Chesterfield since May 2010 , the 11 , 270 apprentice at level 2 and 3 , or the £ 19 . 5 million investment in Chesterfield College . [ Official Report , 25 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 11mc . ] ( Correction ) if I be he , I would be urge his party to stop its plan to destroy the apprenticeship levy , which would halve the number of apprenticeship start overall . it would be back to square one . I call the shadow Minister . it be not just that level 2 and 3 apprenticeship start have plummet by over 50 % since the levy be introduce , but that 16 to 18 - year - old apprenticeship start be down by 41 % . research by the Sutton Trust and the London School of Economics far show that , by 2020 , the proportion of apprenticeship start by those from poor background have drop significantly . opportunity for all our young people to earn and learn expand every year under Labour . be it not now painfully clear that the big barrier to opportunity be this Tory Government ? as always , Labour Front Benchers be obsess with quantity over quality . we have transform the quality of apprenticeship . seventy per cent of occupation be cover by over 680 apprenticeship standard . [ Official Report , 25 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 11mc . ] ( Correction ) there have be a 6 % increase since this time last year in the number of under - 19 start , and overall start be up by 3 % over the same period . the crucial thing be achievement , which be up by 22 % . female STEM start be up by 7 . 5 % , start by people with disability be up by 6 . 3 % , and start by people from ethnic minority be up to 15 . 4 % of start , compare with 10 . 6 % in 2010 . not only be we focus on quality over quantity ; we be improve the number of start and achievement too . Childcare Provision what step she be take to increase childcare provision . we be remove one of the big barrier for work parent by vastly increase the amount of free childcare that work family can access . by 2027 - 28 , we expect to spend more than £ 8 billion every year on free hour in early education , double what we be spend now , to help work family with their childcare cost . my constituent Diane Bennett , who run a small group of very popular local nursery , tell I how appreciative she be of the Government ' s plan for childcare and early education , particularly the £ 500 million of additional funding that have be secure . clearly , as she and other nursery provider look ahead , she be concerned that , although the Government have a clear plan , there be no clear plan come from the opposition . can my hon . friend set her mind at rest ? my hon . friend be right . last week the Chancellor announce that we will be increase rate until the end of 2027 for early year provider , which be something they have ask for . I can not give my hon . friend any reassurance about Labour ' s plan , because it have no plan . the shadow Secretary of State say that childcare be her top priority , yet she have no plan for it . what do that say ? parent should be very worried about Labour get into power , both for the childcare on which they rely and for every other area of education . family right across my constituency be find it increasingly hard to access affordable childcare locally . from speak to two provider last week , it be clear to I that the current level and structure of free hour funding , even with the Government ' s recent announcement , be not go to go far enough to allow these provider to expand , give the capacity and staffing cost that would entail . what reassurance can the Minister offer family in my area that , finally , the Government be go to get on top of the childcare crisis we be face and make sure that family in my constituency will not have to go without ? we set our rate base on a survey of more than 9 , 000 provider , in order to get those right . last year we see a 13 , 000 increase in the number of staff in the sector and a 15 , 000 increase in the number of place . we work with every local authority to make sure that they have sufficient place , and I be confident that the hon . Gentleman ' s area will have that too . Gloucestershire County Council care about our childcare business and listen to my call to make sure that monthly payment be go to childminder . as we have hear , the Chancellor be put in another slug of money — £ 500 million — but local childminder be tell I that thing such as the propose date of payment mean that they be still out of pocket and still can not pay their staff . therefore , all the work be not be feel on the ground . will the Minister meet GCC and I to iron out some of these mechanical issue at local authority level , so that everybody can benefit from what the Government be do ? I thank my hon . friend for continue to champion this sector . she be absolutely right about the importance of pay on a monthly basis , which we encourage all local authority to do . we will be say more about that in the come week , and I will be happy to meet she to discuss this far . the Minister will be aware that private equity firm have be cause great damage in other part of the education sector , such as child ' s home and special school , but we be now start to see this in childcare . Oakley Capital have acquire Lilliput nursery in Hersham and Elmbridge , and have hike up price by a staggering 25 % ; that be an additional £ 365 per child per month , which parent simply can not afford . do he agree that it be quite wrong for private equity firm to be make these eye - water profit on the back of hard - work parent ? what be he go to do to stop this happening ? the hon . Lady be right to raise the issue of profiteer that we have see in some area of child ' s care and social care . we will be set out some step that we will be take on that shortly . I do not know the specific of the case she have just reference , but , again , if she write to I , I will be happy to look at it . Skelton Primary School : Cleveland what progress her Department have make on rebuild Skelton Primary School in Cleveland . Skelton Primary School be announce in the second round of the school rebuilding programme in July 2021 . it be the second school in a batch be deliver by the contractor Tilbury Douglas . we therefore expect construction work on this complete new build to begin in late summer and complete next year . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer , which be reassure news , because Skelton Primary be a very good school but it be in need of a comprehensive rebuild . the headteacher , Mrs Walker , work through last summer in the expectation that the rebuild could begin as soon as this Easter , but that have not happen , because the builder come back say that more money be require . will my right hon . friend assure I that that date of the end of the summer be now fix ? will it be possible for I to meet the civil service team in charge to discuss this with they far ? I acknowledge all that my right hon . Friend say . I can reassure he that the scope of work , include all funding commit , have be confirm on this new build . however , of course , if it would be helpful to have a meeting , I would be happy to do this . degree - level apprenticeship : take - up what step her Department be take to encourage take - up of degree - level apprenticeship . I note that the Labour Front Benchers do not mention the 222 , 320 start on degree apprenticeship since their introduction in 2014 - 15 . there be now more than 170 employer - design degree - level apprenticeship available , include in occupation such as doctor , space engineer and midwife . we be spend an additional £ 40 million in the next two year to support provider to promote degree apprenticeship . business in my constituency regularly tell I that they much prefer apprentice and those who have take degree - level apprenticeship to traditional graduate . that come up time and again in a recent engagement event I hold with Buckinghamshire Business First at Ercol in Princes Risborough . will my right hon . friend tell I what more the Government be go to do to send a clear signal to all pupil across the whole country that degree - level apprenticeship be out there , they should sign up for they and they will have fantastic career ahead of they ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he be a champion of the automotive and motorsport industry in his constituency . he will be pleased to know that we now have UCAS for apprenticeship , which will transform the apprenticeship scheme when student apply for university or apprenticeship . the apprenticeship skill and knowledge network go to thousand of school , interact with many hundred of thousand of student . as I mention , we be spend £ 40 million to promote degree apprenticeship among provider . we have strengthen legislation to ensure that school do more to promote apprenticeship and technical and vocational education . apprenticeship opportunity : school what step she be take to ensure school pupil be inform about apprenticeship opportunity . my hon . friend be a champion of fe and skill — he have ask a lot of question about the subject over the past month . we want apprenticeship to be part of the career conversation in every school . we have strengthen the law so that school must offer pupil at least six education and training provider encounter . we have invest £ 3 . 2 million in the apprenticeship skill and knowledge network , which reach over 2 , 300 school and college in 2022 - 23 . Vandyke Upper School in Leighton Buzzard , which I visit last week , tell every student about apprenticeship and have an excellent apprenticeship ambassador . as the Minister will know , sadly not every school do this . Most teacher have be to university and they may not know about apprenticeship , so what can we do to ensure that every school tell every student about apprenticeship , as Vandyke Upper School do , because they can be life - transform for the right student ? my hon . friend speak a lot of wisdom . I congratulate Vandyke Upper School on its work . I have be to apprenticeship fair and career day at the Oasis Academy in Brislington . huge amount of work be go on with the Careers & Enterprise Company and the apprenticeship ambassador network , to ensure that there be a network member engage at every secondary school and college . I have mention some of the other thing we be do to promote career and apprenticeship in all our school . SEND pupil : Post - college Opportunities what step she be take to promote post - college opportunity to pupil with SEND . we know that with the right preparation and support the overwhelming majority of young people with SEND be capable of sustained and pay employment . the National Careers Service offer young people with SEND age 19 to 24 tailor support from career adviser . we be invest £ 80 million until 2025 to build capacity and support an internship programme . we have also launch a mentoring pilot for disabled apprentice . Homefield College , base in Mountsorrel and Sileby in my constituency , be a community - base independent specialist college that offer education , training and independent living skill for people with learn disability and communication difficulty . what step be be take by the Department to promote and support such excellent fe college , and to help create opportunity for work experience , life skill and development for student , so that they may go on to live happy and fulfilling life as an integral part of their local community ? I be pleased to visit Loughborough not so long ago with my hon . friend . she be passionate about fe and skill . I know Homefield College well ; it be a brilliant college and I be glad it be recently allocate £ 95 , 000 for capital spend . we have the £ 80 million support internship scheme for those with special educational need ; an FE bursary scheme for special need teacher ; specialist National Careers Service advice for young people ; and the SEND code of practice to prepare young people for adulthood . [ Official Report , 25 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 12mc . ] ( correction ) we be do everything possible to support fe for those with special educational need , to ensure that they get on the ladder of opportunity . teaching and Learning in Schools what step her Department be take to help improve teaching and learn in school . great teaching be truly transformational in child ' s life . thank to our brilliant teacher , and the focus on high standard in the curriculum , attendance and behaviour , nine and 10 - year - old in England be now the fourth good in the world for read . we have see how child in english school be the good reader in the western world thank to this Government . in Uxbridge and South Ruislip , we see how that work be be translate into outstanding or good ofsted rating . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate the team at Ruislip High School and the child ' s service team at Hillingdon Council on their recent outstanding rating , and will he pledge to work with I to ensure that child across Uxbridge and South Ruislip have the good possible education ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Ruislip High School and Hillingdon Council ' s child ' s service team . nearly 90 % of school in Uxbridge and South Ruislip be now rate good or outstanding by Ofsted , up from under 70 % in 2010 , follow the great work of teacher and our relentless focus on improve school standard . SEND : high - quality Childcare what step she be take to help ensure the availability of high - quality childcare for child with special educational need and disability . to ensure high - quality childcare for child with special educational need , we be invest hundred of million of pound to increase hourly funding rate and the amount of dedicated additional SEND funding , such as the disability access fund , for all eligible child , and fund the training of early year special educational need co - ordinator . to the surprise of no one who look at what the Government be propose , my inbox , like those of many other mp , be full of email from parent who can not get the 15 free hour in April without pay for a massive hike in their fee . one group in particular that be struggle be parent of child with special educational need or a disability . that be entirely predictable , because the Government ' s own impact assessment say explicitly that change the ratio could have a " negative impact " on the provision of place for child with special educational need . the Minister stand at the Dispatch Box on 22 January and pledge to I that every parent who want the 15 free hour for their eligible two - year - old would be able to get a place . can he restate that pledge today explicitly for parent of child who have special educational need , and pledge that they will not have to pay a high fee — yes or no ? I appreciate that it must be very frustrating for the hon . Lady , who genuinely care about childcare , to be in a party that can not be bother to come up with a plan for it and have have to ask someone else to write it one because it can not think of one . on her specific issue , as I say , we be work with every local authority to ensure that they have the place that they need for all child . autism : initial teacher train whether her Department be take step to ensure that initial teacher training course include early identification of autism . the Department for Education recently review the mandatory initial teacher train core content framework , alongside the early career framework . particular attention be give to the need of trainee and early - career teacher when support pupil with special educational need . that be a very useful response , for which I be very grateful . I recently bring my ten - minute rule Bill to the House , which be specifically about mandate autism training in the initial teacher training framework , because we all know that early identification be vital . if education staff all have autism training right from the start , we could put in place a system so that autistic child receive support very early on in their school career . will the Minister assure I of the step that he have take to include autism training specifically in initial teacher training , and meet I again to discuss support my ten - minute rule Bill ? my hon . friend be run a strong campaign . from September 2025 , initial teacher training and the early career framework will contain significantly more content on support pupil with special educational need , include autistic pupil . we have commit £ 12 million to the universal SEND services programme , which have so far give training to more than 135 , 000 professional regard autism awareness , but I be happy to meet my hon . friend again . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . we be deliver the large ever expansion of childcare in England ' s history , which begin roll out in just three week ' time , from 1 April . we do it before when we more than double the entitlement there have be under the previous Labour Government , and I be delighted to update the House that our late projection show that more than 150 , 000 new fund place will be secure by early April . we expect that number to grow in the month ahead , save parent more than £ 550 million in childcare cost . April be just the first phase . from September , parent with child from the age of nine month until they start school will be able to benefit from that support . only the Conservatives have a plan that hard - work parent can rely on as they grow their family . labour have no plan , so why do it not support our to give family the certainty they deserve ? I recently visit Fairfield Spencer Academy in my Broxtowe constituency , where I meet Craig Jones , who be do good work with the Junior Adventures Group , a lead provider of school - age childcare . during my visit , I observe staff provide crucial support to child beyond regular school hour . however , it be evident that that level of support be not consistent around the country , and that fund for the school - age childcare sector need reform . I welcome the £ 289 million for the wraparound care sector , but will my right hon . friend the Secretary of State commit to introduce a universal funding model link to parent earning , similar to that for the early year , to ensure provider remain affordable and sustainable ? we be make wraparound childcare available for all parent who need it , and we be support hard - work parent to balance have a family and a successful career . our £ 289 million investment will help school develop exciting programme before and after school , which will provide more flexibility for work parent . I be sure the Minister for Children , Families and Wellbeing , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , will be happy to meet my hon . friend to keep he update on progress . neither the Secretary of State nor any Treasury Minister meet representative of the early year sector in the month before last year ' s Budget announcement on childcare . now , with just three week to go , parent , provider and even the Government ' s own civil servant be sound the alarm . More than seven in 10 provider say they will not offer additional place and a quarter say they be likely to close within a year . will the Secretary of State now guarantee that all parent will be able to access the childcare place that she promise ? absolutely ; I set that out in my topical statement . we be work with every local authority to ensure the place be available . I be glad the hon . Lady mention childcare , because it be yet another policy area that the Labour party have no plan for . we be deliver the large expansion of childcare in history so that work parent of child from the age of nine month to the start of school will get 30 hour of childcare a week . the real question be : what be Labour ' s plan ? nobody know , because it do not have one . it be clear that the Conservatives be the only party with a plan for work parent . there be one way we can find out what the public think : call a general election . last week , we hear another promise from the Chancellor for a new funding mechanism for early year provider . there be talk of hundred of million of pound more for the sector , but strangely no news about where the promise £ 500 million will actually come from — there be nothing at all in the Budget document . will the Secretary of State tell we today where the money be come from , or be this yet another reckless , unfunded pledge without a plan from the Conservatives ? there would be no childcare on the table if the Labour party be in charge , so I urge all work parent to support the conservative party , which have a plan for they . like everything we do , the £ 500 million will be fully fund . it secure the rate in the future so that businesse up and down the country have the confidence to invest . the Labour party have absolutely no plan for childcare and for support work parent in this country . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have rightly champion childcare and early education . I congratulate she on the £ 500 million in this year ' s Budget , on top of the billion commit last year to the sector — indicate dissent . it be in the Red Book . I be happy to meet the hon . Lady to show she where it be . I urge the Secretary of State to keep press on some of the Education Committee ' s other recommendation , include on extend family hub , remove rate and vat from childcare provider , and reform tax - free childcare to drive take - up . this Conservative Government be back this country ' s brilliant childcare provider as we roll out our historic childcare offer . as my hon . friend have point out , that be on top of the roll - out of universal service in family hub . to give certainty to the early year sector , we have confirm that average funding rate will increase over the next two financial year — as he state , the detail be in the Red Book — give they the confidence to invest and expand . only the Conservatives have a plan for hard - work parent . I call the SNP spokesman . academic independence be central to a function democracy , so in light of the false accusation level at an academic on the board of UK Research and Innovation by the Secretary of State ' s colleague , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , and her subsequent apology , what action be the Secretary of State take to assure academic that they remain free to make legitimate comment on issue of concern ? of course , academic independence and the ability to speak freely be very important — they be thing that we hold dear , and that we must protect at all cost within our university and academic institution . that be why we pass the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , and it be why there be a free speech director in the Office for Students , who have take up that post and will work to ensure we do whatever we can to protect those thing in our country . I have four grammar school in my constituency , which provide an important and very popular element of a diverse education system . therefore , will the Minister please commit today to continue her support of grammar school , both now and in the future ? I support all great school in our diverse school system , include strong grammar school . I continue to encourage grammar school to increase access for disadvantaged pupil , which can help so much with social mobility . Acre Rigg Infant School in Peterlee be give a 25 - year life expectancy when it be build in 1950 . it have asbestos in every wall and a metal structure make from recycled world war two aircraft . Seaham Trinity Primary School have lift floor , rise damp , black mould cause by a faulty roof , leak pipe and poor screeding . it be a £ 5 . 3 million school that be build in 2008 by Surgo . can the Schools Minister explain to parent how their child be suppose to flourish and prosper in such an inadequate educational environment ? in the 2021 spending review , we commit £ 19 billion for school capital over the three year . I do not know offhand the specific of the school that the hon . Gentleman have mention , but I would of course be very happy to meet he to hear further detail . I recently hold my third annual skill and apprenticeship fair at the iconic Pioneer House Kirklees College building in Dewsbury . will my right hon . friend visit the college and meet some of the apprentice , employer and college staff who help make that event a great success ? I would be absolutely delighted to visit Kirklees College , and I congratulate my hon . friend on his apprenticeship fair . I note that the college have a great record on apprenticeship achievement , and that 970 apprentice have start their future . overall at Kirklees since 2010 , there have be something like 12 , 300 apprenticeship start in my hon . friend ' s constituency . an estimate 6 , 000 child in England be attend illegal or unregistered school that provide limited or no appropriate education , often in an unsafe environment . do the Minister agree that while effort to introduce a home education register to keep track of child who be outside a school setting be welcome , more legislation be need to close the loophole exploit by proprietor of illegal school and ensure that child be keep safe and educate appropriately ? the hon . Gentleman will , of course , know of our plan and our support for the private Member ' s Bill on that subject . he and I use to serve together on the Education Committee back in the day ; these be issue that have be long stand , include under previous government . from the school White Paper , he will also know of the other thing we have commit to do when legislative time allow . I recently have the pleasure of visit Berrynarbor primary school , where I discuss the challenge that rurality impose on that school and how hard its staff have work to overcome those challenge . what step be the Department take to support rural primary school , which often have a vast catchment area and difficult building ? I recognise what my hon . Friend say about rurality . of course , the lump sum element in the funding formula be important for small school . we have more than double the national funding formula sparsity funding in three year , with £ 6 . 5 million for Devon in 2024 - 25 . we be also invest to improve the condition of school building , and Devon County Council receive an annual capital allocation of £ 3 . 5 million this year . minister will be aware that four school in North Tyneside close just over a month ago because of a structural problem not relate to RAAC . the 1 , 700 pupil have be relocate , thank to the council and to the school work together . can the Minister assure I that funding will be make available either to rebuild or to restructure the school as soon as it be need ? yes , and I be aware that the hon . Lady have meet my noble Friend Baroness Barran . inspection by structural engineer be ongoing , as I think the hon . Lady will know , but the early indication be that this be a historical and isolated issue about the way the school be build . we continue to work with the local authority and with the school , and I would of course be happy — if appropriate , and if it would help — to meet she in due course . about 10 year ago , follow the Government ' s reform , the number of adoption in England double , but 10 year on , they have halve . why ? my hon . friend raise a very important point . we be take a number of action to increase the number of people who adopt and foster , and to support kinship care as well , but I would be happy to discuss this matter with he far . many of the child with special educational need , mental health challenge and childhood trauma who be not in school in York be not able to access their education because of insufficient estate and placement , and because of the environment and specialist personnel . what be the Government do to ensure that every area have a workforce plan and an estate plan , and the funding to match ? through our special educational need and disability and alternative provision improvement plan we be take a whole range of action . that have include increase the number of special school place by more than 60 , 000 since this government come to power , as well as train a lot more special educational need co - ordinator . headteacher in Denbighshire , Flintshire and Conwy have recently write to all parent about the dire financial situation face their school . my understanding be that school in England be receive the high funding ever per pupil in real term . will my right hon . friend confirm that and outline what discussion he have have with the Welsh Government to ensure school in Wales also see the benefit of that funding ? I regret that , as education be a devolved matter , the Labour party be in charge of education in Wales . it really sadden I to hear of child in my hon . friend ' s constituency suffer from its mismanagement of that system , despite the great work of brilliant and inspiring teacher in Wales . he be absolutely right that in England , under this government , funding be at a record level . meanwhile , in Wales , I be sad to say that education standard be not only the low in the UK , but lower than the OECD average . I be afraid it be clear that every time labour get into power , child ' s education suffer . the Secretary of State love plan . what be her plan to reinvigorate and change the course of Ofsted ? I be delighted to attend the Association of School and College Leaders conference alongside Sir Martyn Oliver , who announce the Big Listen , which be part of make sure that we get the cultural reform require . I be concern by report that some teacher and headteacher feel that they be not listen to or be treat in a dismissive or rude manner . I hope everybody will engage fully with the Big Listen , because I think we need to make sure that Ofsted be respectful , and treat our service , and our teacher and headteacher , with respect . at Cambridge University , a barbaric vandal wear a £ 1 , 000 Mulberry backpack be so full of hate for Jews that she feel Lord Balfour ' s letter of 1917 give she the moral superiority to destroy a valuable and historic painting of he . this shine a light on the pernicious atmosphere face by jewish student at university across the country , with call for " zionist off our campus " now shamefully normalise , and " Zionists " really mean Jews . what step do my right hon . friend propose to take to convey to university head that they have a legal and a moral obligation to stamp out antisemitism ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question . Arthur Balfour be a great man and identify the need for a homeland for british Jews . that be why antisemite do not like he and be slash his picture . I and the Secretary of State be spend a lot of time with jewish student group . I have be to Leeds University to spend time with jewish student , because the chaplain there be attack , and we be work with Universities UK . we have announce a £ 7 million package to give to jewish student group , include the University jewish Chaplaincy , to try to stop antisemitism on campus . [ Official Report , 25 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 12mc . ] ( correction ) we be also develop a quality seal that we will ask university to adopt , so that they deal properly with antisemitic incident . last week , I and the Secretary of State have a meeting with the Office for Students , to make clear to the regulator that antisemitism across our university be not acceptable . rise — rise — order . I appreciate that two hon . member be rise to ask question , but perhaps they have forget that they have already have that opportunity ; each ask a question early this afternoon . I know the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) get away with two question , but I often make an exception for he due to his longevity in this place . seniority ! it be be suggest to I that I should use the word " seniority " , and that do have a well ring to it — I mean the hon . member for Huddersfield ' s seniority in this place . UK Armed Forces ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence to make a statement on the state of the UK armed force . it be an honour to set out how our outstanding armed force be do incredible work around the world , protect the UK and our ally . that include operate on every single NATO mission , support Ukraine against Putin ' s aggression , and tackle Houthi attack on shipping in the Red sea . we be spend a record amount on defence . that include an extra £ 24 billion in cash term between 2020 and 2025 , which be the large sustained increase since the end of the cold war . the Government fully recognise the grow security threat , which be why we have set out our long term aspiration to invest 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence when fiscal and economic circumstance allow . we be already spend more than 2 % of gdp on defence , exceed our NATO target . we be deliver the capability that our force need , significantly increase spending on defence equipment to £ 288 . 6 billion over the next decade , and introduce a new procurement model to improve acquisition . for the Royal Navy , that include Dreadnought , Astute and AUKUS submarine , as well as fleet solid support ship Type 26 and Type 21 frigate . for the Army , Future Soldier will deliver the large transformation in more than 20 year , re - equip and re - organise to be more deployable and lethal . the RAF will become an increasingly digitally empower force , with the Global Combat Air Programme provide a sixth - generation fighter jet capability , build on that provide by our Typhoons and F - 35 fifth - generation aircraft today . our Defence Command Paper 2023 set out our plan to deliver a credible war fighting force , generate and employ to protect the nation and help it prosper now and in the year to come . we will embody a fully integrate approach to deterrence and defence , include across all domain and across Government , by exploit all lever of state power , and with ally and partner . I pay tribute to HMS Richmond ' s action over the weekend , defend shipping in the Red sea against a large - scale Houthi attack . those be the demand that our armed force face as threat increase . the Defence Secretary owe the public and Parliament an explanation . he say that we be move into " a pre - war world " , and ahead of last week ' s Budget he write to the Chancellor and state that " we must take bold action in your Budget to commit to defence spending increase to 2 . 5 % in 2024 . it would re - establish our leadership in Europe . " but there be a grow gap between the Defence Secretary ' s rhetoric and the reality for our armed force , who be charge with prepare for this new dangerous era . in the Budget there be no new money for defence , nothing new for Ukraine , and nothing for Gaza or the UK ' s operation in the middle east . bad , both the Treasury and the House of Commons Library confirm that the defence budget will be cut by £ 2 . 5 billion in cash term in this next financial year . the 2 . 5 % of GDP , which the Minister refer to , be not mention once in the Treasury Red Book ; the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be in 2010 under a Labour Government . while Putin wage war in Europe , Ministers be war with each other . challenging defence policy in public , the Minister for Security be on tv this morning call for 2 . 5 % now . that be a serious breakdown in collective ministerial responsibility , but I be most concerned about the serious state of the UK armed force . what signal do it send to our adversary when our force have be hollow out and underfunde for the last 14 year ; when the Public Accounts Committee find the large ever fund deficit in the MOD ' s equipment plan ; when the British Army have be cut to its small size since Napoleon ; when force recruitment target have be miss each and every year for 14 year ; and when satisfaction with service life have hit a record low ? I have one simple question for the Minister : where be the plan for well defend Britain ? it be clear that our armed force can not afford another five year of a Conservative Government . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his comment about HMS Richmond . I be sure that we all agree and pay tribute to our Royal Navy personnel , who be there ultimately to defend not only themselves but freedom of navigation for the rest of the world . we should recognise the importance of the role that they be undertake on behalf of our Government . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the funding for next year . to be clear , that will represent a 1 . 8 % increase in real term and not the cut that he suggest . if we spend the money that we expect , it will amount to £ 55 . 6 billion — about 2 . 3 % of GDP , which be traditionally how we measure our spending . that be significantly above the just under 2 . 1 % in 2019 , so it be a significant increase as a percentage of gdp . the right hon . Gentleman also talk about recruitment , which be an important issue . my right hon . friend the Minister for Defence People and Families be do a lot of work on that and , as the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , in January we see the high number of application to the Army in six year . a more positive picture be develop , recognise the importance of the mission . we should not talk down our armed force when we expect people to apply and to want to be recruit into they . I note the range of comment about the 2 . 5 % and want to make several point . the first be that the right hon . Gentleman say that we have not spend that percentage since Labour be in power . well , something extraordinary happen at the end of their time in power : they crash the economy , we have a full - on banking crisis and a letter be leave for our Government say " there be no money . " it be no surprise that we have to take difficult decision , but despite that we have show our commitment to the armed force . when he be Chancellor of the Exchequer , the Prime Minister approve the large ever increase in defence spending since the cold war , and there have be further money since then in the Budget . of course , we be commit to 2 . 5 % when the circumstance allow . for all the right hon . Gentleman ' s bluster , he have not even commit to match our current spending on defence , let alone 2 . 5 % ; we challenge he on that at Defence oral and he be not able to give any commitment whatever to spending . the public know where we stand : 2 . 3 % in the year ahead and 2 . 5 % when the economic allow . we do not have a clue where Labour stand . I agree with the Minister that we have extraordinarily capable armed force whose productivity be second to none . however , as be set out in " ready for War ? " , our Defence Committee report , they be extremely engaged globally and have a great deal to do , much of which be invaluable . at the same time , they be have to prepare for the " pre - war " phase to which the Defence Secretary refer . in that context , do my hon . friend agree that the timing of the 2 . 5 % target — that be very welcome and a very good first step — need to be determine by the level of threat as a priority expenditure , rather than as economic condition allow ? I do not think that we can commit to level of public expenditure or tax cut , for example , without be confident that the economy can support they in a prudent fashion — an entirely reasonable and rational approach . however , I totally agree with my right hon . friend the Chair of the Defence Committee . we all recognise that we be live in a more dangerous world — the Secretary of State have allude to the threat we face not just in Ukraine but in respect of other adversary around the world — and I totally understand why there be the wide debate on what we spend , but we already have a significant budget , and we must ensure that it be spend well and deliver value for money . that be why a key priority for I be reform of our procurement system so that we can ensure that our armed force can prioritise effectively . ultimately , it be the capability that we have now that will determine our ability to warfight . I call the SNP spokesman . I congratulate the shadow Defence Secretary on secure the urgent question and join he and the Minister in remember those on HMS Richmond . on Friday , the Public Accounts Committee ' s find that the " MoD be increasingly reliant on the UK ' s ally to protect our national interest . NATO membership deter hostility , but the report warn such deterrence can only be effective if our Armed Forces be credible . " to paraphrase the report , give that many of our ally face similar capability challenge , be the Ministry of Defence develop mitigation for deal with the risk of allied support be curtail or withdraw if , critically , there be a change of Administration in Washington come November ? to be fair to the hon . Gentleman , he make an important point about the importance of alliance . NATO be fundamental to the defence of our country , the wide western world and our ally beyond . critically , to put this in context when we talk about the state of the armed force , which be what the urgent question be about , and the alliance that he refer to , let we remember that we have just launch Steadfast Defender , which be one of the large ever NATO exercise , involve 96 , 000 personnel , of which almost 20 , 000 be from the UK . I believe that we make up 40 % of the land force . that be an extraordinary contribution by the UK . we also offer our nuclear deterrent to NATO . we be support our ally , we stand together under article 5 , and we should all do everything possible to support NATO in its 75th year . may I commend to anyone interested in the historical context a report produce by the Defence Committee in July in 2019 call , " shift the Goalposts ? Defence Expenditure and the 2 % Pledge : an Update " , HC 2527 ? it show that for the last 20 year of the cold war this country spend between 5 . 6 % and 4 . 1 % of GDP , calculate in the same way we do today , on defence . do that not show both side of the House that we have an awful long way to go now that there be a hot war in Europe before we match what we use to do when there be a cold war in Europe ? my right hon . friend put that eloquently , and he speak with great passion and expertise on the cold war and our recent history . as he know , in the cold war era we have the working assumption that an invasion — or certainly a confrontation — could be launch on the border in Germany very quickly . we have a huge number of force deploy , and give that threat we spend , understandably , a high percentage of gdp on defence . since then , we think we have a more peaceful era . those illusion have be shatter by Putin , and we have all have to wake up to that . that be why we have do so much to support Ukraine and , yes , why we will do everything possible to support our armed force . the Secretary of State say he want to ensure that " our entire defence ecosystem be ready " to defend , but here be the reality of our armed force under this government : capability delay and shortfall , stockpile shortage , lose personnel , woeful recruitment level , a £ 29 billion black hole in finance , and , as of last week , no real boost to the MOD ' s budget . the Secretary of State be fail , isn ' t he ? when the hon . Lady talk about procurement and delay , I would have think she could at least recognise the support we have give to Ukraine , where we have procure an extraordinary amount of ordnance into the country to help Ukrainians to defend themselves . much of that have be at great pace , not least from gift , for example , our as - 90 , a whole range of munition , and 300 , 000 artillery shell . have it not be this country ' s role , I think we can safely say that Russia would have be successful . whether it be covid , the war in Ukraine or the middle east , it be clear that our world be become more dangerous , not less . many of we in the House have be call for increase defence spending and for a recognition of the symbiotic relationship between our economy and security . that have be illustrate by what have be go on in the Red sea . that be why we need to spend more , but how might we spend it ? will the Minister consider a defence review , because Ukraine continue to illustrate how the character of conflict be change ? on that note , will he agree that the big international security threat be Russia as it move to a war footing ? we have do well to slide across £ 12 billion of support , but unless more be do , the tide will turn in Ukraine and that will change the economy and security of the whole continent . my right hon . friend , as ever , make some excellent point . he be right to mention how we spend the money . it be one thing to talk about GDP figure and spend , but what be our priority ? as Procurement Minister , and as I set out in my recent statement on the integrate procurement model , I want much great use of datum , particularly from the frontline in Ukraine , to inform our own defence industry so that we can bring forward at a much great pace those technological innovation , whether in uncrewed system or complex weapon , that will truly help strengthen our defence . as for a review , he will appreciate that be a matter for the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence , but he make an excellent point . we have the small Army since the napoleonic era , so can I press the Minister on this ? be a cut of £ 2 . 5 billion in cash term announce in the Budget last week ? I hear this point about Napoleon many time . if it be the Labour party ' s position to significantly increase the size of the stand Army , that be a massive financial commitment . the hon . Gentleman need to have a word with the shadow Defence Secretary and the shadow Chancellor , because as yet they have not once commit to current spending level , let alone 2 . 5 % when the economic condition allow . I strongly support my hon . friend ' s powerful commitment to defence in general , but I be rather disappointed by his tepid promise about move to 2 . 5 % of GDP . I also find myself in the career - wreck position of strongly agree with the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , who put the argument extremely well . the fact of the matter be that last week ' s Budget reduce both kind of defence expenditure by £ 2 . 5 billion , and we be not face any kind of move towards 3 % , which no less a figure than the former Secretary of State for Defence , my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , publicly call for last week . two serve Ministers have say how disappointed they be by the Budget . by what possible arithmetic do the Minister conclude we be in fact increase defence spending , when every expert in the world say that we patently be not ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who always speak with such expertise on defence matter . first , on 2 . 5 % be tepid , we have to be able to sustain that . if it be a one - off , the Army , the Navy and the Air Force would not be able to plan accordingly . it have to be an investment that we can sustain and , thereby , the economy of the country have to be able to sustain it . forgive I for sound like I be still in my previous job at the Treasury , but the country have to be able to afford it , and we need to be prudent in the commitment we make on public expenditure , not least so that they be sustainable in the long term and not a one - off , which would be the bad thing we could do . the Minister keep say we should not talk down our armed force , but we be not ; the armed force be do a splendid , brilliant job . what we be do be run down what the Government be do , which be not enough — let we put it that way . we have the great threat since the cold war . we have war in Ukraine , the middle east in disarray and China increase its spending . the real blame for the situation with defence lie with the Prime Minister and the Chancellor . do the Minister think , in these circumstance , that most reasonable people would have think it okay not to put extra resource in the Budget for defence ? when the Prime Minister be Chancellor , he oversee the big increase in spending since the cold war . the current Chancellor significantly increase defence spending in the previous Budget for the year ahead . we be not cut defence spending . as I say , if the hon . Gentleman take the figure in totality , it will rise by 1 . 8 % in real term . if we spend what we expect to next year , we will spend 2 . 3 % of gdp on defence — around £ 55 . 6 billion . may I make a suggestion to my hon . friend ? it be perfectly clear that the MOD want to increase defence spending , as do the Opposition spokesperson , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , if we be to take his criticism at all seriously . be the right question to ask whether we be spend enough to prevent a war , not to fight a war ? how much more do we need to spend to be an effective deterrent , which we do not appear to be at the moment ? as I say , it be important that we engage in the key capability question . it be one thing to talk about spend more , but what capability would we purchase , and where be our shortcoming ? it must be a new development at the heart of defence to have a constant feedback loop of datum on integrate warfighting and what be happen in Ukraine , with the armed service and with industry , so that we know what capability will make the difference . to give one example , we have see the extraordinary impact of uncrewed weapon in Ukraine . we have make assumption about technology in our equipment plan , which be probably far more expensive than those option . we need to look at this from a warfighting point of view . to support deterrence , the important thing be to back our armed force . that be why we have our spending commitment , but it have to be balance against the ability of the economy to support it and sustain it in the long term . the Times recently illustrate that the british Army will shrink in size to 67 , 000 within the next two year due to the current recruitment and retention crisis . our senior and close ally , include the US , have express their grave concern , and even senior conservative have concede that our armed force have be hollow out since 2010 . as threat to the UK increase , why have the Government shrunk our Army to its small size since Napoleon ? the hon . Gentleman talk about a crisis in recruitment but , as I say , January see the high number of application to join the Army for six year . that be an important and positive development . on the size of the armed force , we should talk about not just the number of soldier , but the amount of accommodation to support they , and the platform , the weapon and the capability . that be an extremely expensive undertaking . if the hon . Gentleman think that that be the right thing to do , he need to lobby his colleague on his own Front Bench , because they have not commit to spend 2 % of gdp on defence , let alone 2 . 5 % . as a former Armed Forces Minister , I pay high tribute to his Majesty ' s armed force but not to his Majesty ' s Treasury . the Red Book — the Budget Bible — show clearly in table 2 . 1 and 2 . 2 that next year ' s core defence budget have be cut by £ 2 . 5 billion . that be true . it ill behove any government — let alone one that purport to call themselves conservative — to use one - off payment to Ukraine or overspend in the nuclear budget from the consolidated fund and pretend that they be part of the defence budget , when everyone in this House know that they be not . as the son of a D - day veteran , I say to the Government — if not to the Minister , for whom I have great regard — more in anger than in sorrow that what they have do be deeply dishonourable , and they should be ashamed of themselves . my right hon . friend be a Defence Minister , and I respect his great passion about all thing relate to the armed force , particularly because of his father . when we spend on the nuclear deterrent or on support Ukraine — purchase weapon and provide ordnance , ultimately to help defend ourselves — that be legitimately describe as defence expenditure . after all , how else be we to pay for that , and from which budget ? compare with last year , there be a real - term increase of 1 . 8 % , which if we spend what we expect will amount to £ 55 . 6 billion and 2 . 3 % of gdp . many citizen will be rightly concerned about the use of the phrase " pre - war world " . what require clarification be not simply the scale of the british military in year to come , but where the armed force be currently deploy , and what they be do . be british serviceman fire weaponry in Ukraine , as suggest by german ministerial source ? be british force assist Israel in its genocide through the provision of military intelligence ? know the answer to those question be fundamental to our security , and indeed to our know whether the UK be uphold international law , never mind it be a basic democratic right , and something that our citizen be entitle to know . the hon . Gentleman know that we do not comment on speculation , particularly on sensitive operational matter relate to the armed force , and that be the right approach . yes , we have a duty of candour , but we also have to protect those serve on the frontline . the fighting in Ukraine prove that size matter . the Minister should reconstitute the Territorial Army , which demonstrate that , with economy , quantity have a quality all of its own . my right hon . friend have a quality all of his own , as show in how he put his question . he make a very good point . we tend to talk about the Regular Army , but we must remember our reserve . they be incredibly important and we pay tribute to they . Ukraine have show that this country be able to make an extraordinary contribution . this be speculate , but it be likely that if it have not be for the contribution we make , Ukraine would not have be successful in repel the Russians as far as it have do . so there we have it : President Putin will be order his officer to stop sabre - rattle with the west because the British be change their procurement rule ! the reality be that the Minister can not fight the war he want to fight with the capability he have . he will be present with the conflict that develop , and we need the capability and resilience to meet threat that emerge . what assessment have he make of the threat to the United Kingdom , and how will he meet those threat with the armed force he have ? the hon . Gentleman ' s rather trite comment on procurement be a total failure to understand how the military work . he want to talk about the deterrent ; everything from our nuclear submarine right down to small arm be part of the procurement system . they all have to be procure . my priority be ensure that we have a procurement system that be agile , get equipment to the frontline as fast as possible , and can engage with the late technological development ; think of laser and uncrewed system . technology be move at an extraordinary pace . we have use technology to support Ukraine so far . we have provide 4 , 000 drone and will increase our support to around 10 , 000 . we be do everything possible to support Ukraine . all that be do through the procurement system — if I may say so , highly effectively . I join my hon . friend in commend the professionalism of our armed force , and in point out that Labour have not commit to an increase in defence spending , but may I remind he that the first duty of any Government be to ensure that defence spending primarily reflect the threat , rather than the ability to pay ? we have a war in Europe . we have an increasingly belligerent Russia . I chair the defence committee of the 1922 committee . conservative Back Benchers be very much behind the idea that we need to increase defence spending . what do the Minister think it will take to increase defence spending ? first of all , we have increase defence spending . crucially , the last spending review see the large allocation of spending to defence since the cold war . yes , we have set an aspiration of 2 . 5 % , and the answer to when that will happen be : when economic condition allow . it would be imprudent to commit to such a level of spending if we do not think it could be sustain . the bad thing would be to have that spending for maybe one or two year , and then have to go backwards because we do not think it be sustainable . this be about balance affordability against commitment , but we need to be absolutely clear that at over £ 50 billion , this be the most we have ever spend on defence . there be an extraordinary effort in support of Ukraine , and we have highly capable armed force who be make an extraordinary contribution to NATO , include through the late NATO exercise , and will continue to do so . I do not want to make too much play of your early remark , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I be bear on the night the House be bomb and this Chamber be burn out . as I have listen to the Minister , I have be say to myself — I hope that he will recall this — that he represent the party of Winston Churchill and Margaret Thatcher , but now that the world be more dangerous than I can recall it be in all my year , we be not able to defend the country adequately . I say to member on both side of the House that this be a wake - up call ; we must act now . I pay respect to the hon . Gentleman ' s longevity and seniority , and to the fact that on the day he be bear , the House be bomb , during whichever war it be — I think it be the second world war . he say that we be unable to defend ourselves , and I totally and utterly reject that claim . if Putin have succeed in his invasion of Ukraine , yes , we would have be look at a situation similar to that in the late 1930 , but that invasion have not succeed . the reason for that be the involvement of this Government , who take extraordinary step to train Ukrainians ; provide vital munition , such as next - generation light anti - tank weapon , before the war start ; ensure that we be the first country to provide tank ; and encourage other nation to provide enormous amount of arm . without that , the world would be an even less safe place , but I accept that it be become more dangerous , which be why we be support our armed force , and why we be play such a massive role in NATO ' s Steadfast Defender exercise . the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) refer to member on both side of the House . be there not a clear distinction between member on either side of the House , namely that from the Prime Minister and the Chancellor downward there be a commitment and an agreement to defence spending amounting to 2 . 5 % of gdp , while in stark contrast Labour Members , while suggest that they be a Government in wait , be not prepared to commit themselves to 2 . 5 % , or even to our current spending commitment ? there be unity on the conservative side , and complete disunity on the other . in my hon . friend ' s constituency , which I have the pleasure of visit recently , there be many defence interest , and he have hit the nail on the head . we have hear all the theatric , but the fact be that we have not a clue what the opposition will spend on defence . Labour Members have not even confirm that they will spend the exist 2 . 3 % , let alone 2 . 5 % . the conflict in Ukraine be a stark reminder of why we must take our defence incredibly seriously . the Minister have just say that the world be become a more dangerous place . do he therefore agree that his Government ' s decision to cut our UK troop to 10 , 000 be irresponsible , and will he commit himself to reverse those cut and ensure that the British Army be the requisite size to defend the United Kingdom and its ally ? as I have say , we have just commit 40 % of the land force personnel to the Steadfast Defender exercise . NATO be the key to the defence of this nation , and indeed the whole continent , in conventional term . we should recognise the enormous contribution of our armed force , and the fact that we have increase spending significantly . however , I hear what colleague be say , as do the Secretary of State . we have set out the case for 2 . 5 % , but we want that 2 . 5 % to be sustainable , so that the economy can afford it over the long term , and that will be possible through growth and sensible measure on fiscal policy . the Minister concede early that funding for Ukraine and the escalate nuclear cost be at the expense of restore the viability of our frontline readiness , but deterrence be a lot cheap than war . surely our support for Ukraine and the deterrent should be a charge on the general fund , rather than far hollow out our conventional armed force . I do not believe I make that point about nuclear . the right hon . Gentleman have say that these factor be at the expense of the frontline , but nuclear be the frontline . we have have the continuous at - sea deterrent patrolling in defence of this country every year since 1969 , as I recall . we have have it for a long time , and it be fundamental to our defence . the idea that that be not frontline spending be extraordinary . look at the figure for resource and capital departmental expenditure limit , it look like there be a 7 % — £ 2 . 5 billion — cut for this coming year . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that defence spending will be flat as a share of GDP . with Russia ' s expenditure on its military at 40 % of its total economy , why do the Secretary of State accept the reduction from the Chancellor and the Prime Minister ? I have explain why we do not believe that there have be a reduction ; we believe that there will be a 1 . 8 % increase in real term . the hon . Gentleman say that spending as a percentage of GDP be flat . I point out that in 2019 , it be 2 . 08 % — just under 2 . 1 % . we believe that if we spend everything we expect to in the next financial year , that will be 2 . 3 % , which be a significant increase . I be sure that the Procurement Minister be aware of survitec in my constituency , which have provide equipment to the armed force for decade . he will acknowledge that the last few year have teach we the importance of have secure UK supply chain , and of get good job to the whole country through the power of procurement . I invite he to come and speak to Survitec , so that he can hear directly from the company about its frustration with the procurement process . before I be injure play football for Parliament versus the Army , I always use to enjoy play five - a - side with the hon . Gentleman . I would be delighted to accept his invitation to visit , because small and medium - sized enterprise and business be absolutely critical . as the Minister for Defence Procurement , and have run an SME , I believe that we have to have an environment that encourage investment in defence and support our domestic supply chain . a key part of that be exportability . I look forward to discuss these matter with the company that he mention . the shocking state of Army accommodation be a big driver of the recruitment and retention challenge that we face , so it will not come as a surprise to hear that I be yet again raise the issue of the shocking standard of accommodation at the Chicksands base . when I catch up with serve personnel over a pint or two at our local pub in Shefford , there be a grow sense of resignation about the future of the base , but there be real concern that its plan closure will mean that the situation go unadjusted , and that really poor accommodation unit be not improve . to do right by those personnel , will the Minister commit to revisit the Government ' s decision not to upgrade either of the two service basis in my constituency , where hundred of bed fall into grade 3 or 4 ? we engage with this issue in the hon . Gentleman ' s Westminster Hall debate on accommodation , in which I announce our plan for chicksand . I entirely accept that this be a matter on which there should be engagement with the local community , and that there will be a range of view . I emphasise that we have put an extra £ 400 million into accommodation , which have allow we to deliver our winter plan highly effectively . there have be a massive increase in the number of property in the defence estate benefit from damp and mould package , but also from new door and so on , to deal with long - stand issue in the estate , and I be keen to do more . finally , I call Jim Shannon . I thank the Minister for his answer to the question pose to he . there can be no doubt that the Government must do more to increase defence spending , give that a large portion of our defence budget have rightly be spend on assist Ukraine . however , we must ensure that other issue be not leave behind . unfortunately , there be no mention in last week ' s Budget of an additional funding increase for our armed force . will the Minister increase our defence budget , so that we can ensure that our action speak louder than word , and so that promise be keep , and our armed force can keep we safe ? as ever , we have save the good till last . I think the hon . Gentleman have attend every urgent question or statement I have ever be involve in , and I pay tribute to he for that , and for the way that he represent his constituent in Northern Ireland , particularly those who serve in the armed force . they have always be a huge part of our british military story . I have always pay tribute to they and the industry — for example , Thales — for their contribution . last week , I have the pleasure of meet representative of a brilliant SME from Northern Ireland that be support the Royal Air Force . I have be clear that we have the large increase in defence spending since the cold war at the last spending review , far funding in the Budget thereafter , and a commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp when the economy can support that . Gibraltar : UK - EU Negotiations ( Urgent Question ) : will the Minister make a statement on UK negotiation with the EU in respect of Gibraltar ? the Minister for Europe , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) , be currently in Gibraltar , where he be meet the Chief Minister to continue our joint effort to conclude a treaty with the European Union . with the Government of Gibraltar , he will also be assess contingency plan in the case of a non - negotiate outcome . his visit be also an opportunity to reiterate once again the UK ' s steadfast commitment to Gibraltar . in December 2020 , the UK , with Gibraltar and Spain , agree a political framework on how a future agreement between the UK and the European Union in respect of Gibraltar would function in the interest of all party . this represent the first stage of a two - part process whereby the EU would examine a request from Spain in agreement with the UK to initiate the procedure for the negotiation of a separate UK - EU agreement in respect of Gibraltar . the key objective of the political framework be to safeguard Gibraltar ' s prosperity by ensure that people and good can move easily between Gibraltar and the surround community . this be important for the whole region ' s economy . the UK - EU negotiation begin in October 2021 , and 17 round of formal negotiation have take place in Brussels and London . these have be support by numerous technical session as well as official and ministerial engagement . the Foreign Secretary have meet Commission Vice - President Š ef č ovi č and , separately , spanish Foreign Minister Albares , and underline the UK ' s commitment to conclude a UK - EU treaty . the UK be steadfast in our support for Gibraltar and will not agree to anything that compromise sovereignty . while negotiation have be technically and politically complex , significant progress have be make , and both the UK and EU have present text throughout the negotiation . agreement can only be achieve by respect the balance of the political framework . throughout this process the UK Government have work side by side with the Government of Gibraltar . throughout our negotiation with the EU , the Government of Gibraltar have form part of our negotiate team . alongside our joint effort to conclude negotiation , the Foreign Secretary and the Chief Minister agree that it remain prudent to continue work together to ensure that robust plan be in place for all scenario , include a non - negotiate outcome . alongside the UK - EU negotiation , the UK , with Gibraltar , have maintain a regular dialogue with Spain . it be in everyone ' s interest to conclude a UK - EU treaty to help secure future prosperity for Gibraltar and the surround region . this can be do without prejudice to our respective position on sovereignty and jurisdiction . as I mention , the Minister for Europe be in Gibraltar today meet the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister of Gibraltar . this be a continuation of the close work relationship between our two government , both in our effort to conclude an agreement and to ensure that robust contingency plan be in place . we be unable to provide a running commentary on the negotiation , but I can assure the whole House that the UK ' s position remain as it have be throughout : we will not agree to anything that compromise sovereignty . the UK stand steadfast in our support for Gibraltar and in ensure that its sovereignty be safeguard . on Friday , the Minister for Europe write to I as Chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee . he be in Gibraltar today and , follow the granting of this urgent question , and to prove its value , I receive an urgent letter two hour ago from the Chief Minister of Gibraltar propose a meeting with my Committee next Wednesday . the Rock be not cover by the Brexit withdrawal agreement or the trade and co - operation agreement , at the insistence of the European Commission . temporary arrangement have persist since , base around a political framework agree between the UK and spanish Governments in December 2020 . the Government have exclusive competence to negotiate a treaty with the EU on the question of Gibraltar as an overseas territory . my Committee travel to the Rock in 2022 and have meeting with the Chief Minister and his colleague in Gibraltar . I be disturb to hear from the Minister that what appear to have be agree in principle between the UK and the EU with regard to Gibraltar ' s future would include EU Schengen border check be perform on Gibraltar ; Gibraltar align with EU rule to ensure a so - call level playing field ; and joint UK - spanish management of Gibraltar ' s airport and , therefore , defence issue . if so , what the Government have agree crosse their own negotiate red line , as first set out to my Committee in September 2021 . this risk set a dangerous precedent for the UK ' s overseas territory and Crown dependency , allow a foreign power to set the rule of our engagement and diminish the constitutionally entrust role that the UK play . there be limited avenue for the people of Gibraltar to hold the UK Government to account and , give the Government ' s apparent eagerness to agree a legal text , I be concerned that what have be announce will not allow those who hold blue residency card to cross into Spain relatively unhindered as they have do in the past . schengen border control on Gibraltar ' s soil could mean that blue card holder become subject to the EU ' s 90 / 180 - day rule and , soon , the EU ' s entry / exit system . there be some serious question . on sovereignty and defence , will the Government rule out agree to Schengen border check on Gibraltar ' s soil , cede UK control of Gibraltar ' s airport and align with EU rule ? what be the Government do to ensure the right of Gibraltar ' s blue card holder ? do the Government intend to do all this through primary legislation ? if not , why not ? finally , will the people of Gibraltar be offer a domestic referendum , as they be in 2002 and 2006 ? I reassure the House that the Government ' s position with respect to Gibraltar have not change . we will not agree to anything that compromise sovereignty . we continue to work side by side with the Government of Gibraltar , and we will only agree to term with which the Government of Gibraltar be content . I know that the Chief Minister have appear before the European Scrutiny Committee and have provide evidence in respect of our propose arrangement with the Schengen area . our approach have not change . the 2020 political framework note that that there will be a " level playing field " provision in the treaty to agree mutual standard on matter such as labour , the environment and taxation , which be relatively normal element of trade agreement with the EU or anyone else . on Gibraltar ' s airport , we be prepared to explore practical and technical option to facilitate flight between Gibraltar and the EU . the UK will only agree to term with which the Government of Gibraltar be content , and we will not agree to anything that compromise sovereignty . it be worth highlight that , in his letter to my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , the Chief Minister say that " the UK and Gibraltar have never work more closely together in deliver the outcome that the People of Gibraltar want . " that be how it should be . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) for secure this urgent question . I draw attention to my declaration as a shadow Minister and a member of the all - party parliamentary group on Gibraltar . let I be clear that labour ' s commitment to Gibraltar and , indeed , our wide family of overseas territory be unwavering . since I have be in this role , I have have the pleasure to meet Chief Minister Fabian Picardo and his Ministers , and with other gibraltarian parliamentarian . I have visit the Rock and the Campo , and I have discuss these matter in Madrid , too . Gibraltar be integral to the UK ' s history and future , and it have robust democratic institution and a dynamic economy . it also remain an important base for UK force , so I make it clear that there would be no change if there be a new Government in the UK . the sovereignty and self - determination of Gibraltar be not up for debate . we believe in the right of the people of Gibraltar to choose their own future , as they have make clear , and this must be the bedrock of any negotiation with Spain , which be equally a close friend and ally of the UK . it be also a critical partner in NATO and in many other respect , so we hope and believe that an agreement can be reach to the mutual benefit of Gibraltar , Spain , the UK and the EU . these negotiation have go on long than anticipate , and it be critical that the Government now work hard to get a good deal over the line that provide the people , business and community on both side of the border with the clarity and stability they need . I have a few short question . can the Minister explain in a little more detail where the negotiation be on some of the key issue in relation to the movement of good , law enforcement and citizen ' right ? secondly , can he give we a little more detail on the Europe Minister ' s visit to Gibraltar today , and indeed on any recent discussion he have have with Spain and the EU on outstanding matter ? it would be helpful if the Europe Minister make a statement on his return from Gibraltar . finally , what support be the Government give to Gibraltar on NNO contingency planning ? however much we do not want to see a non - negotiate outcome , it be important that we be prepared for all outcome . Gibraltar have a distinctive and proud place in british history , and I hope the Government and all party can get a deal that work for Gibraltar ' s people . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . we agree that we need to stand steadfast in our support for Gibraltar . I say again that we will not agree to anything that compromise sovereignty . it be important that today ' s conversation be take place between the Minister for Europe and the Chief Minister , set out the future discussion and look at what might be — we hope not — a non - negotiate outcome . we will be work closely with the Government in Gibraltar and we will continue to see what support they might need in any scenario that might arise , but we be work in good faith towards a deal . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as chair of the all - party group on Gibraltar . do the Minister recognise that our group have visit Gibraltar not once but repeatedly since the Brexit process and have keep in regular touch with the people on the Rock , their business and the Government of Gibraltar ? do he also agree that , ultimately , the only people who be well place to judge what be in the interest of Gibraltar be its british people and that the first duty of a British Government must be to protect their interest at all time ? do he also agree that the very close co - operation between his Majesty ' s Government of the United Kingdom and that of Gibraltar be recognise on both side and that in no circumstance be either side prepare to cross any red line , but that a pragmatic solution , recognise Gibraltar ' s unique geographical position , be necessary and achievable ? will he commit to the Government ' s renew determination to achieve that within those proper principle that we all stand by ? I recognise the important work of the all - party group under my hon . friend ' s stewardship as chair and the important work that he have do in engage with the people of Gibraltar and the Government there . he rightly say that there be opportunity not just to protect sovereignty but to ensure future prosperity for Gibraltar and its people . I restate that , as be make clear in the letter send to my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , the UK Government and Gibraltar have " never work more closely together " . that be entirely right , give the seriousness of , and where we be in , the negotiating process . I be delighted to hear the cross - party outbreak of support for nation choose their own future , as that be unusual in this place . in recent year , the UK have manage to trash its international reputation . will the Minister let we know how much Brexit have cost Gibraltar so far ? will he promise this House that the Government will this time stick to their agreement , the statement they make to the Committee chair by the hon . member for Stone and those position that they hold , and negotiate in the interest of the people of Gibraltar and not in those of ideological power trip ? we continue to work hard in these negotiation . as I say , we be work in good faith , and to uphold sovereignty and to work towards future prosperity , which be vital for the people of Gibraltar and for the region more widely . we be optimistic about those prospect , but we be plan for all scenario . will the Minister assure this House that the UK Government will not agree to any treaty that compromise UK sovereignty and will remain steadfast in their support for Gibraltar ? there be a large jewish community in Gibraltar and significant antisemitism from the Spanish Government , which have lead to a recall of diplomatic personnel only three month ago . do he agree that it be important that in our negotiation with the EU and anyone else the sovereignty of all of the people of Gibraltar be respect ? I absolutely agree that we need to respect that sovereignty . I stand shoulder to shoulder with my right hon . and learn Friend in say that antisemitism have no place in our society . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I agree with the Minister that we can not compromise on the sovereignty issue that Gibraltarians hold so close to their heart . he be right to point out the practical and technical option in respect of the airport , which also serve as RAF Gibraltar , but will he outline more about the option he be think about ? the point I make about practical and technical option be in relation to facilitate flight between Gibraltar and the EU more widely . the UK will only agree to term that the Government of Gibraltar be content with and will not agree to anything that compromise Gibraltar ' s sovereignty . can the Minister explain to we his assessment of the attitude of the European Union towards the continue sovereignty of Gibraltar , bear in mind Spain ' s long - stand ambition to infringe that sovereignty ? our negotiation be with the EU . we continue to take those negotiation forward and will do , as I have say repeatedly , with the sovereignty of the people of Gibraltar at the front of our mind . I thank the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) for secure this urgent question . alongside support the sovereignty of the people of Gibraltar and their right to self - determination , we need to recognise that 96 % of they do not vote for Brexit . when he talk about give they a voice , perhaps he need to listen to why they need that voice . I be strike by what the Minister say about the value of a level playing field and the concept of an alignment of trade , economic right and standard encompass that level playing field . for the avoidance of doubt , will he clarify that there be no conflict between support sovereignty and support alignment ? that might have lesson for other negotiation come forward in this field . level play field provision be normal element of trade agreement with the EU , or anyone else . in line with what the UK agree with the EU under the trade and co - operation agreement , commitment should be bilateral and reciprocal , not base on the rule of either party . by my reckoning , my hon . friend have say no few than five time that the british Government will not agree to anything that compromise british sovereignty . however , it be clear from the letter from the Minister for Europe , my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) , that traveller arrive in Gibraltar will have to pass through Schengen immigration arrangement . how can it be the case that british traveller , arrive in british territory , will have to deliver their passport for inspection to a foreign border official and that not be incompatible with british sovereignty ? we be seek a mobility arrangement with the Schengen area to facilitate flow at the Gibraltar - Spain border . the arrangement would remove check from the Gibraltar - Spain border . instead , those arrive in Gibraltar would pass through Gibraltar immigration , follow by Schengen immigration . [ interruption . ] the exact detail of arrangement form part of the ongoing negotiation . in line with the December 2020 political framework , as a default those travel to Gibraltar would undergo both Gibraltar immigration control and Schengen entry check . during my visit to Gibraltar , include recently with the excellent armed force parliamentary scheme , I appreciate not merely that Gibraltar be an incredible place , but also the firm commitment of Gibraltarians to uphold their sovereignty . what assessment have the Minister make of the ongoing impact of the uncertainty on the economy of the Rock ? what step be be take to catalyse growth in the region ? that be why we be take forward these negotiation , which be about future prosperity and protect sovereignty . that be fundamental and the Government in Gibraltar be keen to work with we on that . they have say that they be work in good faith and feel that our relationship be strong than ever . as the House will be aware , Goole be twin with Gibraltar — the Minister look shocked ; I be sure he realise that it be a match make in heaven . I be in Gibraltar on Friday , visit the Parliament and meet the Mayor , Carmen Gomez . the very clear message send to I on this issue be the importance of a resolution , not least because of the large number of spanish worker who make their living in Gibraltar . that be a point worth emphasise in the negotiation . will the Minister confirm that any arrangement will not make any difference to the right of a british national to live and work in Gibraltar ? I do not know why I look shocked , because it be pretty obvious from my hon . friend ' s hard work that where Goole lead , the rest of the UK follow . as I say , we be work hard on the border issue at the airport and more widely . the aim be to reduce the friction that will take place . I thank the Minister for his answer and the clear commitment that he have give . we have always have a great relationship with Gibraltar . I be a big supporter of that , as be other in the Chamber . it be so important that our relationship be maintain with strength and pride , as we be able to work well together . with the Minister ensure that all effort be make to continue our much - value relationship with Gibraltar , and that we do all that we can to support it , as a british overseas territory , with the same right as everywhere else ? I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s commitment to Gibraltar , and that of most people in the Chamber . a huge amount of work be do , not least by Mr Speaker , to foster the relationship , which we be very proud of . the hon . Gentleman can be assure that we will continue work in that way . the good feedback that we receive today from the Chief Minister be that the Government of Gibraltar believe that they have a good work relationship with we — probably the good that we have have . we will continue to work together in their interest on that basis . what be my hon . friend ' s assessment of the joint declaration sign with the british overseas territory ? do it provide , in his view , the right basis to work with they more closely in future , include Gibraltar ? give the threat face by Britain and her ally around the world , do he agree that our overseas territory be more important than ever ? I completely agree on the latter point — no question . the joint declaration set out a more modern framework for our relationship with the overseas territory . we will set out a strategy for the overseas territory with the overseas territory over the month ahead . then we will move on to partnership compact . we need a more modern relationship where the accountability be clear , not just between the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the overseas territory , but across the whole width of Whitehall . member on both side of the House want to see that . it be entirely appropriate in the world that we work in today . have spend two and a half year engage with Gibraltar in the Department for exit the European Union , and chair the joint ministerial council for the overseas territory in that process , I be very glad to hear the Minister confirm that a Minister be in Gibraltar talk to the Chief Minister directly . do he agree that , as well as reiterate our position on sovereignty , it be important that we show respect for the view of the people of Gibraltar , both in their determination to remain british and in elect their own government ? we must continue , as the Chief Minister say , to work hand in glove with the Chief Minister and the Government of Gibraltar . Understood . give his experience , my hon . friend know that these matter be very important , very technical and have take time . we absolutely need to work hand in glove and shoulder to shoulder with our friend in Gibraltar to make further progress , as we seem to be right now , although we prepare for all eventuality . I listen carefully to what the Minister say , but I fear that there be still many question to be answer around sovereignty , which be ably raise by my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) , particularly regard what it mean for blue card holder on the Rock . when the agreement be make between the government , will the Minister ensure that the European Scrutiny Committee and the whole House have a chance to scrutinise that agreement fully , so that we can come to a conclusion ourselves on those question ? one of the principal objective of the treaty be to provide for the fluid movement of all people in Gibraltar across the border with Spain , and of course there will be scrutiny . the Chief Minister say that he would be very willing to appear in front of the European Scrutiny Committee , as will the Minister for Europe in the near future . mortgage ( switch ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for the purpose of enable certain mortgage borrower to switch to a new mortgage arrangement ; and for connected purpose . let I take this opportunity to thank the UK Mortgage Prisoners campaign group , which have assist I in bring this Bill to the Floor of the House — specifically , Rachel Neale and Jill Hulme , who be in the Special Gallery . I be very grateful to they and to their team . an estimate 200 , 000 people across the UK , include 40 , 000 scot , be deem to be mortgage prisoner , think to be at risk of lose their home . many have be stick on high street rate since the financial crisis of 2008 , and have be unable to switch due to toughen borrowing criterion . in January , during a session of Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister assure I that the UK Government be aware of the difficult situation face mortgage prisoner and would be take action , yet last week the Chancellor fail to introduce measure to tackle the issue . it be scandalous that , yet again , the spring Budget have ignore the plight of ten of thousand of individual and family unfairly trap on crippling mortgage rate . as the UK Government sit on their hand , have make billion from the sale of closed mortgage book , mortgage prisoner face lose their home through no fault of their own . one have to beg the question of this unfettered capitalism : how many people have be make homeless since the financial crash , and indeed how many have lose their life ? the Bill that I be introduce to Parliament today aim to finally end the unfair 16 - year financial injustice and address the failure of successive Conservative and Labour Governments . let we not forget that for well over a decade the UK Government be the ultimate holder of the mortgage through UK Asset Resolution . I can imagine think that no Government would do anything deliberately to harm the hundred of thousand of UK resident in that position , and that a sensible resolution would eventually be find . sadly , it be not a purgatory before thing get well . indeed , they be to get bad . in 2019 , UKAR sell a tranche of book , include some of my constituent ’ mortgage , to a company call Heliodor Mortgages , which I have mention previously . my constituent have never hear of it , and with good reason : it be not an entity that I or anyone else in this House could borrow from . it be a vehicle that exist to service the exist Northern Rock mortgage . although Heliodor do operate in a regulated market , its ultimate owner , Topaz Finance , be not a regulated entity and rely on third - party administrator who be regulate by the Financial Conduct Authority in order to comply with its regulation . significantly , as a London School of Economics report by Kath Scanlon et al . point out , the setting of standard variable rate mortgage be not a regulated activity , mean that a business opportunity for morally ambivalent vulture fund such as Topaz have be create , and people — our constituent — be offer up as host for parasite . despite never have fall behind on their payment , our constituent find themselves subject to a host of fee and other spurious admin charge . incredibly , the amount that some of my constituent owe rise by almost £ 10 , 000 in a couple of year , with no additional lending offer . they be push into negative equity as the amount they owe Heliodor become great than the value of their property . the cruell part of this sorry tale of modern Britain be this : one of my constituent be approach the end of the 25 - year term of their mortgage , but as they be force into the interest - only plan , just a few short year after they begin to make repayment , they now risk lose the family home of a quarter of a century unless they can come up with the full amount owe to Heliodor . the aspect I find most gall be the inversion of the principle of home ownership , whereby people have end up pay what be essentially rent to a vulture fund , which almost certainly know it will be able to acquire the property at the end of the term . Topaz Finance will have be lick its lip , I be sure , at a deal that basically guarantee that it will be pay twice : first , through the monthly payment that my constituent have be make ; and secondly , when it sell their home from under they in 2029 at a healthy profit over what it pick the property up for in 2019 . the long tail of the era of neoliberal economic be still pernicious , because there be a confusion between concept such as taxpayer value and what any of we would think they actually mean . to people like I , taxpayer value be not find in pauperise hundred of thousand of household , nor be it to be find in scrape back every single penny that taxpayer see spend on ensure that the economy do not collapse overnight . to this old - fashioned social democrat , government be not a bank , with shareholder that need to see the principal of its loan pay back in full ; it be an institution that be able to intervene in the economy at strategic moment . that be an idea that I think be slowly come back into fashion , but I wonder how many of our national asset have find their way into the paw of that type of offshore capital in the intervene 40 year , leave taxpayer with all of the cost , none of the benefit , and absolutely hee - haw value . that be why this Bill be essential : not only to hold this Government to account , but to shine a light on the fiscal approach of the loyal opposition . the Bill seek to end eviction for mortgage prisoner . let we do what we can to lift the burden that they have carry over the year . I know from read briefing that the Government be concerned about what they call the moral hazard of act . if these people have not already have their house repossess by 2024 , they must necessarily have keep up with their repayment , so there be a strong case for say that the moral hazard lie in the other direction — company have be deliberately string our constituent along . it be surely also natural to put a cap on the SVRs be offer to mortgage prisoner , especially give the general climate of mortgage instability . our constituent have be cope with high interest rate for over a decade , and we gain nothing from push they far into debt . of course , there will be a cost to the taxpayer in the abstract , but this move will be an investment that pay itself back through the cascade of money into our local economy , instead of into the pocket of offshore vulture fund . I be afraid that the day of balance - sheet economic need to end . finally , the Government owe it to mortgage prisoner to find a way for they to help themselves out of this mess . they should look into provide a vehicle that allow our constituent who be mortgage prisoner to pivot back into the mainstream market . the first suggestion of the report publish by the LSE be that there should be free , comprehensive financial advice for all victim — that be what they be . almost 200 , 000 people who be victim should be contact individually to help they navigate their way out of the quagmire that they find themselves in . as I say , it give I no pleasure to conclude that it appear there be nothing we can do to make up for what UK Mortgage Prisoners call the " extortionate interest rate , severe financial restriction and mobility and mental & physical issue cause by this government - make scandal . " however , that do not mean that we should not try . question put and agree to . order , that Martin Docherty - Hughes , Alison Thewliss , Liz Saville Roberts , Claire Hanna , Stewart Hosie , Ben Lake , Amy Callaghan , Sammy Wilson , John McDonnell , Duncan Baker and Caroline Lucas present the Bill . Martin Docherty - Hughes accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June , and to be print ( Bill 175 ) . way and Means Budget Resolutions - Income Tax ( Charge ) Debate resume ( Order , 7 March ) . question again propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2024 - 25 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . since 2020 , our economy , like those across the globe , have be challenge by a pandemic , a war in Ukraine and the spiral cost of energy in the aftermath of Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . we have see very difficult time for household up and down the country , but despite the most challenging economic headwind in modern history , since 2010 our growth have be high than every large european economy . economic growth underpin job , it underpin household budget and it underpin living standard . have stabilise the public finance and deliver certainty to market , my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer last week set out a plan that will ensure more investment , more job and well public service . today , I will set out how the Budget continue to support many of the sector I be proud to represent at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , particularly the creative industry , which the Chancellor last year identify as one of our five priority sector of growth . the creative industry do not just enrich our life ; they enrich the nation ' s finance , and they be an economic powerhouse . these industry be grow at twice the rate of the rest of the economy . they be responsible for over 2 million job , and they be worth £ 124 billion to our economy last year alone . I start by just recognise the UK ' s world - lead success in these industry . Netflix , Amazon Prime , Apple and Disney all want to expand their footprint here and to add " make in Britain " label to their production . " Barbie " , the high gross film of 2023 , be make not in LA , but just down the road in Leavesden , which I be delighted to visit recently with my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) . company such as Warner Bros be choose Hertfordshire over Hollywood , and that production alone contribute £ 80 million to our economy and support nearly 700 job . we have also see huge success in the indie film sector , with film such as " Rye Lane " and " Scrapper " . this success be down to huge innate british talent , hard work , skill and creative excellence across the country , but it have not happen by accident . conservative government have be support and stimulate our creative industry with tax relief for over a decade . from film to animation , video game and theatre , these tax relief have help to attract significant global investment into the UK . every year since 2012 , we have introduce tax relief to support investment and create job — tax relief that the Labour party vote against every single time . the Secretary of State talk about a number of production and studio , all of which be in the south of England . what support will the Government give to ensure that we have post - production and production facility in the north of England — for instance , by match Mayor Tracy Brabin ' s ambition to have a studio in West Yorkshire ? the Government be support creativity across the country . in June , I announce £ 50 million , which we know from experience will leverage £ 250 million of investment , for creative cluster across the UK . only recently , I be at Aviva Studios in Manchester . the £ 100 million invest in Manchester be the big investment since the Tate Modern . the hon . Member will have hear in the Chancellor ' s statement about the significant investment in Teesside , particularly in the creative industry . but the Tories have truly wreck the nation ' s public finance . under the Conservatives , debt have triple from £ 1 trillion to almost £ 2 . 6 trillion . do the Secretary of State agree that accord to respected independent statistic , despite the Chancellor ' s Budget , household in Slough and across our country will be £ 870 bad off on average under the Chancellor ' s tax plan ? the Chancellor ' s tax plan be allow people across the country to benefit from around £ 900 if they be an average earner , and we know that every time the Labour party leave office there be high unemployment . last time the Labour party be in government , it leave a note that say there be " no money leave " . let I tell the House what impact the conservative plan have deliver over the last decade . as I say , there have be tax relief in every Budget over the past 10 year , and every time they be vote down by the Labour party . the impact of that year - on - year investment be clear . statistic show that more than 1 million job in the creative industry have be create since 2010 . there have be almost a doubling of the economic value of creative industry to more than £ 124 billion since 2010 , with export up 210 % in that time . recently publish figure confirm that the sector have grow by more than 10 % since the pandemic . the conservative party be power one of our world - lead industry . the Minister be talk about the state of the nation ' s finance in 2010 , and at that point we have a national debt of £ 1 trillion . we now have a national debt of £ 2 . 6 trillion . do she think that the Conservatives have sort out the nation ' s debt when it be now almost three time high than it be ? I hope the hon . Gentleman be listen when the Chancellor deliver his Budget . he highlight that debt will be reduce next year , with the Office for Budget Responsibility forecasting that we will meet our fiscal rule to have debt fall as a share of the economy . it merit record that the debt figure we be deal with come from a £ 500 billion bail - out of the bank under Gordon Brown , £ 375 billion of quantitative easing , £ 70 billion of Brexit relief , £ 400 billion of pandemic relief , and £ 40 billion of cost of live relief . that be a significant injection of money by this Government , and the previous one , to help people through tough time . my hon . friend , as always , make an excellent point . it be difficult to forget how this Government , and the Prime Minister when he be Chancellor , support the livelihood and economy of people up and down the country . in the creative industry alone , a covid recovery fund of £ 1 . 57 billion go to ensure that those industry continue to survive . the International Monetary Fund and other say that that be the fast and most effective package come out of covid . I welcome what the Government be do for the creative industry in Northern Ireland . the Northern Ireland film sector have be grow leap and bound over the past few year . the extra help that the Government be put forward for creative industry in Northern Ireland will undoubtedly create more job and a boost for the economy . I welcome what the Secretary of State be put forward . now that the Northern Ireland Assembly be up and run again , can contact be make with the relevant Minister to see how we can grow the industry even more ? I be delighted that the Northern Ireland Executive be up and run , and keen to continue engagement with they to ensure that we continue to boost the economy in Northern Ireland . our creative industry be not just life enhance and entertaining , and they be not just part of our personal and national identity ; they be an economic powerhouse that be dominate the world stage . in the past year , we have build on the huge success of the decade of investment that I speak about with an industry - lead sector vision that set out a plan to unlock £ 50 billion of growth , 1 million more job and a pipeline of talent by 2030 . both the Chancellor and the Prime Minister recognise that the way we will extend our excellence long into the future be with sustained investment and commitment to those sector . that be why the Budget that the Chancellor set out last week continue that support and build on that recognition with a package of measure to cement our status as a cultural superpower . member should not just take my word for it . the relief announce represent a " once - in - a - generation transformational change that will ensure Britain remain the global capital of creativity " , accord to Lord Lloyd Webber . they include " the most significant policy intervention since the 1990s " , accord to Ben Roberts , the chief executive of the British Film Institute . they be " game change " accord to " James Bond " producer Barbara Broccoli . those people be all correct . there will be £ 1 billion in additional tax relief for the creative industry over the next five year . we have set permanent high rate of cultural tax relief : of 45 % for tour and 40 % for non - tour theatre production and gallery exhibition , and of 45 % for all orchestra production . there be a new 53 % tax credit for UK independent film with budget of under £ 15 million , a 40 % tax relief on business rate for film studio , and an increase tax relief for the visual effect sector . there be £ 26 . 4 million for the National Theatre to modernise its stage and new funding for an extension of the National Film and Television School . the funding and tax break will unlock huge investment in our economy , secure the long - term future of some of our great cultural institution and help we build a pipeline of talent for the future . we be only five day on from the Budget and the measure be pay dividend already . later this year , the filming of " Jurassic World 4 " will begin at Sky ' s Elstree studio . as Sir William Sargent , chief executive of the visual effect company Framestore , say , it be likely that our decision to remove the 80 % cap on what production can claim on visual effect have stop the visual effect for " Jurassic World 4 " from be make abroad . that be our long - term plan for growth , and it be deliver growth within day of the Budget . however , our ambition rightly stretch far beyond our world - class creative industry . at the last autumn statement , the Chancellor unveil 119 growth measure which , take together , could raise business investment by around £ 20 billion per year in a decade ' s time . he have follow that up with a Budget design to deliver an economic gear shift for business across different industry — from life science , to manufacturing , to AI . there be over £ 270 million of combined Government and industry investment into cutting - edge automotive and aerospace R & D project . there be grant of £ 92 million of joint government and industry investment into the life science and up to £ 100 million in the Alan Turing Institute , our national institute for AI and data science , over the next five year . there be strategic investment design to unlock growth and propel our economy forward . these long - term decision will place we at the vanguard of these pioneering industry of the future , where we belong . the Government recognise how hard the last few year have be on people ' s and family ' finance . that be why the Prime Minister set five clear and unambiguous priority , consistent with those of people across the country who have battle with the rise cost of living . the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the entire Cabinet have be laser focus on those priority , and we have make significant progress in deliver on they . rise — I be very happy to give way . the Secretary of State speak about tax relief and long - term decision , but thank to this government we now have the high tax burden since the second world war . will she confirm the Office for National Statistics figure show seven consecutive quarter of fall in GDP per capita since 2022 ? do she agree that that be the long period of stagnation since the 1950 ? the hon . Member make a number of point . on taxis , we be stick with the plan , which be to get taxis down . we be do that by yet again reduce national insurance contribution . there be reduction for 29 million people and tax cut for 27 million work people from April . he mention the tax - to - gdp ratio , where the UK tax system remain competitive : we have a low tax - to - gdp ratio than any other european country in the G7 . Germany ' s be at 39 . 3 % , France ' s be at 46 . 1 % and Italy ' s be at 42 . 9 % , base on 2022 figure . on tax cutting , there have always be a social contract in this country by which people pay national insurance until they become of pensionable age , and then they do not pay national insurance . therefore , cut in national insurance do not help pensioner , and in particular aspiring pensioner , who have put something aside . what I would like to know from the Secretary of State — I see alongside her the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , who say this change might take decade — be what be the long - term plan to protect pensioner ? national insurance can not just be abolish and replace with nothing . it can only be replace with high tax , from which pensioner do not benefit . my right hon . friend know that we want to reduce taxis on work people . it be not right that they have double taxation . he will also know about the importance of protect pensioner , which be why , throughout our time in government , we have protect they , with one of the key way of do that be through the triple lock . I will highlight the progress make on the five priority that the Chancellor and the Prime Minister set out some time ago . debt be fall in line with our fiscal rule , inflation have halve and growth be a full 1 . 5 percentage point high than predict . that have only be possible because of the decision take by this Government , such as put an average of £ 900 back into the pocket of 27 million worker in the space of four month . there be furth to go , and the Budget will help we get there , create more success story like our creative industry across our economy and across the entire United Kingdom . while the Labour party snipe aimlessly and endlessly from the sideline , we be target funding where it be need most . while the Labour party talk the economy and indeed the rest of the country down , we be back work family and british business with tax cut and tax break . while the Labour party u - turn on its u - turn , we be put our economy on track for new job , new growth and new investment . the Conservative Government have a plan , and that plan be work . I commend the Budget to the House . I call the shadow Health and Social Care Secretary . I would have raise this as a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , but , give that we be here , before I get right to the heart of the debate , I want to place on the record the revulsion that Opposition Members feel at Frank Hester , a conservative party donor who have give more than £ 10 million to the party in the last year , say of the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) that she make he " want to hate all black woman " and that she " should be shoot " . that be utterly revolt , racist and inciteful language , which have no place in our politic and public life . give the vast sum that he have give not just to the conservative party but to the Prime Minister , if they have any integrity whatsoever , they will give every single penny piece back and apologise to the right hon . member for those appalling comment . I be sure that , at some point in the debate , those on the Treasury Bench will want to confirm both those thing . turn to the Budget , the Government have sum up what be obvious to everyone in Britain : 14 year of conservative incompetence have break Britain ' s economy . it be all there in black and white . the economy be back in recession . we have the high tax burden in 70 year , a record tax - raise Parliament , wage low today than in 2010 and household bad off than at the last election . we have a fall in living standard over an entire Parliament for the first time in history . from next month , we have a real - term cut per person in NHS funding , when the NHS be go through the bad crisis in its history . what do this Budget contribute to that appalling record ? we have " million of low and middle - income worker be drag into pay high tax . and unprecedented level of low - wage , low - skilled migration be damage the economy . the government could have fix both problem today but do not . " that be not my conclusion , but the word of the former Home Secretary and next leader of the Conservative party , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) . will the hon . member give way ? I be sure the hon . member would like to leap to defend the current leader or his future leader — which be it ? the shadow Secretary of State underplay the strength of the british economy , with record employment and an unemployment rate one third below the EU average . I put this to he : the tax take be high than we on the conservative Benches would like , but the key reason be that in the pandemic , it cost a lot to make sure we leave nobody behind . we have one of the most generous furlough scheme in the western world , for example . would he have do anything differently ? we have never doubt the challenge that the pandemic have place on the public finance or our public service , but that do not explain the fundamental weakness of the british economy go into the pandemic or the fact that NHS waiting list be at record level before the pandemic . nevertheless , it be good to see the conservative party at least acknowledge that major crisis do have an impact on public finance . I thank my hon . friend for give way , and I also thank the hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) for his intervention about what happen during the covid crisis . do my hon . friend agree that we would have have a lot more money for our public finance , for more doctor and nurse , if the Conservative Government have not be busy hand out billion of pound ' worth of contract to their friend and chum ? that be one of the reason we need a covid corruption commissioner . [ interruption . ] do my hon . friend agree that the Chancellor fail to announce a covid corruption commissioner during his Budget ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and Government Members should not groan at he for raise a problem ; they should be outrage at the misuse of public money . they should be as appal as we be that in the midst of a national crisis , when so many people rush to danger or play their part in a national response — those business that shift from their normal activity to try to help , genuinely do the right thing for the right reason — there be other at the same time who seek to use the pandemic to make a quick buck at our expense . it be disgusting , and the fact that so many billion of pound of personal protective equipment be waste — much of it literally go up in smoke — should exercise all of we . voter can make their own judgment on why the conservative party be still so relaxed about that profligacy , waste and fraud . I accept the point that the hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) make about the importance and impact of financial event , because a narrative be spin after the 2010 general election about the global financial crisis . the conservative love to say it be all the fault of the last Labour Government , but I have bad news for they : the former Chancellor of the Exchequer — I have well name he , as there have be so many — George Osborne be talk recently in his excellent podcast about the late , great Alistair Darling , and he say : " in the financial crisis , he be the Chancellor of the Exchequer , who earn a lot of trust with the way he handle that crisis . " of course , it be politically expedient for the conservative party at the time to pretend that the economy be go through so many challenge because a Labour Government have bail out the bank , but when present with a crisis , you do the right thing . we do the right thing then , and we would do the right thing in the future when present with crisis , as we expect this Government to do . in fact , we engage with the Government in good faith throughout that crisis . we never imagine that people would use vip lane to rip off the british taxpayer . that be why , if she be the next Chancellor of the Exchequer , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) will go after those people to get that money back . we do not doubt her determination to do so . the Budget be pitch as the Tories ' last roll of the dice before the general election . it be mean to be the one to bamboozle the Opposition and wow the public , but instead of start the campaign with a bang , they be go out with barely a whimper . it be mean to bring million of voter who have abandon the conservative party back into the tent . instead , it have drive the former deputy chairman of the conservative party out of the tent all together . after 14 year of Conservative Government , conservative mp be leave because , to quote the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) : " you can ' t get a police officer to turn up to your house when it get burgle … people be pull their own tooth out , you can ' t get a GP appointment . " what a damn indictment of the conservative party from a man who this Prime Minister choose to elevate to one of the high office in that party . the claw come out as soon as today ' s defection be announce , but they be not aim at the hon . member for Ashfield — no , conservative mp be beg he to come back . they have tell " Channel 4 News " : " the fact Rishi promote he to Deputy Chairman and tell you all you need to know about his judgment . " even conservative mp admit in private that the Prime Minister be too weak to run his own party , let alone the country . as Lord Lloyd - Webber might have write if he be script a new musical for the Conservative party , they be past the point of no return and look to Boris Johnson , say " wish you be somehow here again . " I have to give credit where it be due : this be a Budget so bad that it have do what be previously unthinkable : it have unite the war faction of the conservative party . they be unite in agreement that it be a disaster . before the Chancellor stand up , the leader of what be leave of the scottish Conservatives have already announce his opposition to it , soon follow by the Energy Minister , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , who exclaim his deep disappointment with his Government ' s own energy tax . then , the Security Minister , the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) and a Foreign Minister , the right hon . member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , write a joint article oppose the Chancellor ' s lack of investment in defence . the Energy Minister do not support the energy policy ; Foreign and Security Ministers do not support the defence policy , and even the Chancellor say that he do not support the tax rise that he be impose on work people . it beg the question : be there anyone leave who believe in what this government be do ? Government Members should feel free to intervene and leap to the Government ' s defence but , sadly , they agree . the Chancellor name several member in his speech , presumably on the basis that misery love company . I wonder if even the member who make their way on to the Chancellor ' s list of the damned will defend this Government ' s dismal record . I extend an invitation to they early today , but they have not show up . I be sure that they be busy back in the office or in their constituency write leaflet extoll how great the Budget be . twenty - five mp who will not be extoll how wonderful it be be the New Conservatives . the 25 conservative mp who support that organisation say : " we can not pretend any long that ' the plan be work ' . we need to change course urgently . " do my hon . friend question , as I do , whether those 25 mp who want to change course urgently will vote for this Budget ? if they will , how can they possibly suggest that they be change course ? who know ? I must confess I do not even know who the New Conservatives be , there be so many war tribe and family involve every week . it be a level of reproduction that even the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson fail to match . turn to the list of the damned who make their way into the Chancellor ' s Budget speech , the hon . member for Dudley North ( Marco Longhi ) be identify as push the Government to give into the shadow Chancellor ' s call to cancel their plan rise in fuel duty . where Labour lead , the Tories follow . I wonder if he will defend his government make pensioner in Dudley £ 1 , 000 a year bad off . the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) be single out by the Chancellor . do she think her constituent earn £ 15 , 000 a year will forgive she for vote to pinch an extra £ 580 from their pocket in tax rise ? rise — she do ! she want to defend the Chancellor and her fingerprint on the Budget . the hon . Gentleman seem to be take the wrong tone with my constituent . be overly political with each other be not something we practice , and he would know that if he speak to my Labour opponent in Truro and Falmouth . the Chancellor single I out because we have work very hard across Cornwall to remove advantage for short - term holiday let ; that be all . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that intervention . I do not think that that alter the fact that there be 60 , 000 people on the NHS waiting list in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly . I be sorry if she take issue with my tone , but the simple truth be this : however much the conservative party try to build the idea that politic can not change anything — that there be no point in voting , that we be all the same and that there will not be any change with a change of Government after the next general election — politic do make a difference and voting can change thing . I cite in evidence the fact that when Labour leave office we have the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in the history of the NHS . I cite in evidence that if we have economic growth under this Government at the rate we have growth under the previous Labour Government , there would be £ 40 billion extra to invest in our public service without have to raise taxis on anyone . that be Labour ' s record . it be a record we be proud to defend . conservative Members can not defend their record — they have no record . do my hon . friend agree that we have to have measure to improve and boost our economy ? be it not disappointing that there be nothing about commercial trial for pharmaceutical company in the Budget ? on trial , we have fall from fourth to 10th in the world , lose 44 % between 2007 and 2017 - 18 , and 50 , 000 a year between 2021 and 2022 . without those trial we will not only see a lack of money , but a lack of improvement in cancer outcome . I strongly agree with my hon . friend . we should not be complacent about that , because slip down international league table be not just a miss opportunity , but a miss chance to save life , improve outcome and generate income for our national health service . everyone win when we have our national health service and life science sector work together in partnership to ensure we be develop the late treatment and technology in this country , to ensure we be manufacture those treatment and technology in this country , and to ensure patient get the benefit in this country . should Labour win the next general election , I have no doubt that she and I will do a great deal together to improve outcome , particularly in relation to brain cancer , which we be both passionate about — not least because of the late great Margaret McDonagh , who remain an inspiration to we all — but also in so many other area where that kind of groundbreake science have the potential to improve our economy and save life . rise — I will certainly give way to the former Minister . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . I be enjoy his knockabout speech , but do he welcome the £ 650 million package we put out last spring to reverse the covid damage to life science , and , more importantly , do he respect the way that several of we have pursue this issue in a non - partisan way ? the sector need to know we be work together . I invite he to say that he intend to build on that legacy and continue to keep it as a sector that go beyond politic . I certainly give the former Minister this assurance : where the Government have have good idea and where the life science strategy be in the right place , we do not intend to tear thing up just because there be conservative fingerprint . indeed , we welcome aspect of review the Government have undertake — particularly that conduct by Lord O ' Shaughnessy , and we welcome the Government ' s commitment to implement it in full — but there be more to do . I remain frustrated that when I talk to UK life science , in particular start - up and medtech entrepreneur , they describe the NHS in pretty poor term as a partner . that culture and practice must change . indicate assent . I can see the former Minister nod emphatically . even amidst this rowdy Budget debate , we have manage to achieve some consensus . of course , the hon . Gentleman be very welcome to join we on the Labour Benches should he wish to help we in the task . the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Brendan Clarke - Smith ) be another Member who will be absolutely delighted to have his fingerprint on the Budget . how will he explain to his constituent , get by on £ 20 , 000 a year , that he be an architect of the Budget that will leave they pay £ 447 more in tax this year ? they will all walk through the Lobby to raise taxis on work people , but they will not defend their decision in the House . it be no surprise that the Conservatives be ashamed of what they have do to the country . Fred Thomas , Labour ' s candidate in Plymouth , Moor View , tell I about Izzy Cioffi . Izzy leave the Royal Marines last year after eight year of service . he have be work hard as a telecom engineer , in a good job which a few year ago would have enable he to get by and even put some money aside each month . he want to train for a commercial diving qualification , but the cost of all his basic — fuel , food , mortgage and energy bill — have rise so much that he can not afford to put any money aside . this be a young man with no dependant , in a good job . he should have his entire future before he , but the state of the economy be hold he back from opportunity . that be the cost of what people in the country be call " Rishi ' s recession " . what about the Conservatives ' record on non - dom ? we know that Conservative Members do not support the abolition of non - dom tax status , because they have be tell we so for the past decade . the howl of protest from the Benches opposite be deafen from the moment Labour first propose what be a simple policy and principle — that people who live and work in Britain should pay their taxis here too . the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) say that it would be " anti - aspirational " . if only he have as much aspiration for our NHS and schoolchildren as he have for people avoid their taxis . his constituent will remember that he fight for non - dom , not nurse . in stark contrast , Labour ' s candidate Lucy Rigby , whose mum work in the NHS , be commit to get the NHS in Northampton back on its foot and fit for the future . that be the choice that voter in Northampton face . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) suggest that the money raise would drop year on year , as non - dom would leave the country . why do he have so little faith in Britain ? why do he think that the only reason people would want to live in this country be to avoid pay taxis ? if he can not see that Stoke - on - Trent have so much more go for it than non - dom tax status , I suggest that his constituent might prefer an MP who have some pride in his city and some pride in his country , and elect David Williams at the general election . during the election campaign , when the Conservatives be tour the broadcast studio to criticise labour ' s plan , we must never forget that the Chancellor say that abolish the non - dom tax status would not benefit the taxpayer , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities say that it would lead to " talent flight " , the Health Secretary say that it would put 230 , 000 nurse at risk and put in jeopardy Britain ' s place as the film location for the " Barbie " movie , and the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Lewes ( Maria Caulfield ) , say that it be " as much use as an ashtray on a motorbike . " — [ Official Report , 28 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 710 . ] now each and every one of they be prepare to vote for Labour ' s plan . the bright glow come from the red - faced Members opposite be blind . we must never forget that they criticise our policy , they criticise our costing , they have adopt our policy and they have adopt our costing . they do not have any credibility leave . the fact that the Conservatives have finally relent be further evidence that Labour be win the battle of idea again today . never again can the Conservatives claim with a straight face that Labour do not have a plan . they would not have the first idea what to do if they do not have our plan to pinch . in fact , it seem to I that the Labour party have replace the Institute of Economic Affairs as the Conservatives ' most influential and favour think - tank . look at the impact that we be have on Government policy . labour ' s NHS workforce plan : nick . labour ' s plan to recruit dentist to the most under - serve area : nick . labour ' s plan for a progressive ban on tobacco : nick . labour ' s plan for a windfall tax on oil and gas giant : nick . and now Labour ' s plan to abolish the non - dom tax status : nick . if the Conservatives be so desperate to see labour ' s manifesto implement , they should just call a general election . I would not want my hon . friend to miss out the consultation on ban water boss ' bonus , which be also nick from we . the list be inexhaustible , be it not ? it be just one thing after another , and then they have the audacity to say that Labour do not have any plan . if that be true , why be they swoop in like magpie every five minute , ready to pick the next cherry from Labour ' s tree ? it be just a shame that the Conservatives do not see the light early . have they abolish non - dom tax status when Labour pledge to do so in 2022 , 4 . 5 million child could be enjoy free breakfast club today . they could have fund an extra 3 . 6 million NHS appointment and operation , hundred more artificial intelligence - enable scanner , and 1 . 3 million more urgent and emergency dental appointment . the Prime Minister would have deliver on his pledge to cut waiting list , if only he have listen to Labour . what stop he ? why be the Prime Minister so wed to the non - dom tax status ? the hon . Gentleman have mention schoolchildren a couple of time in pass . it be hugely disappointing to I that there be absolutely nothing in last week ' s Budget about school or college . today ' s theme be grow our economy , which start in our classroom . invest in education be an investment in this country ' s economy and society for generation to come , yet there be nothing for day - to - day spending , even though school in my constituency and across the country be have to make cut every day . shockingly , the small print reveal that next year we will see a real - term cut of £ 200 million in capital investment in school building , while hundred of thousand of child learn in crumble classroom . do he agree that the Conservatives have no clue about grow the economy if they will not focus on child and young people ? I agree with the hon . member . politic be about choice , which be why we choose to end the tax break enjoy by private school , which be attend by the 7 % , in order to fund more teacher and education for the 93 % . the Conservatives have not nick that policy yet — it could be any day now — but it do say something about choice . there be something else that I find really gall . when the government appoint Sir Kevan Collins as their catch - up commissioner , they could not have find someone well to advise on education , life chance and how to correct the obvious damage that have be do to child ' s education as a result of successive lockdown . Most of we in this House — on both side — feel that the lockdown be necessary , give the scale of the virus , but we ought collectively to acknowledge that there be a consequence and a debt to be repay to that generation . when Sir Kevan Collins publish his report , which be commission by the Government , the Prime Minister decide that he could not do any more . if the Prime Minister ' s child attend state school and he understand the challenge that such school be face with recruiting teacher and provide the wide range of extra - curricular opportunity that so many independent school offer , I wonder whether the Prime Minister would have make the same political choice — or be it just for other people ' s child that this Prime Minister and his Government have low aspiration ? I think it be fair to say that we know why the Prime Minister be so wed to the non - dom tax status . in fact , the only way the Chancellor could have upset his neighbour more be if he have raise taxis on helicopter ride and heated swimming pool too . but at least the Prime Minister can now look the british people in the eye and honestly tell they that we be all in this together . in fact , we have to pity poor non - dom — they can not even look to their friend , or indeed their husband , in the conservative party to defend they any long . nor can pensioner , incidentally , because 8 million pensioner will see their taxis increase as a result of this Chancellor ' s decision . I do not think that be right or just , and I do not think people will forget it come the general election . I turn to the Prime Minister and how he evaluate his own performance . at a Wetherspoons in Maltby last week , he tell the public that at the start of this year we " turn a corner . " he be right : at the start of this year the economy turn the corner from flatline and enter recession . Rishi ' s recession be take a heavy toll on work people . labour ' s candidate for Rother Valley , Jake Richards , tell I about John from Maltby , who live just down the road from what be probably the first ' spoon the Prime Minister have ever be in . John be a veteran of our armed force . he serve his country and now , thank to the recklessness and incompetence of this government , he can not make end meet . that be the price that people be pay , and it be why this country be cry out for change . have crash the economy just two year ago , the conservative party be at it again with a £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan . can any Conservative Member explain how on earth they be go to pay for the abolition of national insurance ? this be a big unfunded commitment than the " kamikwasi " Budget of the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . mortgage payer be still pay the price for that grotesque act of economic self - harm , and the Conservatives be at it again — rise — I hope that the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) can tell we why . this be great knockabout stuff , but I would like to make a serious comment on the whole national insurance thing . with the retention of the triple lock and with fiscal drag , more and more pensioner be be drag into pay tax . I understand that the Labour party will support the cut in national insurance rather than in income tax , so what be its long - term plan ? the right hon . Member make a right and fair point early about the cut to national insurance and what be happen to pensioner ' income at the moment , but the Government ' s long - term plan be totally unfunded . they can not tell we how they will fund it or when it will be deliver by . I be happy to give way if anyone want to correct I on that , as I be sure the whole country would like an explanation on this £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan . we can not have a situation where once again the conservative party get away with an entirely unfunded gimmick . we see where that lead our country before , and Labour will not play fast and loose with the public finance in the way that the Conservatives have — [ Laughter . ] it be no use laugh . I be amazed that Conservative Members still laugh when people ' s mortgage be go up month after month . they still have the audacity to laugh at their recklessness and not take responsibility for their mistake . the hon . Gentleman invite an intervention to clarify his position on national insurance . I wonder whether , rather than engage in this knockabout , which I be rather enjoy — he be terribly good at it , by the way — he could answer the direct question from my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . if Labour be go to support this change to national insurance , how do the hon . Gentleman reconcile that support with what he have just say ? it be a straightforward question . it be that we have once again win the argument . we have be argue for some time that taxis on work people be too high . they have go up time and again under this Conservative Government , and it be only because there be a general election around the corner that they have suddenly discover a heart , and discover Labour ' s policy and raid our cabinet . until now , the Conservatives have use work people as their first and last resort to raise money . whenever we have talk about fair choice — whether on non - dom , on the oil and gas giant , on the carry profit loophole , or on the tax exemption enjoy by private school — we get a howl of opposition from the Conservatives , tell we how difficult it be : " oh , that win ' t work , it win ' t raise the revenue , it ' s not fair , it ' s so harsh on all these people . " they never say that about the people on low and middle income who be be absolutely clobber . they never say that about the people who lie awake at night worry about how they be go to pay their bill , do the shopping and pay their rent or their mortgage . pick the pocket of work people be the first and last result of this Conservative Government , and it be only because there be an election around the corner and Labour be chomp at their heel that they have finally discover the cost of living crisis . my hon . friend be right to pick up on this unfunded £ 46 billion proposal to scrap national insurance . just a quick glance on the gov . uk website show , under the heading " what National Insurance be for " , that it be for : " Basic State Pension , Additional State Pension , New State Pension , New Style Jobseeker ' s Allowance , contribution - base Employment and Support Allowance , Maternity Allowance , Bereavement Support Payment " . if that £ 46 billion be go , how will all these be pay for ? my hon . Friend ask an excellent question , and it be one that the Government will have to answer , because we be not have this double standard in politic . if the Labour party have announce unfunded commitment of this kind , the Conservatives would be the first to howl and complain , and it would be the question confront every Labour spokesperson on every broadcast platform and every national newspaper . this be the question that should be level at the Government , because this be not just hypothetical recklessness ; we have see where the Conservatives ' ideological recklessness lead our country , through a disastrous mini - Budget , for which they have never apologise , never take responsibility and apparently never learn the lesson . it be a disgrace . if the money be not come from the source that my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) suggest , in term of pension and support , let we bear in mind the scale of £ 46 billion . it be a quarter of the NHS budget . be that where the money for abolish national insurance will come from ? the Government would have to close 130 hospital and sack 96 , 000 nurse , 37 , 000 doctor and 7 , 000 GPs . will these cut be evenly spread across the country , or will they just shut down the NHS in the west midland and Yorkshire , leave the rest of the country untouched ? they be very welcome to tell we when this policy will be introduce , how they will fund it and where the cut or the alternative tax rise will come from , because we will hound they with these question every day of the general election campaign . some of that £ 46 billion could have be allocate to compensation payment for those affect by infected blood . do the hon . Gentleman share my concern that the Budget do not mention infected blood and that those who be impact feel very frustrated and very angry at the Government ' s delay in deal with the issue ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who bring I to the next section of my speech . infected blood be another crucial detail miss from the Budget . where be the compensation for the victim of the contaminated blood scandal ? the Prime Minister acknowledge that this be an appalling tragedy , and he promise that he will speed up the award of compensation . Sir Brian Langstaff give final recommendation on compensation in April 2023 , almost an entire year ago . why can the Prime Minister act quickly to help the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology with her legal fee but drag his foot when it come to help the poor victim of this scandal ? we should be in no doubt that the Chancellor allocate no money and have not leave enough headroom in his Budget to meet the level of compensation likely to be require , so what be his plan ? be he go to break his fiscal rule or break his promise to the victim ? which be it ? it be not a hypothetical question , and I think people would like an answer from the Government on the contaminated blood scandal . we have hear the warm word and we have hear the commitment . in fact , the Prime Minister say he be act speedily . I would love to see he in snail mode , but this be serious . People be die without compensation . the Government be now float the idea of an autumn general election , bottle it on a 2 May general election . be they seriously say that this will drag on into the autumn for a new Government to pick up the piece ? that be what it look like to I , and I think it be shameful . give everything the Chancellor have say about this scandal , and give his role as this country ' s long - serve Secretary of State for Health under this Conservative Government , I think it be a real shame on he . finally , I turn to the NHS . in announce the productivity review , the Chancellor admit something that Labour have be argue for some time , that the Conservatives have fail to reform our public service and that they have hike taxis on work people , waste taxpayer ' money and deliver poor service . in short , under the Conservatives we be pay more and get less . now the Chancellor want we to trust the arsonist to put out the fire they start . the Chancellor promise a crackdown on agency spend : " for too long staffing agency have be able to rip off the NHS by charge extortionate hourly rate which cost billion of pound a year and undermine staff work hard to deliver high - quality care . the tough new control on spend that we ' re put in place will help the NHS improve continuity of care for patient and invest in the frontline — while put an end to the day of unscrupulous company charge up to £ 3 , 500 a shift for a doctor . " I agree with every word he say , but it be not from the Budget speech . it be from a speech in 2015 , nine year ago , when he be Health Secretary . what have change ? last year the NHS spend £ 3 . 5 billion on agency staff — £ 5 , 200 for a single doctor ' s shift . the taxpayer be get rip off bad than ever before , because the Chancellor refuse to train the doctor and nurse our NHS need . just last year , the Conservatives pour an extra £ 400 million into agency staff . why ? because they have force NHS doctor and nurse out on the bad strike the NHS have ever see , and the Budget confirm that they have no plan to end this chaos . the truth be that the Prime Minister would much rather blame poor performance on NHS staff than the abysmal failure of 14 year of conservative government . the Chancellor promise new artificial intelligence technology for the NHS . we will add that to the long list of Labour ' s plan that the Government be adopt . this be a man who promise in 2013 that the NHS would go paperless . four year later — I be not joke — he say : " I be quite relieved that most people seem to have forget that I make that promise . " well , the country have not forget that record . it be 2024 and the NHS still run on pager , fax machine and paper record . the Chancellor ' s failure leave the NHS with the long waiting list and the low patient satisfaction in history . now the butcher of the NHS be back , and he want five more year to finish the job . the hon . member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) be name and shame by the Chancellor as play a role in draft the Budget . the question be : where be the plan to cut NHS waiting list ? there be 125 , 000 patient wait in Leicestershire , so why do she not ask the Chancellor for something to help her constituent who need treatment today ? the last Labour Government deliver the short waiting time and high patient satisfaction in NHS history . we do it through investment and reform . we do it before , and we will do it again . at the next general election , the question that people across Britain will ask be : after 14 year of conservative government , be they and their family well off ? be our public service well off ? in fact , be anything work well today than it do 14 year ago ? let I help they out : one institution be work well than at any point in the past 14 year , and that be the Labour party . it be the only party with a plan to deliver Britain out of the mess that the Government have make . it be the only party that have a strong leader , with a united party behind he . if the magpie on the conservative Benches be look for more plan to adopt before their time run out , they could adopt our planning reform to get Britain build again ; our industrial strategy , which see Government and business work hand in hand to get our economy grow again ; our national wealth fund to harness investment in the green job of the future ; our plan to switch on GB Energy , in order to invest in our energy security ; our plan to insulate 5 million home , bring down household energy bill for good ; our plan to get Britain back to work , because we understand that we can build a healthy economy only with a healthy society ; and our plan to get million off NHS waiting list , back in work and free to live their life to the full . we will have 2 million more appointment a year , at evening and weekend , to cut waiting list ; we will double the number of AI - enable scanner in our NHS to diagnose people fast ; we will have 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment a year , and reform the NHS dentistry contract ; we will have 8 , 500 more mental health professional , with a community mental health hub in every community and mental health support in every primary and secondary school in the country . that be what a plan for growth look like . it be a plan for the NHS , too . that be what the Budget would have look like if Labour be in office and the shadow Chancellor be sit in the Treasury . that be the change our country need . it be time for a general election , so that we can put the british people out of their misery and have a Labour Government who can give Britain its future back . rise — before I call the first speaker from the Back Benches , I inform the House that we have 32 speaker in this debate , so I advise member to confine their speech to six or seven minute , certainly to start with . that would be extremely helpful in ensure that we get everyone in . I call Sir Bill Wiggin . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will keep this as brief as I can . this Budget demonstrate the decision that the Government have take since 2010 that have allow 800 job to be create every day for 14 year — and there be a self - respect that people get with a job . the furlough scheme protect 11 . 7 million of those job . Job creation and preservation mean that we do not need to take away money from public service to deliver tax cut to hard - work people . it also show that the Conservatives can be trust with public money , and will reverse high taxis on the individual , while spend record amount on public service . 5 . that be take back control of our money . the Budget include £ 2 . 45 billion for the NHS for 2025 , which will help to cut waiting time . I visit Hereford County Hospital a fortnight ago . the chief executive proudly outline some of the hospital ' s achievement , include a new diagnostic centre and a planned training suite — part of the transformation to improve staff training in Hereford , as well as ensure well outcome for patient . it be not a message of misery at all . however , the NHS should continue to focus on staff training . More training place have be create at the University of Worcester . have highly train staff increase performance and reduce the need for agency staff , which be the cost we should focus on . perhaps the NHS need golden handcuff . Healthcare professional work in a global market , so the taxpayer , who train new entrant , ought to have some hope of payback post graduation , and entrant should be discourage from relocate elsewhere , such as Canada . speak of waiting list , perhaps GPs should be pay accord to the number of people they see . the system be currently base on the number of patient on the book . there be a guideline for the amount of time the GP should spend with each patient , but doctor understand that people sometimes need considerably long . I do not think recommend that they see only 25 patient a day be the way forward . in Herefordshire , GPs believe they could be pay accord to the number of people they see . I hope the Minister will pilot such a scheme to prove that waiting list can be cut by primary care activity , although we will have to pay for that extra effort . in 2023 , the number of small boat arrival be 36 % less than the year before , and there be 17 % less asylum application , so the plan be work . we should be think about reduce the cost of border enforcement and the cost of process asylum claim . in Leominster , the Talbot Hotel be no long be use to house asylum seeker . I have write to the local authority state my support for the compulsory purchase of that hotel and the Royal Oak to boost local tourism . we need to see our hotel fill with tourist who pay to visit . we should look carefully at the issue of pay the French to stop the crossing . we have pledge million to support that , but when the Rwanda scheme be under way , it should deter crossing ; perhaps we will not need to pay the money to the French . we must ensure that the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be pass . I be dismay to learn that Labour peer block the Bill . some 64 migrant have die in the english channel since 2018 . every day that go by be another day someone could die in the channel . if the Lords continue to block the Bill , the House should consider look at element of the Human Rights Act . I wonder how their Lordships will feel — or indeed how asylum applicant will feel — as migrant drown . human right be not much use if you be dead , so it be important that we deliver on the will of the people by stop the boat . we do not need to leave the European Court of Human Rights , but we do need to say that we will no long allow illegal channel crosser to be eligible for asylum . the ECHR can sle we out if it want , but I do not believe that it will , just as it do not when we stop prisoner vote . we need to protect innocent asylum seeker from be put at risk by people trafficker before more life be lose . on agriculture and the environment , english farmer be sore , but not in the same way as Welsh , belgian , dutch or french farmer , or all the EU farmer who blockade EU building and burn bale on the motorway . we need to support british farmer through tax break instead of grant . the recent announcement of a £ 427 million grant for farming be welcome , but tax break be a more efficient and well tool for food production . such grant do not allow farmer to buy the second - hand machinery they want , but tax break do . we could save more money by merge the Environment Agency and Natural England . those organisation be responsible for a great deal of pressure on the mental health of farmer . we need to look at their scope and cut the number of suicide in agriculture . in my constituency , there have be six such suicide . on average , there be three suicide in the agricultural industry each week . that be far too high , so take the pressure off farmer would be a tremendous step forward . I be delighted by the 8 . 5 % increase for pension to match the triple lock . we need clever pension policy that cover not just old age , but care . we need to think about the way we pay the state pension and ensure that it be not tax . we need to look at the furnished holiday let tax break too , because holiday let cause a great deal of unrest in the countryside . we understand insurance , pension , care and funding , but do not seem to be able to manage the whole lot when we put they together . we need to do well as we get old to deliver on all our ambition to help our child , to save money in case we need long - term care , and to deliver peace of mind to pensioner worry about those challenge . on transport , the Government ' s recent reallocation of fund from High Speed 2 have be a resounding success ; it be an example of the Government ' s plan work . in Herefordshire alone , we have receive £ 106 million in additional funding for road resurfacing , and £ 101 million for local transport . that funding have be reallocate from HS2 , which people could be forgive for forget that I vote against in 2013 . this show how public fund can be use strategically to deliver public good without increase the tax burden . I have have my allocation of time . the Government have do a great deal of good , reverse the damage that covid do . inflation , the cost of living and national insurance be down . only electricity supplier , such as Scottish Power , continue to prey on people ; I hope Ofgem will investigate that . if we be united and stick together , we can show that our plan be work , and that there be a bright future for we all . I be begin to wonder if some people in this place live on the same planet as the rest of we . be they receive the same casework ? be their constituent face with the same problem ? I have be an elect representative work in public service for nearly 17 year , and the situation be absolutely the bad I have ever see . People come into our surgery at the absolute end of their tether — they can not cope anymore . there be nowhere else they can turn , so they come to their MP , which sometimes take a lot of courage . we can not offer they any optimism ; there be no light at the end of the tunnel . the Budget be an opportunity for the Chancellor to improve the cost of living crisis , but he do not take that opportunity . he do not see the problem that so many people be face . the Budget have come on the back of the damage of Brexit , 14 year of austerity and last year ' s horrific , disastrous mini - Budget , which far destroy the economy . the Chancellor look at the stat and think that it be a good idea to talk about they . he say , " oh look , since the last forecast , thing have get well . " of course they have get well since then ; the last forecast be in the aftermath of the total disaster of the mini - Budget . by the way , people who be in ministerial role at that time get severance payment . they come in , trash the economy and then leave with a hefty £ 18 , 000 in their pocket to spend . it be completely shocking that we be in that situation . member of the Government party keep talk about tax . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that tax as a share of GDP be nearly at a post - war high . the Minister can say all she like about comparison with other country , but a near post - war high be a pretty damn indictment for a party that be talk about how important it be to reduce tax . [ interruption . ] if the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) want to intervene on I he can do so , but if he care very much about the tax system and try to make a difference to people ' s live , he would ensure that local authority in England be not raise council tax by 4 . 99 % . he would freeze council tax for people . he will have look at the national insurance change and think to himself , " how do these change work ? they be well . they give more money to people who make more money . " that would not have be my choice of priority . Scotland be not the highest tax part of the UK . if we look at business rate , council tax and all the different taxis that people pay , and at our starter rate for the low earner , it be incredibly helpful to live in Scotland . thing such as capital gain tax , which the UK have decide to make change to , have a massive differential impact on different group of people . People be less likely to benefit from the capital gain tax change if they be female or black , or if they live outside London . the UK Government have the wrong priority . they be do their very good to make thing well for the rich people and to ensure that inequality be far entrench . People on the high wage get the most money back from the national insurance reduction , and those on the low wage get the least money back , which again fit with the conservative ethos . the Chancellor have be clear that the big loser from the Budget be oil and gas . let we say that that be on the basis of the Conservatives ' really strong commitment to reduce climate change . it be not , by the way , but let we say for a moment that what they be do be about ensure that climate change target be meet and that we be get close to net zero . in that case , there would be a see - saw and a balance . they would be increase the tax on oil and gas and increase the investment in renewable , which be incredibly important . if we be to have a tax raid on the North sea , which impact on community such as mine in Aberdeen that be heavily reliant on oil and gas job , we need green investment , such as long - term funding decision on carbon capture , usage and storage , which would bring in £ 30 billion of private investment . the UK Government , however , be for some reason — possibly because it will be a big pre - election gimmick — refuse to make those decision right now . they be refuse to put in the £ 28 billion a year that we need to secure job in a green future and to get that bonanza . we have such huge potential in renewable technology , and we be fail to get there because the UK Government fail over and over again to put their money where their mouth be and make commitment . in fact , their mouth be in the wrong place on this as well . now they be talk about cut the green crap ; they seem to have revert to type on that . their investment be at the low level in the G7 . it be shocking that the UK Government be refuse , and fail , to tackle the big issue of our time , which be climate change . the Labour party have say that it will put in £ 4 . 7 billion a year to fund green investment and green technology . that be the same amount as the Scottish Government be spend in Scotland in 2024 - 25 . the Labour party think that that be enough money , whereas Scotland know that it be enough for Scotland ; we need significantly more than that to get the investment that we need . remember that all of this be reserve . the Scottish Government be put money and support into this , but it be reserve stuff . the reality be that we have so much energy and potential in Scotland , but we do not have the full power that we need to take advantage of it , to ensure a well future for our child and our planet , and secure the job that we continue to need . the last autumn statement include a real - term nhs cut . Scotland none the less increase our spend on the NHS in real term . tax cut and tax break be simply not investment . a Budget that be heavily reliant on tax cut and tax break will not ensure that we have the public service we need . Melanie Wilkes from the Institute for Public Policy Research say that the Chancellor ' s announcement " represent unsustainable real term spend cut to already crumble public service , with many have already see spending per person fall consistently during and after the austerity year . " the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that the Chancellor ' s Budget leave many public service face savage cut of £ 20 billion a year by 2028 . last week ' s statement do not provide a single penny more for capital funding . the Barnett consequential that we will get from the health increase that the Chancellor signal be less than we get in in - year consequential last year . the reality be that the big amount of money that the Government have announce for the NHS be not only not worth the paper it be write on ; it be not nearly such a big amount of money as the Chancellor would like people to think it be . narrow tax relief will not fix the systemic issue within some part of the creative sector . over the past few year , local authority have make £ 1 billion in cut to art funding , force by Tory austerity and the reduction in funding for local authority . if we want " Barbie " or " Jurassic World " to be film here , that be all well and good , but if we do not have the infrastructure and the grassroot funding to ensure that people can get excited , energised and educate in the art , we will have to import all the talent to do these job . we will not have people train to do they unless the grassroot support and funding be there . we have see that in football . there have be a massive increase in the number of female footballer who be perform particularly well . the England team have do brilliantly . that be because of the grassroot support that there have be and the funding increase for woman ' s football . that be brilliant , but without that ecosystem we will never get those people perform at the high possible level . make change to big flashy shiny thing be great , but we need to back it up with an ecosystem . in addition to the issue cause by cut in art funding , there be no cut to the vat on ticket , which be a significant problem . some 15 festival have be cancel for 2024 already . one more be announce the day before the Budget . if the Government will not look at such thing as the vat on ticket , which be significantly high than it be throughout Europe , we will continue to face such issue . when the cost of living crisis be bite and people can not afford to see live music as often as they would like , 20 % vat on ticket be just too high . there be also no fix for migration in relation to the art , and there be a significant lack of relief apply to such thing as choir . there be major issue in the creative sector . some in the sector be very happy with the change , and I be glad that that be the case . other part of the creative sector feel that they have be leave out , particularly when it come to live music and the night - time economy . if the UK Government be go to focus on the creative sector , they need to do more to enable people to access the art , and particularly live music . today ' s debate be about grow the economy . the hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) mention that there be record employment , and that that be a positive . I be glad people be able to work , but we have so many vacancy right now . the lack of migration , and the outward migration of lot of people who be work in care , for example , mean that the NHS be stress like never before , have come out of covid with too many vacancy and have face repeat refusal by the UK Government to increase pay . People be really struggle . I can understand why people would not want to do those incredibly high - stress job in our public sector , ensure that our NHS be provide the good possible service . the Government need to do more to be clear that we be not just stand on the doorstep clapping for public sector and NHS worker , but that we actually support they . they must give public sector worker the money they deserve for do those incredibly hard job , day in , day out , to keep we safe . they must train people who can be take on and allow migration so that people can come and work in our NHS . in Scotland , we have a focus on wellbee : our decision - make process go through a wellbee lens . we do not just say , " right , in our budget we be go to focus on gdp growth because that be the most important thing . " the most important thing be the wellbeing of our population . we ensure that people be well off and mentally and physically happy as a result of our decision making . for example , we ensure that our climate change target be meet so that their child and their child ' s child have a planet to grow up on . we ensure they can afford to live . that be why we have thing such as the scottish child payment , free school meal for P1 to p5 , baby box and free bus travel for under - 22 . I do not know how many member remember be under 22 and be totally frustrated at how much transport cost . People be able to make their way around Scotland , or even just get to school or uni , more cheaply than they could before because under - 22 , eligible disabled people and those age 60 and above in Scotland have free bus travel . that make a real difference to people ' s live day in , day out , especially give that the cost of bus in Aberdeen be something like £ 5 . 10 a day at the moment . we have the child winter heating payment for household with the most severely disabled child . our scrapping of the right to buy — this will probably get some groan from Conservative Members — have make the big difference to my constituency . we can build new council house and we do not have to sell they at an 80 % discount . when issue arise , we have brand - new , shiny council house to put people in ; it be fabulous that there be social housing . we still have social housing waiting list — absolutely we do — because we have be try to undo decade of issue result from the right to buy and the fact that we could not build more council house . so many of my constituent and people up and down the UK be in a desperate situation . in many case , people who previously be comfortable , never have to worry , have two car and be happy enough be struggle to pay their mortgage and council tax and to fund the daily necessity . the UK Government have absolutely fail to take account of that and to listen to people ' s cry for help . this Budget do not have the right priority for the people of Scotland and the UK . it do not make their life well and improve their wellbeing , but simply focus on some fiscal rule . rise — order . as I say before , I would prefer not to impose a time limit . if colleague can confine their remark to seven minute , that would be terrifically helpful . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , because it give I the opportunity gently to point out to she that she represent a party that be preside over the part of the United Kingdom with the high rate of personal taxation in the UK . she do not seem to understand that we can address the cost of living pressure for those in work by cut taxis , as the Chancellor have just do for 27 million people in this country . cut the national insurance rate by 2p next month , on top of the 2p cut this January , will make a material difference for family across the country — in particular , in south Shropshire . it set a clear direction of travel for low rate of personal taxation in the future under the next Conservative Government . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I be afraid I have no time . Madam Deputy Speaker be be very strict . those measure , combine with the above - inflation increase to threshold since 2010 , mean that the average south Shropshire worker now earn £ 34 , 500 , and in the next fiscal year will pay over £ 1 , 500 less in personal taxis than they otherwise would have do have the Government increase threshold only in line with inflation . I welcome what have be do . I also welcome the raising of the threshold and the halving of the rate at which high income child benefit be withdraw , which mean that by April 2026 the Chancellor will have end the unfairness for single - earner family . those who be over 65 year old — I declare an interest — comprise 31 % of south Shropshire ' s resident , compare with 18 % nationally , so pension income be of particular importance to my constituent . thank to the fact that the triple lock have be maintain , the full annual amount of the basic state pension be £ 3 , 700 high in cash term than in 2010 . the triple lock increase the state pension by 10 . 1 % this year , and it will increase by a further 8 . 5 % next month . in addition , the tax - free personal allowance , at £ 12 , 570 , remain high enough that a pensioner receive only a full basic or new state pension will not pay any tax on that income . that be a significant advance for pensioner on the legacy leave by the Labour party . my constituency be very rural and most people have to rely on car . the extension of the fuel duty freeze will keep fuel cost low than they otherwise would have be , and the freeze on alcohol duty and the extension of business rate relief will significantly help the hub of our community in rural area — our pub . as a farmer , I be very pleased that the Chancellor listen to call from farming organisation and the Conservative Environment Network , of which I be a member , and address the anomalous disincentive under which agricultural property relief be not available for land enter into some natural capital land use scheme . that be a welcome correction . in the remain moment I have , I want to touch briefly on how the work of the Environmental Audit Committee relate to the Budget . I be very pleased that the Government have commit to the sixth round of the contract for difference for renewable energy project get the large funding allocation to date — more than £ 1 billion . I be pleased to see the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , in his place . the Government have clearly learn lesson from the previous round , and have recognise that prevail market condition will inject commercial realism into the UK ' s approach to this increasingly competitive global market . although support for renewable energy production be welcome on the path to decarbonise the economy , it can not happen in isolation . it be clear from our Committee ' s current inquiry into enable sustainable electrification of the UK economy that electricity infrastructure , include transmission , distribution and storage , will also have to increase materially to handle the increase generation capacity that will be require to meet the increase demand . it be good to see that recognise in the Budget , which build on the energy system announcement last autumn to reform grid access . since November , more than 40 GW of energy project have be offer early grid connection date , accelerate and modernise the system to allow more renewable energy project to connect more quickly . I do not wish to pre - empt the conclusion of our inquiry , but the Government be bring forward measure to remove barrier to infrastructure investment , and be develop important guidance to encourage well community benefit for those affect . I turn to the other energy announcement . I be very pleased by the progress on the acquisition of nuclear energy site from Hitachi , both in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) and in Oldbury in south Gloucestershire . I have write on behalf of our Committee to raise concern about the pace of progress , and in a debate on the civil nuclear road map two week before the Budget I call on the Government for progress on site selection . hon . member who be up early enough this morning will have hear the chair of great British Nuclear , Simon Bowen , announce that Great British Nuclear now envisage take two small modular reactor project through to final investment decision in the next Parliament , which be a welcome breakthrough . finally , I welcome the further clarity on the carbon border adjustment mechanism — first confirm in December — which will be introduce from January 2027 . our Committee do a significant amount in lay the groundwork for that policy , which I hope the Minister might recognise . by give a date to which the industry can plan , it will have the confidence to invest in decarbonisation effort ; it will know that a carbon border adjustment mechanism will mean that less environmentally harmful product will be manufacture here and that we can reduce import , so that the investment of UK manufacturer in decarbonise can not be undercut through weak environmental standard . this be a thoughtful , prudent Budget , which will generate low taxation for individual over time and grow the economy under the Conservatives . after last Wednesday ' s Budget , I be catch up in chaos at St Pancras , with most of the line north out of action . whatever the real reason , it be interesting to hear people around I talk : " here we go again . everything ' s break . " that be a reflection of so much that be happen in the country . it reflect the experience of shock NHS waiting list . previous progress on cancer survival rate be now slip — that be appalling . People be unable to get a dentist : as we hear at the Health Select Committee and as the shadow Health Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , say in his storm critique of the Government , some people be resort to pull out their own tooth . school be crumble : in Sheffield , an estimate £ 45 million be need for essential repair of our school , but only £ 3 . 4 million be available . bus cost more while service decline , youth service have be cut , and knife crime be rise . a fail welfare system have create a massive growth in food bank — what we once think a temporary phenomenon be now part of the welfare landscape — and local government in particular have be starve of fund . over the past 14 year , Sheffield City Council have lose around half of its funding from central Government in real term : a total of £ 3 . 6 billion , equivalent to £ 315 million less for this year ' s budget alone . last Wednesday ' s Budget — the last , we all hope , of a die Administration — be a chance to begin to repair break Britain , but the Chancellor miss it . he ignore the crisis across our public service ; he also ignore public opinion , which put those service before tax cut . these be not decision make in the public interest : like so many decision over the past 14 year , they be make to manage the war faction inside his party , regardless of the damage to our economy . the Chancellor like to make claim about growth rate use convenient snapshot of statistic , but if we compare the last quarter for which figure have be publish — quarter 4 of 2023 — with four year early , we can forget those claim about lead the G7 . accord to the House of Commons Library , UK growth for that quarter be 1 % , well below that in the eurozone and well behind Japan , Canada and the US . the National Institute of Economic and Social Research put the UK ' s annual growth rate at around 1 . 2 % since 2010 , roughly half the 2 . 3 % rate see under most of the last Labour Government . the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , be therefore right to focus on growth . there be no benefit in increasingly tax an ever - diminish cake , but it be interesting to hear the Secretary of State , the right hon . and learn Member for South East Cambridgeshire ( Lucy Frazer ) — who be no long in her place — boast that UK tax as a percentage of GDP be well behind most of Europe and behind half of the G7 , which it be . however , she be at odd with her Chancellor : he be look admiringly at the US , where tax as a percentage of GDP be far low , at 26 . 5 % . it be a reflection of the flaw in the Chancellor ' s think that there be no evidence from the US that it be that tax yield that have drive growth ; if there be a lesson to be learn from the States , it be probably from Biden ' s Inflation Reduction Act . in addition , tax in the US do not cover much of the spending that it do in the UK . Americans might have more money in their pocket , but they have to spend it on service that be fund by tax here , from refuse collection to health . the US spend much more on health than we do : 14 % of GDP , compare with 9 % here . there be space to increase revenue in the Budget , but not to increase taxis on work people . indeed , this Budget leave those who could least afford it as tax loser . accord to the Resolution Foundation , worker earn below £ 27 , 000 — just under the average earning in South Yorkshire — will be up to £ 500 a year worse off because of the combine impact since last August of the national insurance change , which the Chancellor like to talk about , and the threshold change , which he like to ignore . instead , the Chancellor give a capital gain tax handout to those sell second and third property . his tax cut hit those struggle most with the cost of living crisis , but they leave unprotected Government Departments bad off : less money for education , less for local government , and less for most Departments . there be not enough for the NHS to pay its staff the wage that they deserve . there be choice . we could have have a Budget that focus on public service and investment in growth ; we could have have one that use the opportunity to raise taxis from those who could afford it , beyond simple game - playing on non - dom . this Budget do not do those thing . it fail the country , as this Government have for 14 year . it show again why it be time for change , and time for a general election . I commend the Government for this Budget , which I think be more radical than first meet the eye . I say that as someone who be probably make their last Budget speech . as some of my right hon . and hon . friend know , after 23 year I shall be step down at the next general election . however , I be pleased that the Budget incorporate a number of idea that many Conservative Members and , to be fair , a few Opposition Members have be campaign on for a number of year . individual measure that be confirm be welcome , include the state pension go up by 8 . 5 % this year , the minimum wage go up by 9 . 8 % and national insurance contribution come down by another 2 % , which — together with January ' s cut — will add £ 900 to the average salary . those be all good measure , particularly the minimum wage go up as much as it have . help the low pay be not only the right thing to do but the fair thing to do , and over the long term , it might also encourage business to invest more . if we want a high - tech , high - wage , high - growth economy , that be one of the measure that have to be core to the policy . let we be clear : there be no doubt that taxis be high than we would like . I raise that issue with the Prime Minister at Prime Minister ' s question only last month , but I commend he for the support that he oversee during the pandemic . we be respond to a once - in - a - generation pandemic , and make sure that we have one of the most generous furlough scheme and covid support package anywhere in the world be the right thing to do . as my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) say , it protect over 11 million job . I do not think any Government in their right mind would have walk away from that commitment , and it enable we to bounce back quick when it come to the economic recovery . I be also pleased to hear about the british ISA , alongside other measure to encourage great domestic investment in british equity . we should remember that the UK stock market be the gateway to financial service in this country , which contribute something like 10 % of gross domestic product — that should not be underestimate . some of we write to the Chancellor about this in advance of the Budget , and I be pleased to see that measure be forthcoming , in particular the emphasis on pension fund to examine their support of UK equity . in recent decade , our pension fund have divest themselves of UK equity by almost 90 % . it have now get to a point at which we need to encourage great investment in the great british company of the future . not only will this boost growth and employment , but it should encourage these firm to remain in the UK , rather than go abroad . it should also slow down the worryingly large number of british firm be buy by foreign investor at knock - down price , especially when these firm contribute directly to our strategic industry , include those essential for our security and defence . I would briefly suggest that the Budget be radical in that I think it represent a shift in thinking , possibly on both side of the House . in itself , the national insurance contribution cut be welcome . I have always believe that national insurance be a tax on job , and that be why I defy my own party ' s Whip to vote against our previous attempt — not attempt , but policy — to increase national insurance contribution . however , there have be a marked shift in the tax burden in not just this Budget , but the previous Budget , away from worker to most other form of income , include saving and pension , and that be where its radicalism lie . previously , government of both side have use national insurance increase to help fund public service , include the NHS . I personally very much welcome this shift . unemployment be a social evil that corrode society , and we should remember that , although we have record employment and an unemployment rate one third below the EU average , there should be no complacency . national insurance cut will far make work pay , and could be self - funding if something like a couple of hundred thousand more people come into work . I would briefly like to raise the ongoing issue of the cost disclosure regime for investment company , otherwise know as investment trust , which be hinder investment in key sector . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . for those who do not know , investment company , otherwise know as investment trust , be like a Shell or a Glaxo , but instead of run oil or sell clothe and food , they actually manage investment . they be quite important to the UK economy : nearly 40 % of all FTSE 250 company be investment trust and four of the FTSE 100 company be investment trust . however , because of a quirk in EU retain law , UK investment trust be have to roll up their corporate and investment management cost when disclose a cost figure on the european mifid — market in financial instrument directive — template feed use by the industry . this double accounting make investment trust look very expensive . it do not happen in other country , and the cost that other company in other jurisdiction put on the EMT feed , or their equivalent , be zero . investor be shy away from investment company , discount be widen and no new money be go into sector such as renewable energy and infrastructure . previously , sector investment trust raise ten of billion of pound for these valuable sector . even bad , company be have to buy back their own share , withdraw investment from those industry . this be nonsense . investment company have a long and proud track record of help investor to channel money into much - need sector . be close - ended — and , because their share be trade , not the asset , the share price already reflect the company ' s cost , in my view — there should be no costing at all . the Financial Conduct Authority have go as far as it believe it can without a change in the law . we have have conversation with the Government — with the Chancellor and the Economic Secretary — and a draft statutory instrument be before we . the consultation response have see over 300 industry stakeholder and investment house call for investment trust to be exclude as a constituent composite investment , which would solve the problem . another SI be on the way , and discussion be ongoing . finally , in the other place , Baroness Altmann , Baroness Bowles and other be support a private Member ' s Bill call the Alternative Investment Fund Designation Bill , which receive good cross - party support on Second Reading on 1 March . I hope the Government will support it . reader of the Times this morning will have see the letter that Baroness Altmann , Baroness Bowles , I , and a large number of investment company professional have write , set out our continued concern at this situation . I recommend a visit to the website costdisclosure . co . uk , which set out the issue in great detail . I hope the Government be listen . there be ongoing conversation , and I know there be those on the Front Bench , such as my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , who have also participate in try to resolve this issue . it need to be resolve quickly , but as I say , these discussion be ongoing , and I be look forward to hear some positive news . in his Budget speech , the Chancellor say he want to recognise the contribution of our creative industry and the tourism that come from orchestra , museum , gallery and theatre . it be welcome that the Budget make permanent the tax relief they can claim . however , this Budget come at a time when fund for our art and culture sector be widely see to be in crisis . local authority be the big funder of art and culture , but year of cut from Conservative - lead government mean that the funding previously spend on support orchestra to work in community , invest in grassroots music venue or strengthen the pipeline of talent into the music industry have fall by 43 % since 2010 . the Local Government Association report that more than a third of local authority be say that they need to make cost saving on art and culture to balance the book . that balancing of the book have become ever hard at a time of increase need for social care , child ' s service and support for homelessness . the decline of support for music be most worrying in music education , where music and art subject be be squeeze out for pupil in state school . there have be a drop in the number of music teacher , a drop in the number of hour music be teach , a drop in the take - up of music subject at GCSE and a - level , and a drop in funding in state school . just 15 % of state - school student receive sustained music tuition compare with half of child at independent school , which still believe in music education . music hub have a vital role in provide high - quality music education , provide it to 87 % of school in England , yet the funding for music hub have decline in real term over the last decade . their financial viability will come under even further threat in September if the Government end their funding of the teacher ' pension scheme for the thousand of music teacher engage by music hub . this have only be extend to August , so there be a great deal of uncertainty . by not address this issue and by bring about the decline of music education in state school , the Government risk lose music teacher , future musician and the audience of the future . they also fail to offer child access to an activity with many benefit for their academic , social and emotional development . there be further challenge for the music industry . for musician look to tour overseas , the Government ' s failure to negotiate a touring agreement with the EU have have devastating impact on pay and career progression , particularly for develop artist . add to that , we have failing at his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs in issue A1 form on time , and that be cause long delay and financial penalty for UK musician who tour Europe . it be not acceptable that tour musician be now wait up to a year to be pay due to hmrc ' s failing . musician hope to play close to home in one of England ' s brilliant music venue or one of our festival may now find few option . over 125 grassroot music venue be lose in 2023 , accord to the Music Venue Trust , and 15 festival have already be force to postpone or cancel this year . music event be important for the visitor economy . UK Music estimate that over 14 million music tourist come to the UK every year , and they spend £ 6 . 5 billion while they be here . the Music Venue Trust report that every £ 10 spend on a live music ticket be worth £ 17 to the area ' s local economy . grassroots venue be where many musician learn their trade . the Bath music venue Moles help to launch the career of Ed Sheeran , Oasis and Radiohead , but it be one of the 15 % of grassroot music venue that close their door last year . the Budget miss many opportunity for the Government to help the music industry , and Ministers have fail to address the issue I have raise . today my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the opposition say " it be short - sighted and frankly immoral , to allow art and culture to become the domain of a few privileged pupil … Britain be a world leader in music and film , but we be hold back masse of potential because the Conservatives ' creativity crisis be shut kid out . " fourteen year of conservative government undervalue culture and music have create that creativity crisis , and I be delighted that Labour ' s mission be to break down the barrier to opportunity in music in the art . labour ' s former Culture Secretary , Lord Smith of Finsbury , say that he believe his role from 1997 to 2001 be about " all the thing that for ordinary people make life worth live . " if elect , Labour will unleash a generation of creativity , so that every child get access to creative subject , not just the privileged few , and I welcome that . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) . I be also entertain by the speech by the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , partly because , as ever , he have some good line , but mostly because in a very long and indignant speech excoriate the Budget , he try hard to disguise the fact that on its central proposal — the cut in national insurance — he and the Labour party will be in support of it , so I feel that some of that indignation may have be a touch performative . I be happy to observe that the Chancellor have pass his first test . I often feel that chancellor , like doctor , should start with the old medical rubric , " first do no harm " . that may seem a low bar , but we have all see Budgets that fail to get over it . this one have , and for that we should all be grateful . indeed , I go much far than that slightly grudging praise , because I be generally very positive about the measure in the Budget . there be one or two element that I wish have be add to the Chancellor ' s statement , but in general I praise he for his navigational skill in some choppy water . the evidence be there from the obr that the economy be turn a corner . it make the point that inflation have recede more quickly than it expect , which strengthen near - term growth prospect and should enable a fast recovery in living standard . many people in this country have experience a tough few year , but we can see the path to recovery and we be take the first step along it . and not just in the short term . the IMF be forecast that we will have the high growth of the big european economy over the next five year , include Germany and France . it be important to recognise that when so many people have a vested interest in rush around and claim we be all doom . in an era when political and economic debate have become partisan or borderline hysterical , it be time to be calm and realistic . the UK economy will start grow again in 2024 . the inflation rate will come down to reasonable level , and interest rate should fall . as a result , business will be more inclined to invest , and consumer more inclined to spend . that be all good for the economy , the day - to - day life of million of family , and the general wellbeing of our society . in the run - up to the Budget , in a spirit of helpfulness , I publish an article with my hon . friend the Members for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) , and for Wimbledon ( Stephen Hammond ) , which set out what such an approach would mean in practice . our main taxation ask as one nation conservative be that any tax cut be aim at ordinary , hard - work people . I be glad that the Chancellor take the same view and concentrate the cut on national insurance . our other , more long - term ask be that we should set out on the road of simplify the tax system , with the ultimate aim of tax all income at the same rate , regardless of its source — be it earning , benefit or dividend . that will , of course , be a very long journey , but there be an indication that the Chancellor be think about that ; the idea to eventually remove the separate income tax that we call national insurance be a good indication that the direction of travel be correct . it have take many decade for the tax system to become as absurdly complicated as it be , so it will take year , if not decade , to make it significantly well . move in that direction be really important . a streamlined regime would have the dual benefit of reduce red tape and incentive to avoid tax . such a regime would be demonstrably fair and more progressive , and would reduce in - work poverty . Nigel Lawson use to have the admirable aim of abolish a tax in every Budget . it will take some time before the public finance be in a shape to allow that to happen again , but even small step in the right direction be a good sign . I welcome one specific package of measure , namely the help for the creative industry set out by my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport at the start of the debate . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee have be assiduous in try to persuade the Treasury to recognise the economic importance of the creative industry , on top of their obvious cultural significance , and I be glad that the Chancellor be listen . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will also acknowledge that there have be cross - party support for the tax relief across the year . they be originally introduce by the Labour party and be expand by the Government . contrary to what the Minister say early , there have never be a vote on any of the individual tax relief . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that point , and I be glad that this be another Budget measure on which there can be cross - party consensus . that feed into my general point that there be thing that the Government be do that should receive support from the Opposition Benches . the day after so much british success at the Oscars be the right time to welcome measure that will help to maintain the extraordinary success of this country in make film and high - end tv programme that be see around the world . that success , which will no doubt be help by the extension to tax relief announce in the Budget , have mean full production schedule in many studio around the country . I declare a constituency interest , because in Ashford we be in the early stage of build a new studio complex , help by level - up fund . I want the industry to thrive in year to come , when those studio be occupy . I also declare a cultural interest , because I want british independent film , as well as Hollywood blockbuster and series , make for streaming service . the enhance tax credit for british independent film with a budget of under £ 15 million hit exactly the spot in the market that film - maker tell the Committee be in need of help . that well - aim subsidy will , I hope , ensure future success along the line of that enjoy recently by " one life " . as I say , I be overwhelmingly positive about the Budget , but I wish to enter two caveat about issue that I hope can be address in future Budget . the first be about help rural community that want to decarbonise their heating . four million people live in oil - heated home in rural community , and be off the gas grid . they want to do their bit for the environment , but they be disincentivise from adopt renewable liquid fuel . those fuel have low carbon emission , but be tax , while fossil - fuel heating oil be not . scrap the tax on renewable liquid fuel in the Budget would have reduce their cost and make they a viable alternative to fossil fuel ; I hope that in future Budgets , my right hon . friend the Chancellor will look to do that . my second caveat be about the vexed issue of tax - free shopping . the abolition of vat - free shopping , when other big EU country allow it , clearly set the UK at a disadvantage . the Treasury have argue that vat - free shopping would cost the Exchequer billion of pound , but other economist argue that the knock - on effect of great tourism would more than make up for that . I hope that discussion continue about which set of economist be right , so that we can move to a more rational system that help our tourism industry . put aside those caveat , we should be grateful to the Chancellor for produce a sensible , pragmatic and positive Budget . the economy be recover . it do not need shock treatment , and it certainly do not need the unfunded commitment make by Labour Members , even when they be try so hard not to succumb to their basic impulse to tax and spend . the economy need a continue steady hand to nurture the recovery , and under this Chancellor , I be confident that it will continue to improve . rise — order . speech be begin to become a little elastic . if that continue , we will have to have a six - minute time limit . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , who always bring a sense of togetherness to these debate . although , obviously , he say that he support the Budget , he do so in his non - partisan way . I always enjoy listen to his contribution . however , the Budget that the right hon . Gentleman paint a picture of be very different from the one that my constituent react to . they be leave with an overwhelming sense of , " be that it ? " to be fair , when I look over at Tory mp after the Chancellor sit down , that be pretty much the expression on the face of the majority of the parliamentary conservative party . it would probably be unfair to name this friend from the Government Benches , but as we be walk back to Portcullis House , he say to I , " thank … " — perhaps Hansard will insert an Anglo - Saxon expletive — " I wasn ' t mention in the Chancellor ' s roll call of doom ! that probably mean I stand some chance of come back after the election . " he be only half - joke . the Chancellor think he be do the right thing in give a roll - call of the name of all the Conservative Members with marginal constituency , but all that do be highlight to Opposition Members just what a good job the Labour candidate be do in those constituency . after 14 year of conservative rule , we have have the very dreg of the barrel in this Budget . the everyday experience of people outside the Palace of Westminster be quite different from the impression give by Government Members in three day of Budget debate . the reality be that taxis be still up ; mortgage , for many , be up ; bill be up ; and price be up . the Government ' s response be a Budget with crumb for work people that do nothing to fundamentally tackle the challenge face our economy . one would think that this be the Budget of a country in its halcyon day , rather than a country now in recession . have the Chancellor fall victim to the warning of the Prime Minister who appoint he , and sign up to the " anti - growth coalition " ? far from pursue growth , the Chancellor have deliver the bad Parliament on record for living standard , as confirm by the Office for Budget Responsibility — give with one hand , but take more with the other . the conservative claim to be a party of low taxis , but thank to the rate freeze , they will have create 3 . 7 million new taxpayer by 2028 - 29 . the Budget be adorn with the white flag of surrender from a Government who have simply give up on the country and be now look in on themselves . the Chancellor ' s suggestion of one day abolish national insurance — an unfunded tax cut of £ 46 billion — leave a gape hole in the public finance . we know it , and they know it : that be nothing more than a gimmick . otherwise , money for the list of thing , on gov . uk , that national insurance pay for , which I rattle off early , not least the state pension , would have to be find from other source . transfer that list to income tax , raise vat , or both , would mean taxis up ; otherwise , there would be savage cut to public finance . I , for one , think that the Chancellor be appoint to clean up the mess create by his predecessor , not to follow his lead . there be no quick win . there be difficult decision to be take , and it will take time to undo the damage to our economy , yet the utterly reckless national insurance proposal show that there be a fundamental lack of seriousness at the heart of Government . they simply do not get the scale of the chaos that they have create . nowhere be that more patently obvious than in the dire situation face local government . section 114 notice be become frighteningly commonplace , and leader from across the political divide be unite in their call for help , but help come there none . rather , we have last minute u - turn and more sticking plaster , strain to hold together an already break system . the issue be far from just be about the odd move to fortnightly bin collection ; it be about local authority with serious , statutory duty for child ' s service and adult social care be force to cut down to the bone — and , in some case , into the bare bone . the Government say that local government can find more money by cut " woke " job or find other area of waste , but after 14 year of financial decimation , there be very little if any waste in local government . local authority be struggle . my local authority ’ finance have be decimate . stockport ' s budget be down by £ 90 million a year ; Tameside ' s be down by £ 200 million . Manchester ' s budget be down by £ 450 million . these be ginormous amount of money . the result be ever - deepen social and economic inequality . the area that be already struggle be the one suffer the most . those who need support be have the ladder pull from beneath they . that be the hallmark of a Government who , far from bring our country together , have seek to play divide and rule at every turn . after 14 year of conservative government , our country be less equal , less productive and less fair , and work people be pay the price . from the Chancellor ' s tone last week , we might think that be a record he be proud of , rather than one of which he should be utterly ashamed . so low have the Government party sink that no long be they cry foul about Labour not have a plan ; instead , they be steal our homework and pass it off as their own . the british people deserve more than a cheap copy job . they deserve the real thing , and it be about time they get the opportunity to vote for it . it be time for this era of chaos to come to an end . let we have a general election now . give this country the Labour Government — the fresh start — it so desperately need . it be time for Britain to get her future back . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) . despite what he say about Government member have their shout - out from the Chancellor last week , I be very proud to have have mine ; I will come to why in a moment . the Chancellor mention not only I but my constituency neighbour . to my knowledge , Labour care so little for St Austell and Newquay that it have yet to select a candidate . the hon . Gentleman ' s trope about marginal constituency be somewhat off the mark . I start by thank the Chancellor for his Budget statement last week . many policy in it will help fulfil the promise that I have make to my constituent in Truro and Falmouth . there be announcement that will make a real difference on the ground in deliver well home , a low cost of living , and high - skilled job for the future — everything that Cornish Members of Parliament have , time and again , seek to deliver for local people . the abolition of the tax regime for furnished holiday letting be what I get my shout - out for last week . as we emerge from covid , I hold a surgery in St Agnes , one of my constituency village . in a couple of hour , I have see 15 people , every single one of whom be be evict or have their rent hike to an unaffordable level , and have to leave their property . that illustrate to I that the cornish property market have become unworkable — not just because of covid , although covid amplify the effect — and that we absolutely need to rebalance . it have take three or four year of hard work by conservative constituency mp , work with Departments across Government , to start to reach the balance that we need . it start with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities introduce the register of holiday let and the need for planning permission for a change of use from a family home to a holiday let , and last week it culminate with another tool in the box : the furnished holiday letting tax regime . neither of those would work alone , but together they start to change the direction of travel for landlord in Cornwall . we be not demonise those landlord ; we be just try to reset the balance and to re - engage they in think about let for the long - term to family in Cornwall . that be important , because all our constituent need somewhere to live , but that be become untenable . I have a village call Portloe that have 90 property in it , and 80 % of they be second home or holiday let . one child live in that village . I hope the whole House agree that it be unacceptable that in winter the light be off and nobody be home , and that we have get to do something about it . thank to the Government , Cornish Conservative mps and like - minded mps from around the country , we be start to see a difference . I would like to whistle - stop through another few highlight from the Budget . in the Secretary of State ' s opening remark , she mention the creative art , which be hugely important to Cornwall . there be 6 , 000 business in the creative art in Cornwall , and we also have Falmouth University and the University of Exeter in Penryn in my constituency . in particular , Falmouth University be first in the UK and second in Europe for game development . all of those thing be vital to the cornish economy and to the UK economy , and I be pleased that the Government will invest heavily in tax relief to encourage that important industry . apprenticeship be also vital to all the emerge and re - emerge industry in Cornwall . the Cornwall Marine Network , for example , have create more than 5 , 000 apprenticeship and job , secure £ 42 million of investment and generate more than £ 500 million for the cornish economy . it include company such as Pendennis shipbuilding and A & P . incidentally , A & P be try to be part of the supply chain for float offshore wind for the Celtic sea and have put in for the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme . it would be remiss of I not to take every opportunity when I speak in this place to remind Ministers that they need to invest in the Celtic sea for the whole of the south - west region and look carefully at A & P ' s FLOWMIS submission . critical mineral — lithium in particular , but also tin and other metal — be vital for the future of renewable in the United Kingdom . all emerge industry rely heavily on apprenticeship and be get their apprentice from Cornwall College and from Truro and Penwith College , among other . apprenticeship scheme be vital for these emerge industry and give hope to cornish child who for year have think they could not possibly go on in life unless they leave Cornwall and go to university . now , they can use the UCAS system to look for apprenticeship at the same level as university course . they can stay in Cornwall , do fantastic course and go on to brilliant quality career in Cornwall . we have life science . Phytome , for example , be spearhead the evolution of plant - base medicine . of course , we have also get our traditional industry of fishing and farming . in fishing , every one job at sea be reliant on 15 more on land — that is 8 , 000 job in Cornwall that rely on fishing . in farming , we have not just traditional farming — of course , we be protect our farmer in that — but agritech . we have a fantastic company call Bennamann that specialise in methane capture : it clean it , process it and upgrade it to generate a well - than - net - zero gas to power the farming industry . it would be remiss of I not to mention the Chancellor ' s announcement of £ 35 million for maternity service across the country , for which I be utterly grateful . as the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss , I think that be fantastic . again , it be something that I have be call for . I pay tribute to our maternity service at Treliske hospital in Truro , which I visit last week with Donna Ockenden to show off — if I could — how well our maternity team be do . it be buck the national trend , with a waiting list to come to be a midwife in Cornwall ; there be no vacancy . that be testament to the hard work that have be do to make that team one of the good in the whole country . today , we be talk about grow the economy . I think a lot of our constituent stop listen when they hear that phrase , as it sound far too removed from their daily life in which they have be struggle with the cost of living crisis , sky - high housing cost and unsafe street . we be all aware of the devastating impact of youth violence . in 2015 , as a new MP , I lose several young constituent to knife crime in quick succession . their death have a huge effect not only on their friend and family , but on the community as a whole . that drive I to set up the cross - party Youth Violence Commission , of which the Home Secretary be a member , along with the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) . I hope that hon . member present will remember our work . from the very start , the commission push for a public health approach to tackle youth violence , which mean draw on knowledge from a wide range of policy area to create a multidisciplinary approach . pioneer work be do in Scotland when the first violence reduction unit be found in Glasgow by Strathclyde police under a Labour Government . its mission be to identify , understand and address the underlie cause of violence . the commission ' s interim report , publish in 2018 , call for the adoption of the public health approach oversee by a network of similar violence reduction unit . the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) , who be Home Secretary at the time , endorse that course of action and other regional violence reduction unit be establish . two year later , the commission ' s March 2024 report welcome the Government ' s commitment to further support and resource for violence reduction unit . last Wednesday , the Chancellor announce funding , which be so important — to be precise , £ 75 million over three year from 2025 — with his state intention that it should be use to upscale exist violence reduction unit and expand the model across the country . one of the commission ' s core concern have always be the long - term funding of violence reduction unit . we all know that that can be difficult in politic , as government of different colour come and go and priority change . violence reduction unit can not fulfil their potential and do all the thing they want when they do not know how much more money will be come in beyond the next few year . the commission ' s view have always be that they need to have 10 - year funding settlement . I also question how the £ 75 million will be spend . give that the funding allocation for 2023 - 24 total around £ 45 million , just £ 25 million a year both to upscale exist vru and to expand the network do not seem sufficient . I would appreciate further clarification on that . time be incredibly hard — we all know that — but we will grow our economy by ensure that as many people as possible be economically active , and that must include our young people . we owe it to they to show that we be serious about invest in their future . when prepare the 2020 report , the commission take evidence from a huge range of people . the root cause of youth violence — and indeed the solution — do not begin and end with the Home Office and violence reduction unit . if we want our young people to grow up and play an active role in the economy , we need to invest in they from the very start . that mean invest in child ' s centre , school , youth service , decent housing , youth employment and tackle poverty , as well as increase the number of police officer on our street and rebuild community relationship . I stress that as policymaker we need to engage with young people , and by that I mean not only listen to they but act on their concern and recommendation . only then can we truly understand their need and work with they to ensure that every single young person in this country have a bright future . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) in this Budget debate on grow the economy . my constituent , like many across the UK , continue to face significant financial pressure , but there be a real sense we be turn a corner as inflation and energy bill fall , wage rise and mortgage rate begin to come down . cost of living pressure will be far ease now that the Chancellor be in a position to again cut national insurance contribution for 27 million work people . combine with the cut at the autumn statement , the average worker will be £ 900 well off and have the low effective personal tax rate since 1975 . the raising of the threshold for the high - income child benefit charge will also mean that many hard - work parent can keep more of the money they earn . meanwhile , pensioner will see an 8 . 5 % increase to the state pension , which relative to earning be already at the high it have be for 34 year . alongside that , the significant increase to the national living wage , to working - age benefit and to the local housing allowance will all be important in the Vale of Clwyd . so far , so good , but that be until , I be afraid , we take account of the decision of Labour and Plaid politician on devolve matter in Wales . as we know well , for every £ 1 spend by the UK Government in England , the Welsh Government receive £ 1 . 20 in Barnett consequential . the Budget result in an additional £ 170 million for the Welsh Government , in addition to an exist record settlement from the Treasury . even so , Denbighshire County Council have find it necessary to hike council tax by 9 . 34 % while cut frontline service , include library and education . for too long , north Wales have bear the brunt of poor prioritisation by the Welsh Government , whether that be £ 200 million on the flounder Cardiff airport , £ 33 million and rise on the unwanted 20 mph speed limit or £ 120 million on increase the number of politician in Cardiff Bay . all this waste have real consequence for those dependent on high - quality and value - for - money public service . increasingly , we see disparity that disadvantage my constituent . for example , the Government be rightly extend the retail , hospitality and leisure relief in England in this Budget , while the Welsh Government be increase the burden on small business by reduce their level of relief from 75 % to just 40 % . disappointingly , that mean that the rate bill for an independent pub with a rateable value of £ 31 , 600 will be £ 3 , 942 in England , but £ 10 , 655 in Wales . the freeze on alcohol duty will be welcome in the hospitality sector , and the freeze on fuel duty for the 14th consecutive year will also be welcome in my semi - rural constituency , as will the increase in the vat registration threshold for small business . spend on the NHS be over a third high in real term than in 2010 , and the UK be now rank sixth out of the 38 OECD country on health spending as a percentage of gdp . however , outcome need to improve , so I very much welcome the near £ 6 billion announce in the Budget to address productivity and service pressure in England . it be , however , a matter of deep regret that the failing devolve NHS service in north Wales be unlikely to see the corresponding improvement that they desperately need . it be time to be a little more positive , and one of the thing I have find most satisfying over the past four year have be the increase attention that north Wales have receive from the UK Government since the election of a strong team of conservative mps . Denbighshire be receive ten of million of pound of level - up funding for various project across the county , include in Rhyl , Prestatyn , Denbigh , Ruthin and Llangollen . Wrexham , Glan Conwy and the Conwy valley , Gwynedd ' s slate landscape and Holyhead be also receive support . that support have be supplement by the community renewal fund and the community ownership fund , which in Denbighshire have give support to the Salusbury Arms in Tremeirchion , the Llandyrnog shop , the Sun Inn in Eryrys and the Llangollen museum . we also have the benefit of the share prosperity fund , which amount to £ 26 million in Denbighshire alone ; a £ 160 million investment zone in north - east Wales ; a £ 26 million freeport on Anglesey ; the north Wales growth deal ; fund for grassroots sport ; and the commitment of at least £ 1 billion to electrify the north Wales mainline . that theme of support for north Wales , which far exceed what be ever receive via the former European Union structural fund , continue in this Budget . the Government ' s long - term plan for town be expand at the Budget to include Rhyl . that provide the town with £ 20 million of additional endowment - style funding to invest over 10 year , empower it to develop a plan for the long term , not just for the end of the financial year . it be timely news that Theatr Clwyd will receive £ 1 . 6 million , which will allow it to complete its regeneration work fully . the theatre , base in Mold , benefit many of my constituent . it be a cultural hub for the region , and I be pleased not only to host its reception at Parliament a few week ago , but to welcome the art Minister , Lord Parkinson for a tour of the construction site last week . the announcement for Theatr Clwyd be join by the welcome news that Venue Cymru in Llandudno will receive £ 10 million in funding . we also hear at the Budget about a £ 5 million agrifood launchpad , which will provide research and development funding to support business in mid and north Wales to deliver economic growth through innovative project and to take advantage of new opportunity emerge in agritech . finally , I be delighted that the Government have reach agreement on a multimillion deal with Hitachi to purchase the Wylfa site on Anglesey , bring the prospect of major investment in a nuclear energy project on the site a step close . I conclude with thank to the Chancellor and thank that the Government recognise the value and priority of we in north Wales — long may that continue . when the Chancellor be hand the key to no . 11 in autumn 2022 , he be present by his supporter on the Government Benches as a safe pair of hand who could be trust to salvage the public finance from the wreckage of the Tory car crash mini - Budget . some 18 month later , anyone who still harbour a belief that either he or his party could be trust with this nation ' s finance will have be thoroughly disabused of that by a Budget that put the short - term interest of his party before the long - term need of the country . the late figure from the Office for National Statistics expose the scale of the economic challenge we face . the UK be in the depth of the most prolonged period of economic stagnation since the 1950 , with GDP per capita have fall over the past seven quarter . for the first time in history , living standard be set to fall over the lifetime of a Parliament . once again , Britain resemble the sick man of Europe , beset by chronic level of under - investment and the second slow growth of any G7 economy . the Chancellor have learn nothing at all from the past 14 year of tory economic failure . he still cling to the debunk fantasy that if more money be put in the pocket of the most well - off , it will , as if by magic , trickle down to everyone else . he still refuse to recognise the reality that if we want to grow the economy , we need to invest . if we be serious about secure sustain long - term economic growth , we should begin by support the income of Britain ' s real wealth creator : work - class household , who have be hit hard of all by the cost of living crisis . that mean put more money in the pocket of the low earner through target measure such as increase universal credit and scrap the two - child benefit limit . that money will then flow into our local economy and high street . instead , the Chancellor have deliver tax cut that the Institute for Fiscal Studies have estimate will disproportionately benefit high earner , while threaten to blow a hole in the balance sheet with a furth £ 46 billion in unfunded tax cut . as a result of the blanket cut to national insurance , we as member of Parliament on an annual salary of £ 86 , 000 will be £ 750 a year well off . meanwhile , someone in my constituency earn just £ 19 , 000 will be leave bad off than before , as a result of the freeze to income tax threshold . if the Chancellor believe that this Budget will stave off the electoral oblivion his party face in the loom general election , he be sorely mistaken . he have grossly misread the public mood . polling by Ipsos and YouGov show that even with the UK tax burden at its high rate in 70 year , voter overwhelmingly prioritise high spending on public service over tax cut . in Birkenhead , where the average person be nearly £ 18 , 000 bad off in real term than when Labour be last in power , resident see their local NHS service at break point . their local council , which have have its central Government grant cut by more than 85 % since 2010 , be teeter from crisis to crisis , year on year . yet not a single additional penny be commit in last week ' s Budget to spend on health , education or social security . the british public understand what this government do not : we can not cut our way to growth . they remember how the Tories ' ideologically drive austerity programme derail the tentative but promising economic recovery secure by the last Labour Government in the wake of the financial crisis , drag down economic growth year on year and lead to the bad decade for economic growth since the industrial revolution . they recognise that , far from austerity II , what Britain need now be to invest in its crumble infrastructure and overstretch and underfunde public service . I must issue a word of warning to my friend on the Opposition Front Bench . the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , have be clear about the dire economic situation that a Labour Government will inherit if Labour win the next general election . that be an indisputable fact , but the language that we have hear from the shadow Chancellor and the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , in recent day — that we have maxe out the credit card and there be no magic money tree — will ring hollow in the ear of many of my constituent , who have see the profit of the super - rich and big corporation soar during the pandemic and the cost of living crisis , at the expense of their own standard of living . they remain unconvinced that public service reform alone be enough to deliver the quality public service that they deserve . despite outward appearance , Britain remain a wealthy country , but that wealth be more unequally distribute than ever . I fear that unless my party be prepared to revisit its opposition to a wealth tax and to commit itself to genuine progressive tax reform , Labour will never be able to accomplish any of what it set out to do , or what million of voter believe that it must do . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Birkenhead ( Mick Whitley ) , because he speak straightforwardly about what the real Labour party think : that we should have a wealth tax in this country and more money spend on benefit , which will hit those who work hard . it be class warfare again from the Labour party , hit middle Britain . that be why I rise in support of the Budget , because it be another step in the right direction towards help hard - work people , towards low taxis and towards our conservative principle that people can well spend their money — they earn it and they deserve to spend it . for the average worker , 27 million work people will now receive a tax cut of around £ 900 , base on a cut from 12 % to 10 % less than six month ago , and now a cut from 10 % to 8 % . that be a total NI cut of a third . it be great news and I warmly welcome it , but it come as part of a wide package . it be important that other point be not lose in that excellent news , which I be delighted the Labour party will vote for when the Division come tomorrow . we be cut taxis for the self - employ and for sme by make sure that NI be cut for the self - employ and the VAT registration threshold be increase . that be great news . we have go far , too . we have make sure that family be reward again in our tax and benefit system . family be the bedrock of our country . they be the key to a bright future . the high - income child benefit charge be be amend , with an average £ 1 , 260 uplift for those affected family , which be a major step in the right direction . I warmly welcome it , have discuss it with my hon . friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury in the past to make sure that family get a fair deal . the most impactful change be one that do not come in just yet : the collection of household information , because that will allow family to get an even fair deal in the year ahead . I hope that the Chancellor will deliver upon that . a transferable allowance for all married couple would cost £ 6 billion in Treasury speak , but would reduce poverty by 4 . 3 % , with the poor family get the great benefit . one in 10 household would see their net income rise by more than 5 % . in the short run , it be possible to target that even far , perhaps only at parent with child under 18 , which would cost £ 3 . 6 billion , or even a small scheme to opt out from the free childcare that this Government be offer . that would address the unfairness that the tax system create , where a couple earn £ 60 , 000 with two child can pay over £ 7 , 000 more as a single earner than if both adult earn £ 30 , 000 each . our tax cut be good news , and they go beyond those personal taxis . I be delighted that the Treasury and the OBR have accept the existence of the Laffer curve on capital gain tax . that be a great first step , and I hope that they will see it work and go far and apply it to other taxis in the year ahead . a cut from 28 % to 24 % to encourage more supply in the housing market for first - time buyer and for second stepper be a great thing , though I urge my hon . friend on the Treasury Bench to think far at the next fiscal event about scrap or at least cut stamp duty land tax . that could get our housing market move , particularly by help downsizer and second stepper . I also urge Ministers to look again at inheritance tax , because abolish it would grow the economy , encourage more people to stay in work for long and boost receipt to the Exchequer . the proof of that be Sweden , where inheritance tax have raise roughly the same proportion as it do in this country — less than 1 % of all revenue to the Treasury . Sweden abolish inheritance tax in 2004 , in a move that enjoy cross - party support . the result be a boom in entrepreneurship , economic growth and tax revenue that the tax have previously suppress . it create a surge in asset be transfer not just to family member ; it be invest in business . moribund capital be be use for innovative reason and productive purpose . family business become more entrepreneurial , too . it be a win - win . contrary to some briefing from the Treasury ahead of this Budget , by abolish inheritance tax or at least cut it significantly , overall tax revenue can go up . the proof be there . any action on inheritance tax be non - inflationary , which make it a safe choice as we continue to battle inflation . I want to turn to grow the economy . we need to build more road , some railway and some home . investment be go into road , and I encourage the Government to go far and to streamline the planning process to make it more possible . the a303 tunnel need to happen . the M31 , which I keep bang on about , need to happen . the low Thames crossing , for which £ 300 million have be spend on planning fee , need to happen . these be the key to unlock future economic growth across the country . it be clear that for every pound spend on building road , the return be many time over to the Exchequer in the year ahead . we also need to boost housing supply in our city , because that be where we get the big economic return from build home . huge amount of brownfield site be ready to be unlocked , and I be delighted to see that the package announce could unlock at least 80 , 000 home . that be a great start . More than a million can be build in London alone on brownfield site . there be further investment in transport infrastructure in Cambridge to unlock growth there . the last few year have not be easy for the british economy . we have face the legacy of covid , the war in Ukraine and conflict in the middle east . those challenge have be tough , but we have make good progress and we be turn a corner . the inflation that rise around the world have now more than halve . the economy have perform well than forecast . mortgage rate that rise around the world be start to come down , and debt be on track to fall as a share of the economy , too . the job be not do , and this show the real choice that we face : our plan to reward work and grow the economy , or back to square one with a Labour Government or anyone else who will back they up and put they in with high taxis , low growth , and few job in our economy for our hard - work people . the theme of today ' s debate be grow the economy , so I want to touch on the feedback I have have in North Shropshire about some of the issue hold our economy back . as member will know , it be a rural part of the world . about 93 % of the area and about 18 % of the business be agricultural , so it be a little disappointing not to hear any mention of farming or rural Britain in the Chancellor ' s statement last week . farmer have have a really tough time : high input cost ; the wet winter on record , which be cause a huge challenge ; and a 50 % reduction in farm payment support this year , despite a conservative manifesto promise in 2019 to retain the level of support on the new scheme . I call on the Government to ensure that support be maintain at the same level and that environmental scheme be easy to access . the current process of pay out money up front really be not work for people who do not have cash in the bank at the moment . they be find it increasingly difficult to access finance , not least because of the demise of the local high street . I speak to someone last week who build a stone path to stop soil wash off his field into the road — it benefit everybody — but because of the timing of the payment , he will have to not get his grant or incentive , and take up the path and sell the stone . frankly , that be insane . we need to focus on ensure farmer can access support , so they can do the work they need to do for the environment and stay in business through this very difficult period . public transport be one of the big factor hold back the rural economy . Market Drayton in my constituency have only one bus service . young people find it very difficult to access the education and skill they need to grow our economy in the future , and to access job opportunity elsewhere in the county and beyond into Staffordshire . it be hold they back and hold the town back . the whole of Shropshire have only one bus service run on a Sunday — that be how much we be struggle for public transport . I encourage the Government to consider how quickly investment in public transport might pay back . the cancellation of HS2 see , I think , only £ 2 million go to Shropshire . there be no sustained investment in public transport . the shortage of people to work in our business be one of the big issue hold they back . some business be ship people in by minibus from elsewhere , because they be struggle to recruit the people they need . ensure that people be able to move about be an important part of grow the rural economy . train station be a part of that . last year , we receive the welcome news that Oswestry would be reconnecte to Gobowen by train , but that project seem to have stall , so I would welcome confirmation that it will progress . we know it be fully fund under the restore your railway fund , but we need to make progress now . we also have issue around drive test centre . People who be dependent on car have to travel long distance to find a drive test centre . they be spend a lot more on learn to drive and that be hold back young people in our area . I urge the Government to have another look at the importance of public transport in rural area to get our economy properly fire up . I have speak a lot recently about mobile connectivity and digital investment in rural area . the shared rural network be a welcome step forward , but it be not roll out as fast as we would like and we be not see the benefit we want to see . only 46 % of rural business have a stable 4 g connection , accord to the all - party parliamentary group for rural business and the rural powerhouse , of which I be a member . we need improvement at pace to get good business into the countryside and enable work from home , so that people want to invest not just in place where it be expensive to get an office , but in place where it might be more cost - effective . get people into job , possibly work from home , at high - level company that might work in the countryside if there be good connectivity , would help to revitalise our high street , keep young people in the area , keep our school open and drive growth in the rural economy where we need it . I encourage the Government to look at my campaigning on the share rural network , and to encourage business to share their equipment and allow rural roam to kickstart growth in rural area . on health , one of the big issue in Shropshire be the lack of recruitment in the health service . we have a number of specific issue : we have a hospital in special measure , where it have be for year ; we have appal accident and emergency waiting time ; and we be in a dental desert . it be very difficult to register with an NHS dentist . I do not think there be any NHS dentist take on new patient in North Shropshire . we need the workforce plan to come to fruition . for example , 2 , 000 dentist from overseas be already here ready to take the overseas registration exam , but there be lengthy delay to that process . the Association of Dental Groups say that just 1 , 000 of those dentist would provide an extra 750 , 000 appointment a year . we could get people to the dentist and get rural service fire . People would want to live and stay in our area if they be able to get the service they expect in an urban area . sort out the rural workforce be essential not only for the economy , but for the healthcare of the people who live in the beautiful part of the world I call home . a number of colleague touch on the important issue of local government funding . in Shropshire , 84 % of the budget be spend on social care , which leave only 16 % to deal with the highway and all the other economic regeneration work we would like the council to do . the highway be in an appalling state , and we be start to lose the facility , such as Whitchurch civic centre , that bring people into the high street . such place house library , registration office , indoor market , performance space and so on — all the thing that bring people into the high street and get the local economy fire . the council say that it can not afford the interest require to rebuild the civic centre , which have problem with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . it be important we sort out local government financing , because if we want the people who know what fire the local economy and know what investment be need to drive growth , we really need to get that sort out . I urge the Government to reconsider the fair funding formula and ensure that council be fund base on the cost of deliver their service and not just on the need for the service they deliver . I have use up my time , so I will conclude . Rural Britain make up about 20 % of Britain . it have huge potential , but it be unproductive . to get the economy grow , we need to support our farmer , invest in essential infrastructure and ensure our local government can invest in our area . the ice on the cake for Darlington in last week ' s Budget have to be the £ 20 million of long - term investment the Chancellor announce , build on the £ 23 . 3 million that Darlington have already secure under the town fund programme . those fund have already develop the Ingenium centre at Darlington College , help fund the saving of and development of the Northern Echo building , which will house adult learning and skill , and restore many historic shop frontage , all of which will help to grow the economy of Darlington . all that build on the more than £ 1 billion that Darlington have receive since I be elect in 2019 , which have see my town flourish like never before . the Budget build on that and the future be now bright for Darlington thank to the long - term , transformational investment the Government be provide . the amazing Darlington Economic Campus be now home to more than 750 civil servant , thank to the decision of my right hon . friend the Prime Minister . as recent study have show , it be contribute in excess of £ 80 million per year to our local economy . it level up opportunity , grow our local economy and restore pride in our town . it would be remiss of I not to repeat my request that the permanent home for DEC , once it be build in Brunswick Street , be name after our town ' s hero , William McMullen . that be a campaign I will continue to pursue . in the Budget , we have cut taxis for work people , with a further reduction in national insurance contribution from 10 % to 8 % . we be reward hard work , give the average earner a tax cut of over £ 900 . we also see a welcome cut in national insurance for the self - employ , which I have long campaign for ; a clear example that it be the conservative party which believe in enterprise and be on the side of the self - employ . a long - term goal of a single tax on income , end double taxation , be one that I fully support . like many throughout the House and indeed throughout Darlington , I look forward to raise a glass in support of the freeze on alcohol duty . I recently lead the " Darlington ' s Perfect Pint " campaign , a competition in which more than 1 , 000 of my constituent vote for their favourite pub . Darlington have 73 pub , which be a central part of our community . we all know the strain and pressure that our hospitality industry have face over the last few year , so the freeze be extremely welcome , and it build on the already massive support provide by hospitality rate reduction . let I now move from pint to petrol . I know all driver will be relieve that the 5p cut in fuel duty continue , and that the freeze on the fuel duty escalator continue for the 14th consecutive year . this Government understand that car be key to our constituent ' daily life , and I know that all those who rely on car and van for their job will particularly welcome the news . on that note , I will continue to campaign to stop Sainsbury ' s , Asda and Morrisons rip off the driver of Darlington and end the outrageous price that my constituent be be charge , which be far more expensive than even the petrol on nearby motorway — and , indeed , be significantly high than those in nearby town where the competition from an independent retailer keep they in check . this rip - off must end , and I will continue to fight for fairness for Darlington ' s driver . after much campaigning , I be glad to hear the announcement of a new duty on vape . that , along with the ban on disposable vape , will help to ensure that vape be for adult want to give up smoking , rather than be the pocket - money - price alternative to sweet for our kid that be cause so much harm . the fact that the Government be take such action as part of a large package of pledge in this area be very welcome , but we must not underestimate the exploitation of child by criminal gang who groom they with high - harm vape as an entry into other activity of a " county line " nature . this tax be only one of many method that we must use to protect our child . a healthy economy mean that we can invest the money that be need for our NHS . the £ 2 . 5 billion support for the NHS and a new £ 3 . 4 billion productivity plan will help to cut waiting time , and will ensure that all receive the support and care that they need . I pay tribute to the amazing Darlington Memorial Hospital , and to all the NHS staff in Darlington who be always there for we . I will continue to work closely with the hospital , GP surgery and our integrate care board to ensure that money be be invest well and care be of the high standard , and to use my voice in this place to bang the drum when more money be need . I hope that some of this extra funding for the NHS will be use sensibly by the ICB in fulfil its statutory duty to commission palliative care for our hospice . in that connection , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as we approach the 200th anniversary of the railway , I hope that Darlington might benefit from some of the £ 100 million make available for local culture project . Darlington lay the track for our railway , and inspire the world to follow . we have fantastic plan to celebrate that momentous anniversary in 2025 , but , as the Transport Secretary know , we need a further investment of at least £ 10 million to restore and rejuvenate North Road station , on the route of the original Stockton and Darlington railway line . I be also back the campaign by the Friends of the Stockton & Darlington Railway to save Heighington station ahead of 2025 . it be such a travesty that the old railway station in the world , just over the border of my constituency and in that of my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) , have be abandon , and I hope that , across Government , everything possible can be do to resolve the situation while the eye of the railway world be upon we . I pay tribute to the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) , who be sit on the Front Bench , for his repeat visit to Darlington . he have visit the Thermal Insulation Contractors Association with I , and he recently have the pleasure — a rare pleasure for any Treasury Minister — of open a brand - new branch of a building society , in this instance Darlington Building Society . this Budget back work , back the NHS , back level up and will help to grow our economy , and I be proud to back it . it be always instructive and interesting to listen to the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) and the right hon . member for North East Hampshire ( Mr Jayawardena ) as they paint the wonderful , rosy picture that so many in this country do not see or feel . those people , like I , be wonder who this Budget be for . there be nothing for the 14 . 4 million people , include 4 . 2 million child , who be live in poverty in the UK . there be nothing for social care , which be on its knee . there be nothing for education , at a time when one in five teaching assistant post be unfilled and the Government have miss their overall teacher recruitment target for more than three year . there be nothing for social security , at a time when poverty and homelessness be rise ; destitution have increase by 148 % since 2017 , and rough sleeping have rise by 27 % in the last year alone . there be nothing for council that have already see their budget cut by 40 % since austerity begin in 2010 , with more than 50 % report to be on the brink of collapse . while our collective campaign to save the household support fund have secure a further six month of that vital funding , it be a hollow victory , a stick plaster over a gape wound . the Chancellor be also able to announce further cut in essential service , such as those provide by local council , and to the criminal justice system . those cut amount to £ 20 billion . polling by Ipsos show that 55 % of people would prefer the Government to tax more and increase public spending , while only 10 % want they to reduce taxis and spend less on public service , so I ask again : who be this Budget really for ? cut 2p from national insurance contribution amount to a saving of £ 750 a year for a Member of Parliament , but only £ 300 for a nurse who be just start out . spend increase for healthcare and education do not come close to what be need for our public service after the challenge of covid - 19 and 14 year of brutal austerity . the Government would need to pledge £ 11 . 4 billion to fix school that be literally crumble , but this Budget cut planned investment spending by a massive £ 20 billion up to 2028 . in short , last week the Chancellor schedule a return to that brutal austerity , with the timer switch set for an impact after the next election . last week I visit three school in my constituency , and see the magnificent effort of the teaching team to not just educate , but keep family afloat in my community , give the Government ' s absolute failure to do that . those visit bring home to I the dire situation that child face . they deserve a Government who will invest in their future , not double down on austerity , owe to a political choice that will surely destroy their future . across the UK , food insecurity have double since the start of 2022 , affect an estimate 10 million adult and 4 million child . one in three people in my great city of Liverpool be now food insecure . the sign of deepen hardship be there to see in every part of the UK and in all our community , with long and long queue at food bank , and item such as baby formula and cheese under lock and key in supermarket . worker in nearly every industry be take strike action as a last resort , because work do not pay and do not meet rise cost , such as those of food . nurse , educator , firefighter , postal worker , rail staff and civil servant be use food bank . what have we become , and where be the political vision to fix the crisis of poverty and inequality that be destroy the very fabric of the nation ? at the National Theatre , a stone ' s throw from here , the magnificent actor Michael Sheen be play the lead role in the play " Nye " , about the life of the visionary Labour politician who champion the fight against inequality all his life and found our NHS . how desperately the country need a political giant like Aneurin Bevan to create a vision to transform the future of the million who do not see one under this Government , a Government still wed to a fail economic model that be destroy our community . Inequality have be hardwire into this country through the political choice of austerity . the late health inequality research conduct by Sir Michael Marmot find that during the peak year of austerity between 2011 and 2019 , more than 1 million people die early than they would have if they have live in the area where the rich 10 % of the population reside , and about 148 , 000 excess death be directly attributable to the impact of austerity . frankly , the argument against a return to austerity be unarguable . the people of this country can not and should not pay the price for the continuation of the Tory and coalition government ' fail economic ideology in this failing , appal and wretched Government ' s Budget . community such as the one that I represent will not and can not take any more . the endemic problem face Britain in the 2020 be often compare to those of 50 year ago . as be the case in the 1970 , our be a time of great economic uncertainty at home and abroad . now as then , faith have be lose in the dominant , prevail economic model . in the 1970 , rise inflation , industrial strife and stop - go economic cycle lead many to question keynesian economic thinking . the Blairite model of welfare capitalism , which embrace the false promise of globalisation and be personify these day by the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) and other , lose all credibility after the financial crisis of 2008 . in fact , there be many key difference between the economic context of the ' 70 and that of today . the Britain of the 1970 be beset by an atmosphere of constant crisis ; there be the three - day week and the winter of discontent . the number of day lose to industrial action in the last couple of year bear no relation to the dark day of blackout and rubbish pile up on the street . however , although our problem be superficially less severe , socioeconomic problem run deep . the 1960 and ' 70 be a time of great social mobility and rise living standard , but the harsh reality be that living standard have stall since the 2008 financial crisis . the Resolution Foundation estimate that real wage will be just 2 . 4 % high in 2024 than in 2008 . that compare with a 36 % increase in the 16 year before that . perhaps most troubling of all , although the ' 70 see a rise in new economic thinking that , for a time , reverse what many have see as irreversible decline , much of our politic today be stick in the New Labour paradigm , offer the same policy formula that be discredit the good part of 20 year ago . there be no well example of that than mass migration , which begin under Mr Blair and have continue ever since . fifty year ago , serious thought be give to how Britain could lift itself from its economic malaise . many of our economic ill be correctly diagnose and successfully deal with , but though every election since 2010 — and most notably , the Brexit referendum — demonstrate the public appetite for a radically new approach , it often seem that the liberal political establishment can not see what the people it represent know so well . the malaise go far deeply , and the relief offer by the usual Treasury medicine of loose fiscal policy be just not enough . nor be the assumption , from shadowy body such as the Office for Budget Responsibility and the Migration Advisory Committee , that any growth be good growth . it be welcome that the Chancellor recognise that when he speak about per - capita growth , rather than growth as a whole , in his Budget speech . as W . h . Auden might have put it , our time be an age of anxiety . deeply ingrained and destructive uncertainty prevent many people from come close to reach their potential , or from even think beyond their day - to - day existence . a grow proportion of people on low income live in the least secure private rent sector , be employ in unskilled work on unfair term , and pay for electricity and gas on prepay meter . as an adviser at the Citizens Advice Bureau tell one journalist , each of these problem compound the other : " your income ' s not stable , your work ' s not stable , your housing ' s not stable . everything ' s build on sand . " surely we know that a foundation of certainty be necessary to build social solidarity . additionally , heartless bank have abandon community , so many people find themselves drive into the arm of payday loan company with exorbitant interest rate , or even loan shark . the consequent economic insecurity result in many drop out of the economy altogether . an extraordinary 5 . 2 million people claim some form of out - of - work benefit . although the impact of covid have increase that figure , growth in the disparity between officially register unemployment and actual level of economic inactivity be a long - term trend . the inevitable result have be the breakdown of family in hollow - out community , which be why the Chancellor ' s change to the taxation of child benefit should be welcome across the House . all the evidence demonstrate that married parent be much more likely to stay together than cohabit one . child raise in unstable family suffer from bad health , be more likely to be exclude from school , and be more likely to join a gang or end up not in education , employment or training . the right hon . Gentleman be all for family stay together . what impact do he think raise the minimum visa threshold will have ? it be vital that we support stable family , and I acknowledge that stable family come in different form . I be simply quote the fact . stable marriage give child the good chance , and the Government be right to emphasise family . they should now emphasise marriage , too , to a great degree . to be fair , the Chancellor say that the Government will review the policy far , with a view to make additional change along the line that I have describe . over time , few people have choose to become member of club or group , to volunteer , to attend a church or to engage in any form of community activity . unsurprisingly , there be a strong link between the strength of social fabric and inequality . area with the strong community tend to be very rural place , such as my constituency in Lincolnshire , or area in London ' s wealthy commuter belt , in the south of England , or the wealthy part of Scotland . a macroeconomic solution to our problem must be accompany by an equally strong macro - societal approach , focus on the root cause of social breakdown and inequality , for state support be a stick plaster , not a cure . whereas the success of supply reform enable the Thatcher Government of the 1980s to reduce Government spending to less than 35 % of gdp by 1990 , sluggish economic growth since the financial crisis have mean that the Government ' s share of GDP be now more than 45 % . overall , Government spending be high than at any time since the second world war . critically , the Chancellor recognise that by begin the process of cut tax . we need to give people back more of the money they earn . when we do so , we will build social responsibility over time and enjoy great social solidarity . that be why I warmly welcome , too , the Chancellor ' s focus on skill . apprenticeship and technical education must be at the heart of our post - 18 education system , as I have argue throughout my time in Parliament , and they must be fully integrate into an economic strategy that support the creation of highly skilled work . the era of cheap money and unsustainable profit have do great damage to our economic base . british pension fund and insurance company once own 52 % of the FTSE ; now , they own just 4 % . far too much of the saving generate by hard - work british people be invest abroad or go towards unproductive end . as such , the measure introduce by the Chancellor be welcome , but they can only be see as the beginning of the long - overdue process of support productive investment in UK business . economic and macro - societal policy should be design to ensure that business practice work in harmony with the good aspect of human nature , not against they . it should tie economic profit to ethical and social purpose . risk must be closely link to profit , and the Government must do more to incentivise mutual ownership and profit - share model . a co - operative economic order would reinforce social solidarity . an economy must work for everyone , not just a handful of people at the top , which be why , rather than glamorise faceless global conglomerate , we must back british business , particularly the self - employ , as the Chancellor do in the Budget , and small and medium - sized enterprise . we need a more introspective economy , short supply line , more domestic manufacturing and british job for british worker . it be through fraternal economic , in which the nobility of labour be recognise and reward , and which reinforce our reciprocal communal obligation , that , by contrast with the flimsy ephemera of globalisation , we can seed substantial economic resilience and spawn social renewal . rise — after Mr Perkins , I will impose a time limit of six minute in order to ensure that we can accommodate all member still wait to speak . this Budget demonstrate that this be a Government that exist for one reason and one reason only : if they do not exist , the conservative party would have to face a general election . the only thing that the five family all agree on be that the one thing they hate more than face the tough choice that their disastrous legacy have leave this country be face the harsh verdict of the british people . and so the Government limp on endlessly , joylessly , hopelessly and without any sense that they have a clue how to tackle the kind of issue face our country that I see at my constituency surgery every week of the year . this be a Budget that self - evidently fail to rise to the challenge that 14 year of Tory government have leave our nation face . crumble public service , grow social problem and a bleak fiscal forecast be the damn but unsurprise legacy of 14 waste year . this be a Government who have fail by every measure . they come to power say that they be go to cut the nation ' s debt . my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) know british history far well than I do , but the early example of UK debt that I could find be under King William III back in the late 17th century . it take the collective government of the next 316 year to raise a cumulative debt of £ 1 trillion . this Government , in 14 useless year , have increase that debt from £ 1 trillion to £ 2 . 6 trillion . this be a Government that , for all their failure on public service , tell we that they exist to reduce the nation ' s debt . it be not just the national debt that be rise . People be bad off . real GDP per capita will be low at the end of this year than it be at the start of this Parliament . real pay have go up just £ 17 a week over 13 year of conservative government . under the 13 year of labour government , real wage rise by £ 183 a week . office for Budget Responsibility figure show that , within this Budget , for every 10p extra that work people pay in tax under the Tories ' plan , they will get only 5p back as a result of the combine national insurance cut . the idea that this Budget be on the side of work people be simply untrue . under this Tory Government , work do not pay . it be interesting to spend a moment of my day today listen to the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) . this be a man who just two month ago be a deputy chairman of the Conservative party . he say that under this Government the cost of living be out of hand , that people could not get a GP appointment , that there be no control on migration , that there be crime on our street , that people could not get a police officer to a burglary and that they be pull their own tooth out for the lack of a dentist . I have to say that there be not much wrong with that analysis , come from someone who be the deputy chairman of the Conservative party just a couple of month ago , but there be so much more that we could say . I see the disastrous decision that my own conservative council in Derbyshire be make . I have no time for the leadership of the conservative council . I see the huge impact on parent whose child be wait for a special need assessment or be unable to get support with special need teach assistant in school . I see the state of our road , which be simply unfit to be drive on . I see people who be wait for a social care assessment . I meet a gentleman just today who be at the end of his tether try to get support for his wife , who be in a terrible state . but for all the failure of Tory Derbyshire County Council , we have to come back and look at this Government ' s funding of local government , because council right up and down the country be experience the same , whether they be Labour , conservative or Liberal . they be all say that council funding be out of control . we also see the impact on NHS waiting time , with the long waiting time in our history . we see food bank usage become commonplace and we see rise child poverty . every time I go to a school , I hear that the school have child turn up unable to learn because of hunger . this Government be so out of idea that , at the same time they be claim that Labour do not have a plan , they be steal labour policy in a whole raft of area , whether it be the non - dom announcement , our plan on dentistry , our plan on the NHS workforce or the current consultation on water boss ' bonus . the thing that all those policy have in common be that they have be attack by the Tories and then steal by the Tories . it be clear that this Government have neither the ambition nor the courage to tackle the issue face our country . our economy need growth , but our country also need a shot in the arm from a Government with a commitment to tackle poverty and the cause of failure that have go unchecked under this Government . no more a country where people die on an NHS waiting list , wait for the treatment that could have save they . no more a country where the train do not run and the road be not fit to drive on . no more a country where the place someone be bear be the big determinant of their chance in life . Change be come , and it can not come a moment too soon . I very much welcome this Budget , which be testament to the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the compassionate and economically prudent conservative approach that have define our tenure since 2010 . the backdrop , we must remember , be that the economy face devastation because of the last Labour Government , include a massive deficit and the startling admission from the depart Labour Chief Secretary to the Treasury that there be no money . the Conservatives come in and address the challenge , lower the deficit , ensure that more people be in work and create sound foundation for the economy . that financial stability allow the Cameron Government to stabilise the economy , mean that when we be face with the unprecedented challenge of the pandemic , the Johnson Government be able to spend the £ 400 billion need to save people , the economy and job during that unprecedented time . that include the life - save vaccine roll - out and the furlough scheme , launch by the Prime Minister when he be Chancellor , which protect 11 . 7 million job and the economy . in recent year , those challenge have be compound by the war in Ukraine . through sound finance , the Chancellor have be able to mobilise £ 78 billion to support people with their energy cost , which rise astronomically due to Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . I very much welcome the fact that the Government have again act to support people with the challenge that they face and that they have stick to their plan to reduce inflation , which have fall from 11 . 1 % to 4 % . the extension of target support in the Budget unequivocally reconfirm that this Government be on their side . I be pleased that the pension triple lock continue to be maintain under a Conservative Government , reaffirm our commitment to security and dignity for those who have work hard all through their life . I know that people up and down the land will also welcome another vital conservative principle in action : reward hard work and allow people to keep more of what they earn to spend in the way that they need . the further national insurance cut be therefore a welcome shot in the arm for 27 million work people , and put together with the autumn statement measure , it will benefit the average worker by over £ 900 a year . I hugely welcome the support for family through the change to the high - income child benefit charge and end the unfairness for single earner family . likewise , I know that my rural constituent will welcome the freeze in fuel duty , because car transport be a lifeline for connectivity to the place where they live and work . I be absolutely delighted that Cumbria ' s transport and connectivity will be transform by the Government ' s decision last week finally to approve the dualling of the A66 . this will be a lifeline connect community , people , business and the economy right across the north . most importantly , it will save people ' s live by improve the safety on that very dangerous piece of road . I have campaign on this for many year and I pay tribute to all the constituent and campaigner who have work hard on it , as well as the Department for Transport , National Highways and indeed my predecessor , Rory Stewart , who I know give a lot of time and attention to it . I pay tribute to he for that . our region be bless with a beautiful and thriving landscape and a dedicated hospitality and tourism economy , and this will be help by the A66 upgrade . the support measure in the Budget will help the people in those sector as well . I very much support the announcement in the Budget of tax relief to support our independent film - make sector . that have be welcome by the Oscar - win director Christopher Nolan . it will be such a shot in the arm for the UK ' s creative art industry . tourism hotspot have experience at first hand the impact of holiday let and the pricing out of individual from home in their own community , so it be important that the Chancellor be address this by tackle the furnished holiday home loophole . that be something I have campaign for passionately . I very much welcome the support in the Budget for public service . on top of the long - term workforce plan , there be £ 2 . 45 billion for NHS reform next year and a new £ 3 . 4 billion productivity plan . I also welcome the Government ' s measure to tackle vaping , which be a scourge on our young people . we have hear about the economic effect of food security , and how hard our farmer work to support it . we need to make sure that we protect the sector , which will partly be about biosecurity . I urge the Government to consider funding in full the refurbishment of the Animal and Plant Health Agency down in Weybridge , Surrey , as it be so important to our food security , our animal health and welfare , and our public health and welfare . there have be too much negativity about Britain and our economy . we have a lot to be optimistic about , and we should be very proud of our country , of our achievement and of what lie ahead . it be the conservative party ' s sound economic and financial management that will keep that go . last week ' s Budget demonstrate to many the result of almost 14 year of tory economic failure . taxis be rise , price be still go up in the shop , mortgage be high and we have the high tax burden in 70 year . what a record ! it have become clear that household in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney , and across the country , will be £ 870 bad off , on average , under this Prime Minister ' s tax plan , which give they 5p for every 10p take from they , accord to OBR figure . the OBR confirm that this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard , and the only Parliament on record in which living standard have fall . as we have hear , real pay have go up by just £ 17 a week over 13 year of conservative government , whereas in the previous 13 year , under a Labour Government , wage rise by £ 183 a week . we know that the Tories play fast and loose with the nation ' s finance . the disastrous mini - Budget demonstrate just how detached they be , but the Chancellor now plan to abolish national insurance contribution . the £ 46 billion of unfunded tax cut will leave a gape black hole in the public finance . how many more risk will the Tories take with the nation ' s finance , and what will it do to the people and community I represent ? this be not a good Budget for family who be already struggle after 14 year of Tory government . family across Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney be already struggle to make end meet . food price be 25 % high than they be two year ago , utility bill be high , and people be experience high mortgage as a result of the Tories ' mini - Budget of 2022 . I speak to my local food bank and regularly hear about the grow scale of need , which be a record that should utterly shame this government . in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney alone , more than 3 , 636 emergency food parcel be provide between 1 April and 30 September 2023 — a 52 % increase compare with five year ago . of those , more than 1 , 547 emergency food parcel be provide to child — a 34 % increase compare with five year ago . I pay tribute to the staff and volunteer who give so selflessly at the Merthyr Cynon food bank , the Rhymney Valley food bank and the Taff Bargoed food bank , as well as at the many food pantry and charity help our community , but it be desperately cruel and sad that so many family in my area and across the country have to rely on food bank in the world ' s fifth rich country in 2024 . I be disappointed that the Government do not include anything in the Budget on the loan charge scandal that be affect my constituent and many thousand of people across the country . the way in which HMRC have deal with this issue have cause unbelievable hardship , distress and anxiety for large number of the people we serve . ordinary people up and down the country be be ask for unrealistic payment , which be cause huge financial hardship , bankruptcy and bad , such as the risk of lose their home and an increase risk of suicide . there be real concern that this be another scandal where the Government ignore the alarm bell and cry for help , so I urge they to revisit it to ensure a fair and more effective approach from HMRC , as the current approach be extremely tough on those catch up in the scheme but weak on the architect of those scheme . as have be suggest by the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group , of which I be a member , the tax burden should not fall solely on the individual user of the scheme , but should be share by the employer , the agency and , ideally and appropriately , the operator and promoter of the scheme . on that basis , the Government should change course and announce a fair approach . we must remember the human impact of the loan charge . as we know , and as I touch on early , HMRC have confirm that there have be 10 suicide and 13 suicide attempt by people face the loan charge . that should be enough reason to stop this cruel and retrospective policy . I urge the Government to accept that there be something deeply wrong with their current approach to the loan charge scheme . finally , we have to ask just how many plan for growth the Tories have have . I think that , at the last count , it be 12 over the last 14 year , and we be now in recession . the Tories have clearly run out of idea and run out of time . we have have five Tory Prime Ministers and seven chancellor . our community can not survive another five week of the Tories , let alone five year . they simply can not be trust with our economy . our community be bad off after 14 year of conservative government . it be time for the british people to have their say and to decide how they feel after 14 year of Tory failure . the general election can not come soon enough , so my message to the Prime Minister be to get on and call it . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) , not least to inject a little context into this afternoon ' s debate . the truth be that this country be reel , but it be not reel from 14 year of Tory cut . it be reel from the most extraordinary period of economic shock that this country have ever see . I remind Opposition Members that the City crash in 2007 - 08 cost we £ 875 billion in quantitative easing under the then right hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath . Brexit cost we £ 70 billion in QE , the pandemic cost we £ 400 billion and the support that the Government put in place to help hard - press family with the energy crisis follow the war in Ukraine cost £ 40 billion . this country have be through a perfect storm of unprecedented , once in 400 - year or 500 - year event with which we be all struggle . I welcome this Budget . I will say something about the cost of live relief for rural area such as Mid Norfolk , and something about growth and how we can get this country out of the huge risk of stagflation arise from the sequence of event that I have just describe . in a global race for science and technology investment , we have to move fast and be bold to unlock that investment . the pandemic and the Ukraine war have be unprecedented shock , particularly to the rural economy . unbelievable cost of live inflation have hit rural area particularly hard . how much hard ? the Treasury calculate that the differential cost impact be about 150 % hard in rural area because of high transport cost ; high heating cost ; high dependence on agriculture , food processing and high - energy industry ; low income ; marginality and rurality ; a very high proportion of retire pensioner on fix income ; and rural council that have be structurally underfunde for decade by a whitehall that do not understand rural area . we put up with it for year during an era of cheap energy , but high energy cost have hit our public service , our charity , our business and our household hard . I be very grateful for the support that the Chancellor have provide , but I will continue to make the case that rural area deserve more support and more targeted support for a very particular set of rural problem . in this Budget , I welcome the fuel duty freeze , the household support fund , the cost of childcare relief , the child benefit measure , the alcohol duty freeze , the national insurance cut worth £ 800 for the average worker — include the self - employ — the SME recovery loan scheme , the SME VAT threshold move and the pension triple lock be fix at 8 . 6 % , which be four time the forecast rate of inflation . this be a Chancellor do everything he possibly can to help the most vulnerable and the most deserving in our society . in Norfolk , I particularly welcome the investment in new special free school for child with special educational need and disability — that cause be close to my heart — the accelerated east - west rail delivery that be crucial to unlock our region ' s potential , and the 10 sport facility in rural Mid Norfolk . there be good news in a very tough Budget . Most of all , I welcome the Chancellor ' s measure to support growth in the innovation economy , include the £ 2 . 5 billion for the NHS , in addition to the £ 3 . 4 billion productivity plan , that will unlock an extra £ 30 billion accord to the NHS . there be funding for the Faraday discovery fellowship ; this country ' s low Earth orbit leadership ; the expert advisory group on R & D tax relief ; the £ 100 million for the Alan Turing Institute ; the £ 45 million for our life science research charity ; the £ 5 million for the agrifood launchpad ; and the £ 10 million for the Cambridge cluster . that be investment in the long - term growth of tomorrow , on which we all depend in order to get out of this extraordinary 15 - year triple whammy of crisis that this country have go through . opposition member do not seem to understand that we can not tax our way to prosperity and we can not spend our way to it . [ interruption . ] I know they do not want to hear it , but it be the truth . for prosperity , we need to do two big thing , the first of which be reform our public sector to tackle the productivity crisis properly . I be proud to say that this Government , in the 14 year I have be here , have increase health spending by a third , but we can not see that outcome on the ground . that be because the healthcare system be structurally gear — it be not any one party ' s fault — in a way that say , " if you deliver more for less , we give you less from the Treasury . " we punish innovation and we reward inefficiency , and that have to change . I welcome quite a lot that the shadow Health Secretary have say about reform it . the real key , however , be growth . as I have consistently argue for 14 year , we have to do more to support innovation - lead growth , as that be the only form of growth that drive up productivity , create new industry and drive global inward investment . with stubborn debt and the risk from all of the shock that I have outline still with we , that be more urgent than ever . we will never get out of this crisis by short - term house price boom , short - term consumer boom and boom in the City . we have to do it by attract private sector investment into the high - growth sector of life science , agritech , bioengineere , clean tech , fusion energy , semiconductor , robotic , tidal energy , satellite manufacturing and quantum computing . we be a powerhouse in science and research , but we be not yet a powerhouse in attract the global billion into those sector and turn they into solution around the world . that innovation be the key , both to private sector recovery and , of course , to public sector reform , particularly in health , which be the big public service drive the structural deficit . we need to introduce a much fast wave of innovation in artificial intelligence and all sort of digital health , with early prevention and well diagnosis . in that way , we can reduce the appalling problem of pour money in and get less out on the ground . time be very short , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I want just to conclude — [ interruption . ] my time be up , but let I conclude by say that — order . as the hon . Gentleman say , time be up . I be terribly sorry . I call Sir Chris Bryant . I warmly support the measure in the Budget to help the creative industry , but I simply say to the Government that it do not work without guarantee a creative education for every child in all our school ; it do not work if kid in the Rhondda do not get an equal opportunity to think of a job in the creative industry , along with anybody else in this country ; and it simply do not work if minister constantly deride creative industry and humanity degree — we can not have one thing without the other . there be thing that I feel desperately sad about ; there be nothing in the Budget for the people of the Rhondda . Most of the change to taxation and to child benefit will benefit people who earn far , far more than the average in the Rhondda . I be sorry but I have to say to the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) that it be the conservative party that be tax more ; it be give with one hand and take twice as much away with the other . it take a particular skill to have the high tax take for 70 year , rise every year of the Chancellor ' s forecast , and the big fall in living standard and the prospect of swinge cut in public service still to come . I want to talk about growth , because it have be anaemic for all 14 year the Conservatives have be in charge . if we want growth , first we have to take the whole nation with we . fail to level up simply be not an option , which be why I feel so angry about the preposterous levelling - up process use by this Government . they make level up a competition between local authority . worse , they make the poor local authority in the land , which be already strap for cash , compete with one another for tiny scrap of cash . the Government side - step any proper assessment of need , in many case intentionally ignore deprivation index when consider where cash should go . thus , the Prime Minister ' s wealthy constituency get £ 19 million , and last week £ 242 million of levelling - up fund go to Canary Wharf . the Government dole out cash to constituency on the notorious Tory mp at risk register , with £ 10 million here and £ 5 million there . it be shameless , it be degrade for mps and it be utterly corrupt . few than one in five project grant levelling - up cash through the Tories ' town fund have be complete , even though the whole point be that these have to be shovel - ready project that could be complete by the end of the relevant financial year ; that work out at only 154 of 973 project . that take I on to the Rhondda tunnel , as at least four Cabinet Ministers and more than a dozen junior Ministers have tell I to put in a levelling - up bid for it . but every time I meet a Minister to discuss it , they get move . sometimes they get move before I get to meet they . sometimes I wonder whether they get move because I be go to meet they . first we be tell we could bid in round 2 , but then we be tell we could not . we be then tell , " what about round 3 ? " then we be tell there be not go to be a round 3 because the Government have already allocate the cash to , guess what , conservative constituency . then I be tell that we should put together a special , bespoke bid of our own . last week , I be tell by a Minister that they have " give up on level up . " that be basically the message we have get . this be no way to run a whelk stall . secondly , we can not achieve growth in the UK economy unless we have a fully function NHS . a significant number of the nearly 8 million people on the waiting list — it be 4 . 8 million before covid — be desperate to get back to work , but they be wait for the surgery or treatment that make that possible . let I give the House an instance of that . in 2021 , I be ask by the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) , the then Health Secretary , to co - chair a programme board to set a national strategy for acquire brain injury . I know that official have try their good , but , yet again , the Ministers have keep on change — I be now on my fourth — and every deadline get push back . so we still do not have a national strategy . if we could get proper neurorehabilitation for everyone who have a brain injury in the UK — about 1 . 4 million people — we could give more people with brain injury back a real quality of life and we could get more people with brain injury into work , earn money rather than rely on the state . sadly , the Department tell I there be not even money to pay for establish how many people be live with a brain injury , let alone put together a impactful strategy . that be a false economy in the end . thirdly , growth in our country depend on national infrastructure that work . every time a train be cancel or delay , someone waste another couple of hour and our economy become just a little bit less productive . how on earth do the country that invent the telephone , the television and the worldwide web end up spend million of pound every year on legacy IT system just to keep the show on the road ? why be it only now that the Government be put money into digitise the NHS properly ? why be wi - fi on our train so completely hopeless ? why can the French do it well than we ? why have vast tract of our country be trap in mobile phone notspot ? it be a shameful legacy , but that be the legacy of this Government . the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) say the voter should just judge they on their record . yes , I suspect that people will ; in the word write on the wall at Belshazzar ' s feast , " thou art weigh in the balance and find want " . I welcome this Budget . it continue the Prime Minister and the Chancellor ' s clear plan to get the economy back on track , follow the twin global shock of the pandemic and Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine — [ interruption . ] opposition member do not like to hear it . they can chunter from a sedentary position , but those be fact . through target tax cut , both for business and individual , this Budget will put more money back into the pocket of hard - work family and people in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea , and set our country back on course for growth . we should remember two fact about this Conservative Government ' s record . we have create the right economic environment to create 800 job every day of this Government , and in the last two year , when people have be suffer because of the cost of living crisis , the Government have give on average £ 3 , 400 in help . this Government create job but do not forget people when they need help . I will use my time to talk about the thing that benefit Southend . Southend be a city of entrepreneur , successful large and small business , Borough Plating and KeyMed , unique and interesting shop , fabulous seafront hostelry , Adventure Island and 1 , 000 year of the fishing industry . I be proud to stand up for those business in this place . all of they will benefit , to a less or great extent , from this Budget . I be delighted that the Chancellor listen to I and other colleague regard the need to reform the vat threshold to make life easy for small business , which be the engine of our local economy in Southend West . the reform will take thousand of business across the region out of pay vat , make it easy for Southend ' s 9 , 000 sme to grow , create more job and , ultimately , more income for the Exchequer and well public service . similarly , I welcome the news we be freeze alcohol duty , benefit 7 , 000 pub , restaurant , club and venue across the east of England . take with our action at the autumn statement to extend the 75 % business rate relief for retail , hospitality and leisure until 2025 , as well as freeze the small business multiplier , this be another welcome win for our tourism and hospitality sector in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea . thank to this Budget , brilliant pub , such as the Legra Tap and Kitchen , own by the fabulous Leigh - on - Sea Brewery , the Blue Boar , the Mayflower , the Bellhouse and the Saxon King , to name but a few , will all benefit . the vast majority of resident in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea work hard . they work full time , and they own their own house . they deserve to keep as much of their own money as possible — a fundamental conservative principle . I welcome the fact that in this Budget the Government be again cut national insurance for 27 million work people . combine with the cut make in the last autumn statement , the average work person in Southend West and Leigh earn £ 36 , 500 a year will keep an additional £ 960 next year . a hard - work family in Southend , with two earner on the average income , will be £ 1 , 920 well off next year because of this Budget . one of our brilliant senior nurse at Southend Hospital will be well off by £ 1 , 202 ; one of our brilliant teacher in one of Southend ' s fantastic school will be well off by £ 1 , 270 ; and one of our brilliant police officer on an average wage will be well off by £ 1 , 270 , on top of the brilliant work they do cut crime across our city . I also welcome the announcement that the Chancellor be once again continue the freeze on fuel duty and maintain the 5p reduction introduce last year . some 80 % of Southend household have at least one car and 40 % of my constituent drive to work . member on the government Benches help our hard - work motorist and white van man , in stark contrast with the Labour Mayor of London , who fleece motorist whenever he can . the family be the cornerstone of our society . the conservative party will always support hard - work family , for whom child benefit be often a lifeline . I be delighted that almost half a million family will benefit from the change to the high - income child benefit charge , with 170 , 000 family no long pay it at all . from April , the high - income child benefit charge threshold will be raise to £ 60 , 000 , with the top of the taper at which it be withdraw rise to £ 80 , 000 . that mean that half a million family , include thousand of hard - work family across Southend West , will save an average of £ 1 , 300 a year . we be also the party that respect our elderly and our senior citizen . when my child be young and I take they to music lesson , we be tell to always tell they three positive thing before tell they anything negative . I have say three positive thing but , while I be pleased we protect the triple lock , the freezing of income tax threshold mean many pensioner be now pay increase tax . I ask the Chancellor to look again at that issue and to ensure that at the next fiscal event our pensioner do not miss out on further tax cut . this Budget be a huge disappointment . nothing the Chancellor say last week change the reality face my constituent in Stretford and Urmston . their taxis be still rise , their weekly shop be still more expensive , and their mortgage remain sky - high . this be the price of 14 year of economic failure : the high tax burden in 70 year , and the only Parliament on record in which living standard have fall . it come just week after we learn that the Prime Minister , who promise we growth , have in fact lead we into recession . thankfully , the Leader of the opposition set out an alternative in his response to the Budget that grasp a fundamental truth : the only path to grow our economy be to get Britain build again , and that start with build the home that we need . despite that , there be next to nothing in the Budget to reverse stall house building , nothing to tackle the affordability crisis , and nothing to help renter . the sad truth be that none of that be a surprise . why would we expect plan reform to stimulate economic growth from a party that ditch house building target to satisfy Tory Back Benchers , with an estimate £ 20 billion of economic activity lose as a result ? why would we expect support for renter from a party that still have not ban no - fault eviction some five year on from first promise to do so ? why would we expect the action that we need on homelessness , when the Government have allow it to soar on their watch , with more than 142 , 000 child now live in temporary accommodation ? if we need a reminder of what happen when we strip local government of funding , fail to build social housing and let poverty spiral , we get it last week with the tragic news that 55 child die between 2019 and 2023 with temporary accommodation cite as a contributory factor to their death . the moral case for tackle our housing crisis be clear , but give the theme of today ' s debate I will talk about the economic case , which be also overwhelming . as Policy Exchange have say , our chronic shortage of housing be a key reason for our stagnant economic growth . supply not meet demand have generate problem after problem for our economy , with weak spending power for the average family , who have see an increase in the amount of their income go on housing cost . supply not meet demand be the cause of all of this : an unbalanced lending environment in which bank credit be suck into high mortgage and away from more productive area of our economy , and the vast cost of homelessness and unaffordable housing , both to the state and to the people affect , who be deny the support that they need to unleash their potential . all of that be before we get on to the economic distortion cause by our broken housing market , with 80 % of household wealth belong to old generation , while the young generation see their earning disappear into sky - high rent and elevated mortgage rate , directly link to the decision make by this Tory Government . this Budget fail to grasp the nettle on housing . why be there next to nothing on our antiquated planning rule , which allow the minority who enjoy the security of a home of their own to deny that same right to the many thousand stick on housing waiting list ? why be there nothing on reform of the green belt , which in my constituency include a former oil site — far from green and pleasant land ? why under our current planning system be the need of Tory Back Benchers , the artificially construct green belt and other factor consider more sacred by the Government than the precious principle that each generation should do well than the last ? labour have a different set of priority . our commitment to reform planning rule , reintroduce house building target , build on the part of the green belt that be in fact far from green , and restore social housing as part of our effort to build 1 . 5 million home will be key driver in our mission to achieve the fast growth in the G7 . just think what that ambition will mean for our economy . accord to Oxford Economics , for every 100 , 000 new home build , more than 400 , 000 job will be create and tax revenue could rise by as much as £ 2 . 3 billion a year . but ambition be in short supply in this Budget . it be another opportunity waste by this government , but thankfully their opportunity be run out . it be time for change . it be time to build the home we need . it be time to build for growth . it be time for a Labour Government . after a pandemic and an unprecedented energy price hike cause by Putin ' s illegal war , what the Chancellor have achieve be remarkable . through careful stewardship , he have enable a whole new set of opportunity over the next five year for further tax cut , investment and sustain economic growth . tough decision when they be need make investment commitment and tax cut possible now . the only way spending and tax cut can be achieve sustainably be to achieve real growth in the economy . the false growth of the reckless bubble economy that we see under Gordon Brown end in an almighty bust of financial crisis and unemployment . we should not forget that the self - inflict , reckless boom and bust that we get from Labour add much more to public sector net debt than the combination of an energy crisis and an unavoidable pandemic that cost the taxpayer £ 400 billion . there be a very tell debt - to - gdp graph on page 19 of the Red Book . of course , it be only because conservative economic policy return we to a path of fall debt before the pandemic hit that that be affordable . the only time the previous Labour Government reduce debt be when they initially stick to conservative spending plan before turn on the tap a couple of year later , create false growth and an all - too - real and deep recession . stoke - on - Trent lose some of the large pottery on Earth as a result of Labour ' s mismanagement and self - inflict crisis . in contrast , under the Conservatives the gross value add of the ceramic sector have double in real term . we must not jeopardise that with an emission trading scheme that threaten similar damage to labour ' s climate change levy , from which ceramic be rightly exempt by George Osborne . we should not offshore the ceramics industry ' s emission and skilled job to country with bad environmental standard , but that be exactly what happen when taxis and regulation be too onerous here . I hope the Government will seriously consider exempt the ceramics industry from the ETS . there be good news in the Budget for local advanced manufacturing , include progress towards small modular reactor , which stand to benefit company in the supply chain of the world - lead engineering firm in Stoke - on - Trent . I be confident that the opportunity for further tax cut and investment in the year ahead open by this Budget will be realise by a re - elect conservative Government . we need spend commitment on capital infrastructure project — particularly in transport . the tax cut give a welcome relief to hard - press work people who have be shoulder the burden of price rise and mortgage cost for more than long enough . we have exceed expectation in north Staffordshire by secure the Government ' s commitment to fund the reopening of both Meir station and the Stoke to Leek line . when Labour be last in power it close local station at Etruria , Barlaston and Wedgwood — what a contrast . we be just month away from be able to put shovel in the ground to reopen a station at Meir on the Crewe to Derby line . I be determined that we will also get a station to serve the south - west of Stoke - on - Trent and north Staffordshire around Barlaston or Trentham . when the Work and Pensions Secretary recently visit Stoke - on - Trent , I say that well transport mean great access to skilled job . the new rail station , improvement to junction 15 of the m6 and upgrade of the a500 / A50 corridor be possible only thank to the cancellation of phase 2 of hs2 . additionally , £ 419 million for Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire be be reprioritise to fill pothole , tackle congestion at junction in place such as Meir and Blythe Bridge , invest in new paving for our high street , secure more preventive road maintenance , and provide more bus priority measure , build on the £ 31 million we have already secure through the bus service improvement plan . also , a new alternative provision free school be announce in the Budget . that will help ease the huge local pressure on AP and special educational need and disability school place across Stoke - on - Trent , ensure that more child receive the appropriate place for their need and reduce pressure on mainstream provision . only solid growth will sustainably support more people into employment , just as it will support more investment in our infrastructure and vital public service . I be delighted with the focus on tackle long - term unemployment , and on increase labour force participation , reward work and make it pay . as for invest in important public service , the Chancellor be rightly tackle the issue with his £ 3 . 4 billion digital transformation of the NHS , alongside the extra £ 2 . 5 billion of funding for our frontline NHS . I hope that investment will bolster more preventive and community - base NHS service . it be vital that in town such as Longton , we deliver fully on the new integrate care hub , which would bring all NHS service together under one roof . finally , I want to mention my private Member ' s Bill to improve our high street , which be progress through Committee this week . it be vital that we support the rejuvenation of our high street and help attract new use , so I particularly welcome the £ 5 , 000 increase in the vat registration threshold , which take it to £ 90 , 000 ; that be welcome by Staffordshire chamber of commerce . in conclusion , we can stick with the plan that be work — sensibly pay down debt , invest wisely , and cut taxis for family and business when that be affordable — or we can do what the Labour party , with its non - existent plan , have do since it take control of Stoke - on - Trent City Council : throw everything up in the air , and roll back important investment project and ambition for our city , while put up taxis to pay for its mistake . it be usually the Monday of a Budget debate on which the detail start to unravel , but just as with the selective amnesia that take hold in September and October 2022 , this Budget sort of unravelled as soon as the Chancellor sit down . that be not because of the enthusiasm of his delivery — he sound very much like a bored train announcer — but because of the three disgraceful omission from the Budget . we in this Parliament know that there be at least three issue that this Parliament should deal with before it end . the first , of course , be the infected blood scandal and compensation ; the second be the Post Office scandal and compensation for those catch up in that ; and the third , as we will discover in a debate tomorrow , be 1950s - bear woman . those be three big - ticket - expenditure item of compensation that will have to be deliver . if this Parliament do that , it might well be know as the justice Parliament , but the people catch up in those three issue be angry that £ 46 billion of unfunded tax cut have be give away — probably at their expense , they believe , because there be no mention of those injustice and how to correct they . it be no wonder that so many furious people catch up in those scandal have react to the Budget in the way they have . today ' s debate have be dominate by two world : the Government world , describe by member on the conservative Benches , and the real world , describe by hon . member on the Opposition Benches . I notice that not one Government Member mention the fact that the tax gap for those who should pay corporation tax have increase over the past couple of year . there may well be reason for that ; let we explore one of they . perhaps if the Government give the same funding to the operation in his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs that be responsible for go after the wealthy as they do to those deal with social security fraud , and employ the same number of people to do both , the corporation tax gap would not be increase , but would have reduce . however , the main and fundamental difference between member on the Opposition Benches and those on the Government Benches be that the latter do not understand what be happen in the country . People look at their energy bill , and see the energy company ' profit skyrocket . they look at bank ' profit , and they notice that their bank branch be close and that their mortgage be increase . they look at the ramping up of insurance premium , and the insurance company ' profit increase . then they see that the cost of food in supermarket be go up to an astronomical level — and so be the supermarket ' profit . these vast profit have not reduce price . it be suppose to be the great conservative party theory that if company make vast profit , price will reduce , but that have not happen in this cost of living crisis . that be why I believe , as my hon . friend do , that we really need to start look at an excess profit tax . until we do , people out there will feel that the Government be treat they as fool . it be time for the company make these vast profit to start pay their fair share . we have hear from Government Members that work have to pay . that be fascinating , come from the Government as an employer . the simple fact be that ten of thousand of worker employ by the state — by , for example , the Department for Work and Pensions or HMRC — believe that their employer , the Government , be a minimum - wage employer , because the only time they get an increase in their pay be when the so - call national living wage increase . it be unsustainable when those work for the state to administer and deliver social security benefit be on pay that be so low that they receive those same social security benefit , and that be a fact that no Government Member can deny . if the Government really want a serious conversation about make work pay , perhaps they can review their public sector pay policy . public sector pay be not a burden on the state or the taxpayer ; when the Government pay proper wage , people spend they in the private sector economy . if the Government really want to grow the economy , they could start by pay their worker well . what we see last week be a Budget with no vision , no plan for get we to net zero , no plan to drive investment in renewable and low - emission technology , no plan to boost the roll - out of electric vehicle , and no plan for retrofit home . the british people deserve well than that . the windfall tax on oil and gas profit that the Government extend by one year until 2029 will raise an additional £ 1 . 5 billion , accord to the Chancellor , as the tax , introduce in May 2022 , raise £ 2 . 6 billion in its first year . think what those billion could do if they be properly direct towards our net zero goal . the fund from the windfall tax could be ringfence for renewable energy , fix our grid , green skill training and secure the well - pay job of the future — our green transition — but they just disappear into a Treasury black hole . when will the Government end the absurd practice of subsidy for industrial - scale wood burn ? we hear nothing about this in the Budget last week . drax power station burn wood pellet import from north America to produce energy . it have have a subsidy of £ 11 billion of taxpayer ' money , and it be consider a renewable energy power station . Drax depend on Government subsidy for its support . when Drax be a coal power plant , it emit 10 million tonne of carbon . in 2022 , Drax , now burn wood , emit 12 million tonne of carbon . Drax be the UK ' s big emitter of CO2 . the fund that subsidise Drax could be redirect to fund genuinely green and renewable technology , but under this government , these fund be fuel the climate crisis . my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) give an excellent speech , include on the crisis in live music venue . I support the tax credit for the film industry , the video game industry and orchestra . why be there not a tax credit for live music venue ? we Labour Members have a vision for Britain of a green sustainable energy future , and we have a plan to deliver it . labour will introduce a proper windfall tax on the massive profit of oil and gas company . in government , Labour will go far than the Conservatives and raise the windfall tax on oil and gas profit from 75 % to 78 % until 2029 . a Labour Government will create a new national wealth fund , with £ 7 . 3 billion to be invest in the job that can rebuild Britain ' s industrial strength . we will crowd in private investment in our port , gigafactorie and hydrogen , and protect our steel industry , which the Government have allow to fail . labour will create Great British Energy , a new publicly own energy company that will champion green energy to give we real energy independence . great British Energy will invest in and deliver project in partnership with the private sector . with our commitment to an ambitious £ 8 . 3 billion capitalisation of great British Energy , we will invest in clean , home - grow power , which will cut Britain ' s energy bill . great British Energy will invest in lead - edge clean energy technology , such as float offshore wind , hydrogen and tidal . labour be committed to clean power by 2030 , and will pioneer offshore tidal by fast - tracking at least 5 GW of capacity , more than double our onshore wind capacity to 35 GW , more than triple solar power to 50 GW , and quadruple offshore wind ; our ambition be for 55 GW . we will also double the Government ' s target on green hydrogen , so that there be 10 GW particularly for use in the steel industry . labour ' s british job bonus plan will boost new clean energy job . clean energy developer will be reward with a british job bonus if they invest in good job and supply chain here at home . labour will allocate a fund of up to £ 500 million , start in 2025 - 26 , to invest in those industry , and it will guarantee 35 , 000 new job in those industry . the Government steal a number of Labour policy last week , so perhaps they will think about those one as well . they have clearly miss an opportunity to create our energy transition . after 14 year of conservative failure on climate change , Labour be ready to invest in Britain ' s clean energy future . we be ready to make Britain a world leader on climate change , drive investment in renewable and low - emission technology , transform our energy sector to lower our power bill , and create good clean energy job for Britain ' s future . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) . I give my maiden speech in the Budget debate this time last year , so I be feel a little reflective and reminiscent , and I have find myself reflect on the past year and on what have change . in what state do we find the economy , a year on ? supermarket price be still rise , living standard be fall , the tax burden be at record high , and there be still no real sign of interest rate come down to where they be before the Tory mini - Budget tank the economy . but one thing have change : the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have manage to put the country into recession . at a time when every other economy in the G7 except one be grow , the conservative party have fall asleep at the wheel , and the UK economy be get small as a result . have the UK economy grow at the average rate of OECD nation over the past decade , it would be £ 140 billion large today . that would have contribute an additional £ 50 billion in tax revenue to invest in our public service . let we be clear : the economic issue we face today be the result of 14 year of mismanagement of the country ' s finance . the Government be out of idea , and fast run out of time . the economic reality that we face in Britain today be a pale and weak imitation of the sunny upland promise by the conservative party at every election since 2010 . Britain have always be a country where we be proud to pay our taxis . we understand that by contribute from what we earn , we fund the public service that we all rely on — road , school , the NHS . so with taxis at their high since the war , Britain ' s public service must be the envy of the world , right ? sadly not . they be creak at the seam . time and again , I hear from constituent how hard it be to get an appointment with a doctor or register with a dentist . school budget have be strip to the bone , and teacher be have to fund pen and pencil from their own pocket . our road be litter with pothole . many route in West Lancashire be border on dangerous , give the state they have be leave in . taxis be at record high and public service be on their knee . the national debt have treble since 2010 . the Government be give work people a raw deal . the state of our economy be not an accident , but a choice . conservative Chancellors choose to impose austerity on public service and to let the covid fraudster get away with billion of taxpayer ' money . it be a Conservative Chancellor who rush through the " kamikwasi " Budget , crash the economy . those be choice that the conservative party make know that work people would foot the bill . I be glad that the Chancellor decide to draw inspiration from the Labour Benches . scrap the non - dom status be a choice that we on this side can get behind , but why have it take so long ? the shadow Chancellor have be call for non - dom to pay their fair share for two year . that be £ 6 billion that the Chancellor have leave on the table — £ 6 billion that could have be fund our school , hospital and road , and use to relieve the pressure on household bill . face with the bad poll rating on record , the Chancellor be so desperate to cut national insurance that he have introduce a policy on non - dom that he have consistently argue against since get his job . he have even promise to abolish national insurance altogether , but that leave a £ 46 billion unfunded hole in the economy . work people be still bad off . for every £ 5 the Chancellor give with one hand , he take £ 10 with the other . the average family will be £ 870 bad off under his plan . it get bad : someone with a mortgage in Tory Britain in 2024 will have hundred of pound add to their bill . this summer , we be set to see even more mortgage get even high at the end of their term . there be nothing in the Budget for parent , the elderly or first - time buyer ; in fact , I be not sure what the Budget have for anyone . there be certainly nothing for the loan charge or infected blood scandal — not much at all , other than gimmick and unfunded promise . whether at by - election or in the polling , it be the Labour party that voter be choose to trust with the economy . it be about time the Government give they a chance to decide . it be time for a general election . it be disappointing to see the Government again attempt to pull the wool over the eye of my constituent in Somerton and Frome . go into the Budget , the public be clear : they desperately want the crisis affect our public service to be prioritise . but once again , the Government have neglect to address it . the Office for Budget Responsibility state that public spending per head have fall by £ 680 in the past three year . the Budget do nothing to rectify that and nothing to provide an immediate fix for our NHS . in fact , the extra £ 2 . 5 billion only avert a real - term cut and be not an increase on this year ' s spending . by the end of 2023 , 2 . 8 million people in the UK be economically inactive for health reason — 700 , 000 more since before the covid pandemic . if we want to grow the economy , we need to fix the NHS , but once again the Government refuse to do that . my constituent in Somerton have be unable to see a dentist for over four year . that be simply not good enough , but it be no surprise give that there be a near 17 % decline in the number of dentist in Somerset between 2015 - 16 and 2022 - 23 . currently , there be just one dentist in Somerset for almost 2 , 000 patient , leave many people without access to care and in dental agony . the issue be also prevalent in Lewes , where the dentist crisis have become so severe that the Ringmer dental practice will be offer only private treatment . the practice blame a " chronic lack of investment " in NHS dentistry . this be a disgrace . with the tax burden already at its high since the second world war through unfair Tory stealth taxis , the liberal Democrats would seek to properly fund our public service in a fair way . we would reverse the conservative tax cut for the big bank , which could generate £ 18 billion over five year . we would also put a proper windfall tax on oil and gas giant , generate a furth £ 15 billion over five year . the Chancellor ' s promise 1 % growth in public spending totally fail to recognise the pressure that the country be face . the Budget be so short - sighted . I agree with the former liberal Democrat leader and Business Secretary Vince Cable who say that the Budget leave a " booby trap " as it fail to recognise the pressure that an age population will place on our public service . like many rural county , Somerset have an age population , and the average age in Somerton and Frome be 54 year . spiral financial pressure on adult social care be ever - increase — that have be constantly and loudly raise by leader in local government — yet the Government have fail once again to recognise and understand that . two care home — one locally in Frome in my constituency and the other just outside — have recently warn that they may have to close due to significant financial pressure , potentially leave nearly 70 vulnerable and elderly resident displace . those care home provide an essential service . if they close , resident will have nowhere to go locally . it should not have to be like this . why be we leave our elderly with such pressure at a time when the system should be there to look after and care for they ? ultimately , it be clear that the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have provide a Budget that do not offer people security in the public service they rely on . the system be break . the situation be not sustainable . the Government have squeeze service dry and merely pay lip service to those who rely on they . I hope that the Prime Minister do not bottle it like his Chancellor but call a May election so that my constituent get the change of Government they deserve . Mr Deputy Speaker , " the Budget be an opportunity for a Government to demonstrate their priority , and what we see yesterday be a Conservative Government content to oversee the manage decline of the economy " . — [ Official Report , 16 March 2023 ; Vol . 729 , c . 1049 . ] it be nearly a year since I say those word about the Chancellor ' s last spring Budget . what have change ? quite simply , nothing . the Chancellor fail to announce anything that will significantly improve the life of people live in Luton South and Bedfordshire . his Budget just lift the lid on 14 year of tory economic failure : a Conservative Government in their end day , bereft of idea , lack in vision , consume by their own internal strife . we be head for this be the only Parliament on record in which people will be on average bad off at the end than they be at the start . that should make Government member feel ashamed . I take issue with the Chancellor state that the Conservatives bring down taxis , as the UK have its high tax burden in 70 year and it will rise in every year of the Budget ' s forecast period . all in all , what the Budget actually mean for my constituent be that each household be now £ 870 bad off under the Conservatives ' tax plan . for every 5p give in tax cut , 10p have be take — give with one hand and take more with the other . the Conservatives follow that up by say they have a plan to abolish national insurance contribution altogether : an unfunded pledge cost the taxpayer a gigantic £ 46 billion . the reality be that the Conservatives can not be trust to run Britain . public service be be run down , local government be on its knee and work people be battle the cost of living crisis , try to make end meet . community like mine in Luton and Bedfordshire know that that be not just the story come out of the Budget ; it be the continue story of the conservative party dismantle our community and wreck our economy over the past 14 year . for they , it be always party first , country second . the big issue that my constituent contact I about be the lack of affordable housing to rent and council housing waiting list , yet in this Budget the Chancellor have wind down the scheme for extra funding for the delivery of social housing and end the policy of let local authority keep 100 % of revenue from the sale of council home to help they build more . that will heap further pressure on our already overstretch , underfunded local authority , and it will do little to help family live in overcrowded , poor - quality , insecure housing . as I say in my Budget speech a year ago , the Budget represent a huge opportunity to break from year of stagnation and unlock Britain ' s potential , but that opportunity be well and truly ignore . I may sound like a broken record , but the reality be that we have a broken government who simply be not up to the challenge . it be our job in this place to advocate for policy that enable our constituent to live a good , fulfil life . that mean a good job , a secure home , safe street , quality public service and a thriving economy . the Conservatives have fail on all count . enough be enough . People in Luton and Bedfordshire need a change in government . instead of the chaos and recklessness under the Conservatives , Labour be ready to fight for the living standard of work people and to deliver a sustainable plan for growth . we will rebuild our ability to make , do and sell more here in Britain , so that we be less expose to global shock . we will strengthen the power available to local community to regenerate their high street and town centre . our plan also back british business through a new industrial strategy to maximise Britain ' s strength in the life science , the digital , creative and financial industry , clean power and the automotive sector . that be the bright future that Luton , Bedfordshire and Britain deserve . it be time to quit the uncertainty and call a general election now . I will touch first on art funding . as a Member of Parliament who have a number of art institution base in my Glasgow Central constituency , I gently welcome the theatre , orchestra , museum and gallery exhibition tax relief . the Royal Scottish National Orchestra have say that the relief " ensure the RSNO remain committed to serve Scotland ' s community , concert hall and school . " however , that come in a wide context , as the Musicians ' Union have point out , of cut to the art over many year . it have talk about the impact of a decade of austerity . General secretary Naomi Pohl say that she fear " frankly , we be stuff " if a Labour Government do not put money into the art . there need to be some change to ensure that our music and art venue can continue . the RSNO have do a huge amount to diversify what it do . it be involve in make music for motion picture , as well as fill concert hall in the city of Glasgow and other place besides . it have ask that the UK Government consider proposal to exempt employer in the cultural sector from national insurance , which would encourage company to bring worker often use on a freelance basis into employment . that be particularly important give how many freelancer , particularly female freelancer , be exclude from support during covid . I leave that for minister to consider . will Ministers go far on vat to encourage people back out to enjoy cultural event and bring life back to our city and town centre ? music ticket have 20 % vat on they be a real inhibitor to that . this Budget should have be a moment to bridge the funding gap for our public service , which they so desperately need . instead , the Budget appear more concerned with set trap for a future Labour Government . the conservative party be once again bring its own naked political interest into government , and we be all leave pay the cost . it be money for Canary Wharf , not the Calton , or Cowcaddens or Kinning Park . the concern raise by organisation such as the Child Poverty Action Group should not be ignore . the stark reality be that there be little in the Budget to address the crisis condition be experience by child and family live in poverty . the Chancellor ' s claim that the Government do not pass their bill on to the next generation ring particularly hollow when 4 . 2 million child live in poverty in the UK today . who do he think will be this next generation ? the decision take in this Budget risk leave a legacy of million of young people live with the scar and the real harm of grow up in poverty : hunger , poor educational outcome , the health risk associate with cold and damp home , and stagnant economic growth lead to few opportunity . the Glasgow Centre for Population Health have comment particularly movingly on this lose 10 year of austerity and its impact on public health . it say that it could take another 10 year just to get we back to where we be in 2011 . opportunity have be lose for so many people as a result . I call on the government yet again , as I do at every Budget , to scrap the two - child limit on universal credit . at the moment , 222 , 000 family be affect by the policy , which be life limit and damaging . it be make it more difficult for large family to put food on the table , and it be drive they to almost impossible choice . the Government must scrap it . equally shameful be that the Labour party will not scrap it , either . those young people be be condemn to a life live in poverty . that be not good enough , and the Government should do well . they could bring in the equivalent of the scottish child payment , which be now £ 26 . 70 per child per week for eligible family . it be help to keep those family out of the food bank and protect the life chance of those child . they could increase the healthy start benefit to the level of good start food , so that family do not have to go to food bank to get infant formula , as they could afford those thing if they require they . there be a serious gendere impact of the Government ' s policy . the Women ' s Budget Group have highlight the regressive nature of cut to national insurance . the cut disproportionately affect lone mother and couple with child . single man will receive around £ 500 more than a lone mother , and couple without child will receive more than £ 1 , 200 more per year than family . half the benefit go to the wealthy household , and only 3 % to the poor . yet again , the Government ' s cut taxis for Tory voter on the back of the people who can afford it the very least be warp . there need to be a lot more support for public service and infrastructure , great cost of live measure and a just transition . the OBR point out that there be " no real growth in departmental spending per person over the next five year . " this Tory Government be commit to that , and Labour be committed to copy and paste that policy . Scotland deserve well than this break , break Westminster Government . we want well than a UK that have be declare the world ' s second most miserable country , behind Uzbekistan , with 35 % of respondent distress or struggle at the bad . in Scotland we think of what we could have : ireland with its budget surplus , and Norway with its oil fund . Scotland deserve much well than this . we deserve independence . unsurprisingly , Jim Shannon be the last Back - Bench contributor . we have a bit more time , so I be not put on a time limit ; I know the hon . member will not abuse my generosity . could any Member who have participate in the debate start to make their way to the Chamber for the wind - up ? thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will not tax the patience or endurance of my fellow member , and my contribution will be the same length as other . it be a real pleasure to speak in this debate on the spring Budget deliver by the Chancellor last week . it be important that we be here individually and collectively to speak on this issue , and I must ensure that all my constituent feel support financially . my office have receive a large amount of email , letter and phone call about how so many people be struggle , especially over the last couple of month . that have be echo by member on both side of the Chamber , but particularly on the Opposition Benches , and I think we really understand our constituent . I would also like to thank the Chancellor , as these decision be not easy to take , but regardless of that , there be need that must be meet . I be very pleased to hear about the step take to move in the right direction on the child benefit threshold . member , include the Minister , will be aware that last year I introduce a 10 - minute rule Bill , which call for threshold to be determine by household income instead of individual income . there be many , on both side of the Chamber , who hold a similar opinion . it be good news that the Chancellor and the Government recognise that . the Bill aim to highlight the unfairness of the current threshold , whereby a single - income home earn £ 50 , 000 or above would not receive an entitlement , but a dual - income home earn £ 49 , 000 each would be in receipt of the payment . that be a real anomaly and I be very pleased that the Chancellor , the Government and other with the power to change the legislation have do so . it be no secret that I be very passionate about this issue . I have raise it on numerous occasion over the past few year . while this be welcome news , I look to the Minister for further clarity on the household income level in term of inflation . the increase to the low threshold be positive , but if working - class family do not notice the difference in line with inflation , they be ultimately still go to struggle . perhaps the Minister could provide we with some clarity on that . many have express gratitude at the decision to cut national insurance at the start of the new tax year . I be go to give a slightly different opinion , base on correspondence from my constituent . I emphasise that , in line with the rate of inflation , it be about ensure the benefit of the cut be truly feel . for instance , one hon . Member say that the cut would not help the elderly , because they do not pay national insurance at pension age . I have also speak to many health professional who have openly say that , on the basis that our NHS and so on would be properly fund , they would not mind continue to pay the current rate of national insurance . give the lack of funding in our NHS , there be many who would be willing to pay just that little bit extra to get more efficient local service . perhaps that be something the Minister could consider . I know there be a consensus among many in the Chamber that national insurance contribution should be cut or stop , but I think they could be use for something well . my position would be to retain they as they be . perhaps the Minister could look at that and ascertain how much well off our constituent could be . another issue relate to the 4 million people live in oil - heated home in rural community such as my constituency , who want to do their bit for the environment . Most people I speak to , whatever their class in society , want to do something for the environment , but they be be disincentivise from adopt renewable liquid fuel . currently , renewable liquid fuel that have low carbon emission be tax , while fossil fuel heating oil be not . scrap the tax on renewable liquid fuel in the Budget would have reduce their cost and make they a viable alternative to use fossil fuel . that , again , be perhaps an anomaly in the Chancellor ' s speech , and one that need to be address . the Government can still ensure that off - grid household can decarbonise in an affordable manner by deliver the renewable liquid heating fuel obligation consultation . assurance be give by Ministers during the Report stage of the Energy Bill that the Government would move to a consultation in " the next few month " . that be over six month ago . I figure that a " few month " be less than six month . therefore , I suggest that we should have some indication of what be happen . perhaps the Minister could explain why this be a miss opportunity in the spring Budget . will he also provide assurance on when the RLHFO consultation will be publicise and we will have an idea about what exactly it will mean ? these decision be never easy to take and we be grateful for the effort make . however , my party , the Democratic Unionist party , and I be a strong voice for all family , but in particular working - class family . why be that ? it be because most of we on the Opposition Benches — there will be some on the other side of the House — never have very much for most of their life . when I speak for my constituent who be work class , I speak on the basis of knowledge and a genuine interest . the working - class family in my constituency hope to reap the benefit of these decision , and I want that to happen , but there be much to be do to enable it to happen . I hope that the Minister and his Department can provide the answer to the query that have be pose today . let we make a real change not just for my constituent in Strangford , but for all family in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . there be much to welcome in the Budget , but there be some point that need clarification . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport to open the wind - up speech . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . this evening I will be tell a positive economic story , one that be about commercial growth and success alongside community benefit — a strong story of what Labour do in power in partnership with the private sector — but let I say first that there can be no avoid the catastrophe that be this Budget and , indeed , this Government for the people of Bristol and for the whole country . a record low for living standard , GDP per capita low since the Prime Minister take office , debt triple — nothing in the Budget will change any of that . as we have hear from member include my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) , for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) , for Birkenhead ( Mick Whitley ) , for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) , for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) and for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , everything be break . work people be struggle under the cost of living crisis , public service be in turmoil , crime be make our street unsafe , housing cost be high , mortgage be rise and homelessness be increase as a direct result of Government action . my constituent — our constituent — be live through this , experience rise rent and soar food price because of the shamble that be this Government . their failure to take responsibility almost beggar belief . have we not lose nearly two decade of wage growth , the average worker would have be £ 1 , 400 well off in 2023 than in 2008 , not accord to I but accord to the Resolution Foundation . just imagine what family up and down the country might have do with that money , but could not . imagine the holiday they have not take , the show they have not see , the match they have not be in the stand for — the joy that we have collectively miss out on . however , it do not have to be like this . culture and sport be part of what make life worth live . in the UK we sing spectacular song , write spell - bind story and make first - rate film . our remarkable architecture give we a sense of place , heritage and history , and our game industry immerse we in world of the future and the past through frontier technology . international company base themselves here so that their staff can enjoy the UK ' s rich and diverse cultural scene . everyone , everywhere in the country , have some stake in culture and sport , whether it be the first song at their wedding or get catch up in the drama of watch the Lionesses play in a World cup final . my colleague from different part of the country have highlight the importance of music venue , and I thank they for that . culture and sport bring we joy , and they bring we together . culture , sport and medium also have a significant contribution to make to the health and economic growth of our great nation . I have see that when campaign for and visit Labour ' s candidate — Keir Cozens in Great Yarmouth , Heidi Alexander and Will Stone in Swindon , Jayne Kirkham in Truro and Falmouth , and Josh Fenton - Glynn in Calder Valley . labour parliamentary candidate have show I around their cultural and sporting organisation . they really get this . they be already champion in their community . Simon Opher in Stroud , Catherine Fookes in Monmouthshire , Rachel Blake in Westminster and Claire Hazelgrove in Filton and Bradley Stoke , as well as so many other , have talk to I with passion and knowledge about what they see as the detrimental effect of 14 year of Tory rule : government cut to play field , local venue , local charity and youth service . I can not wait to see those candidate in this place , stand up for their community . on this side of the House , we know that culture , medium and sport be economic powerhouse . if they be give true champion , as all our candidate would be , these industry can still soar higher . for example , the creative industry be already worth £ 125 billion to our economy . they be a major employer , support 2 . 5 million job across the UK . the Edinburgh Fringe be worth about £ 1 billion to Scotland . the english premier league and its club contribute £ 8 billion to the UK economy in 2021 - 22 , and account for broadcast export of £ 1 . 4 billion in 2019 - 20 — to say nothing of its soft power abroad . our public service broadcaster — the BBC , Channel 4 , ITV , S4C and Channel 5 — invest £ 2 . 9 billion in new UK - base content in 2023 , despite cut from the conservative party . the video game industry in Dundee have bring with it a 57 % increase in productivity in the city . imagine that , or even just a fraction of it , across this country — what we could do . the 16 major sporting event support by UK Sport in 2023 generate £ 373 million in direct economic impact . the UK win 226 medal at those event , which include the first ever blind football world championship for woman . Film making in Northern Ireland pump £ 330 million directly into the regional economy between 2018 and 2022 . basketball in the UK be already experience unprecedented growth : the british basketball league have see a 200 % increase in viewership and sell out arena . audiovisual medium in Cardiff have an annual turnover of over £ 540 million across more than 1 , 300 firm , and it be to Cardiff that I want to take we today with a story . in 2015 , Jane Tranter and Julie Gardner launch Bad Wolf , which I visit last week . I get to step inside the TARDIS , which be really cool . the prelude to this story be a decision take in 2005 by those same woman . while work at the BBC , Jane and Julie take the decision to produce the newly reboot " Doctor who " in Cardiff , which change Wales . Cardiff University researcher have pinpoint that decision as the moment when south Wales ' s creative cluster shift to world - recognise excellence . it pave the way for the first purpose - build drama studio in Wales and a BBC broadcasting hub in Cardiff , with multiple UK and international creative company choose to base themselves in south Wales , but I be give away the ending to the story . in 2015 , 10 year after the decision about " Doctor who " , Julie and Jane set out to start their own company . they want it to be base in Wales , because they know the place , trust the crew and know that traditional investor do not have the same level of trust . private investment be usually contingent on a company be base close to traditional production centre such as London or Los Angeles , but they be commit to Wales because it make good business sense and because they see an opportunity to be transformational for community . Julie and Jane could create job opportunity that span generation , and give south Wales a local economy that it could be proud of and rely on for the first time since the mine close , so they partner with Wales ' s Labour Government to set up in Cardiff . poetically , they use the site of a defunct factory that previously manufacture glass tube for television . Wales ' s Labour Government and Bad Wolf then build on their partnership to create Wolf Studios Wales . the aim be to expand Welsh production capacity to help continue to achieve cinematic production value on television budget , which they have most definitely achieve . they ensure that production be consistent across the year , offer job security and career development across career . in the five year between 2015 and 2020 , Bad Wolf spend £ 121 million in Wales and generate £ 114 million of gross value add for the Welsh economy . in that five - year period , the company employ 3 , 405 people in some of the highest - pay job in the country . it have sustainability and circular economy principle at the heart of its business , broaden access to career in the creative industry through its training programme with Screen Alliance Wales . bad Wolf have be a magnet for many kind of company , from special effect to logistic , and 38 % of local supplier have feel confident to relocate or locate to south Wales because it be there . bad Wolf have also bring joy to million of we . " Doctor who " , " a Discovery of Witches " , " Industry " and " his Dark Materials " be all down to that incredible team , but the Labour Government in Wales play a pivotal role . the reason I tell this story in some detail be because that be what we could do across the country with real champion and partnership between a Labour Government , the private sector and creative people . People make art ; government do not . but what the Welsh Labour Government do in this case be to support an environment where creative people and business could thrive , and in do so they bring job and economic development to Wales . that mean bring the TARDIS , the city of Citt à gazze , the sonic screwdriver and Canary Wharf into the heart of south Wales . great thing start with story , whether they be dream up or play out on the pitch . great drama be unsurpassable — one of our key strength in this country . instead of fluctuate between ignore , denigrate and occasionally recognise our world - lead cultural and sporting institution , as the Conservatives do , a Labour Government would celebrate they . a Labour Government would work in partnership with they to support their growth and the great job that that growth would bring . we want british fashion , theatre , sport , architecture , journalism , gaming and publish to enjoy a decade of national renewal and growth so that they can do even more for british worker and audience . the Government try to make this look like a giveaway Budget for the creative industry , but continuation of what already exist — glad as I be to see they — and one - off capital injection be not a panacea . they do not make up for the last 14 year and they do not come close to make up for soar energy bill and high inflation . uncertainty , instability and economic mismanagement have make the UK less attractive for investment . the Government treat art , culture , sport , medium and the creative industry with disdain , and there be no well illustration of this than the fact that there have be 13 secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport in 14 year . that be the high turnover of any Cabinet - level post , which for this Government be really say something . the now Chancellor be the only one who make it over the two - year mark , and the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) do not even make it to six month . another Secretary of State be the former Member for Mid Bedfordshire , who after make frankly wild statement , disappear and leave the next two postholder to try to roll back her decision . her irresponsible decision to sell off Channel 4 be stop , but she fracture the relationship between Government and the creative industry , and it will take so much long to heal than it do to break . the Government have consistently fail to recognise and realise the growth potential of the creative industry and of sport . they have prevaricate over bring forward the football governance Bill , which have be lose down the back of the governmental sofa , thereby fail to put football fan first and support the beautiful game . on their watch , local journalism have decline , reduce the ability of our medium sometimes to call we out but always to scrutinise we , and their half - hearte attempt to protect creator in a change technological landscape have largely disintegrate . in tolerate this litany of failure , the Conservatives and the Prime Minister be fail to grasp the opportunity for growth . part of that growth will involve harness the power of AI and other new technology . labour believe in both human - centre creativity and the potential of AI to unlock new frontier . copyright and intellectual property right be how we protect the raw material of the creative industry — creative output and imagination — and we will support , maintain and promote the UK ' s strong copyright regime , include in trade deal with other country . while the Conservatives be in power the cultural life of this country get hollow out because elitism do not bother they , but as my hon . friend have say , there be no reason why a young person bear in the poor part of this country should be any less capable or have any less potential than those bear in the rich part . the investment that Jane and Julie make in Bad Wolf be follow up with time , investment , teaching and engagement with young people to show they that there be exciting well - pay job on their doorstep and beyond and to make they feel part of this . today my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) show that we will put this into practice at school with subject such as music , art , sport and drama , which help to build confidence , communication skill , critical thinking , problem solving and teamwork . creativity and physical activity be not optional . they be essential . they bring we joy , and it be joy that make life worth live . everyone , everywhere should be able to share in that joy , and a Labour Government will foster a decade of national renewal with art , sport and creativity at its heart . together , we will paint , perform , play , sail , swim , film , sing , run , dance , design and write a new , more prosperous and more joyous story for Britain . it be my pleasure to close the second full day of debate on this year ' s spring Budget . this be a Budget for long - term growth , and today we have hear a number of excellent speech about the importance of growth in our economy . despite multiple forecaster suggest that growth would be historically poor , our economy grow last year and will grow this year and every year until the end of the next period . that be because we be recover from the global pandemic shock of recent year far well than anyone expect . inflation be down to 4 % and be on track to hit the 2 % target by the end of q2 . mortgage rate have come down from their peak , real wage be rise and the IMF have already predict that we will grow fast than Germany , France and Italy in the next five year . I recognise that we be live through a level of geopolitical uncertainty and risk that , for many of we , be unprecedented in our lifetime . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) say , we be navigate choppy water . as we seek to balance optimism with uncertainty , we seek to pave a path towards responsible , sustainable growth that will support family and firm in every part of this country . to that end , this Budget have three key objective : to reward work , to grow the economy , and to improve public sector productivity . these objective work together , because high growth mean more opportunity , more prosperity and more funding for public service . that be why we be cut national insurance contribution again for work people , because a simple , fair tax system must be at the heart of our economy , as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Hampshire ( Mr Jayawardena ) have consistently champion . it will mean more money in people ' s pocket , more revenue for business and more growth in our economy . just as importantly , it will send a clear and unequivocal message that work must always pay . this be a fundamental conservative value , as be our support for family . my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) make a powerful speech about the importance of the institution of the family , which be something on which he and I have consistently agree . we have hear many comment about specific industry today , and this Budget contain a suite of measure , across sector and industry , to keep our economy grow . the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , who be sadly not in her place , mention life science , and I can tell she that , build on the £ 520 million of funding announce for the life science manufacturing sector in last year ' s autumn statement , in this Budget we have announce £ 84 million of joint government and industry investment from exist fund . the Chancellor announce in the Budget speech that AstraZeneca intend to invest £ 650 million in Cambridge and Liverpool to boost our life science sector and to support the innovation so brilliantly champion by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) . several Members recognise the support for the creative industry . there be one thing that we do well than almost any other country , and that be make film and television . from " Pride and Prejudice " to " Paddington 2 " , our creative industry make we a soft - power superpower , but they be also a key driver of economic growth that support more than 2 million job domestically . that be why we have announce a film studio business rate relief to reduce bill by some 40 % , a tax credit for UK independent film , and more funding for the National Film and Television School . this government will also make the current tax relief for theatre , museum and gallery exhibition and orchestra permanent from 1 April 2025 . no other country provide tax relief for orchestra , museum and gallery as we do . this be a Budget for the performance sector , and we be subject to a characteristic 40 - minute performance by the shadow Health Secretary , who be , sadly , no long in his place . sometimes people talk too much but say too little . in 40 minute , he fail to mention that in Wales , where Labour be in charge of the NHS , people be almost twice as likely to be wait for treatment as they be in NHS England . this Conservative Budget be deliver £ 2 . 5 billion extra for the NHS and invest £ 3 . 4 billion to unlock £ 30 billion of productivity gain . investment be go into place such as the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) , who give a brilliant speech about the diagnostic centre at Hereford County Hospital , and into maternity service , as champion consistently by my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) . my Lincolnshire neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings , ask how we be support pensioner . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) point out , we be do that through the triple lock , which we introduce several year ago . the state pension will increase by 8 . 5 % in April and be £ 3 , 500 high than it be in 2010 . as my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) highlight , we be take action to boost pension return through the Mansion House compact and a series of other capital market reform . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) give an excellent speech about support small business , and rightly highlight the Chancellor ' s decision to increase vat threshold from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 . my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) highlight the importance of the rural economy and speak comprehensively about the damage the Labour party do to our economy up to 2010 . I would genuinely like to congratulate all member from across the House on their contribution this evening , but I particularly appreciate the brass - neck wind - up from the official Opposition . let we never forget that in 2010 Labour leave office with few people in work , more debt to pay off and a deficit ballooning out of control . let we contrast that with the UK in 2024 , where , despite have to deal with the bad pandemic in 100 year , the bad war in mainland Europe since 1945 and the high energy spike since the 1970 , this year we will have : inflation back to target ; unemployment at record low ; wage rise ; taxis on work fall ; 4 million more people on a payroll since 2010 ; 3 million few people pay any income tax at all ; the fast decarbonisation in the G7 ; the high state pension we have ever see ; and total departmental spending up 7 % in cash term this Parliament . the last thing this country need now be five year ' hard labour . for it be the Conservatives who will push people up who want to succeed , not pull they down when they do succeed ; who believe in the dignity of work , which well deliver prosperity ; and who know that growth can not and should not solely come from the Floor of this House of Commons , but instead should come from the thermal insulation factory floor of Darlington and the ceramics factory floor of Stoke - on - Trent . the worker and business will drive our growth . this be a Budget for they , and I commend it to the House . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . business without Debate Business of the House Ordered , that notice of amendment , new Clauses and new schedule to be move in Committee in respect of the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill may be accept by the Clerks at the table before it have be read a second time . — ( Mike Wood . ) Joint Committee on Human Rights Ordered , that David Simmonds be discharge from the Joint Committee on Human Rights and Miss Sarah Dines be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Treasury Ordered , that Emma Hardy be discharge from the Treasury Committee and Samantha Dixon be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Zero Total Allowable catch : Pollack Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to bring this debate to the House . the subject might be consider fairly niche , but it be incredibly important to many people in my constituency and across Cornwall . it be suggest my opening line should be , " never mind the pollack — here ' s the Adjournment debate , " but of course I could not possibly say that . I begin by thank the Minister . I be grateful to he for respond to the debate . he have be willing to engage and meet with colleague who have seek to raise concern about the issue over many week . I thank he for his engagement — I hope it will not end now — as he have be work with we to find a solution to the challenge . he be aware that the decision to have zero total allowable catch for pollack , which be make in December and take effect from 1 January , be damage the livelihood of many fisherman in Cornwall . it be estimate that upwards of 40 boat that either operate out of or land their catch in Mevagissey , Newquay and Fowey , in my constituency , rely on pollack catch for a significant amount of their income . as have be report by the medium , the Hunkin family have say that they stand to lose around £ 200 , 000 this year alone from the decision to have zero quota for pollack , which represent about two third of their total revenue . in fact , the issue affect fishery across Cornwall . in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) , boat would operate from Padstow and Port Isaac , and in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) , boat would operate from Looe , Polperro , and , in the far west , Newlyn . the decision be have a serious impact . although pollack be catch from many port around the UK , the decision have have a disproportionate impact on the inshore fishing fleet that operate out of Cornwall . we all accept that the recommendation by the International Council for the Exploration of the Seas that pollack should have a zero quota put Ministers and official from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs in an incredibly difficult position . after that recommendation be make , it would have be very difficult for the UK not to go along with it . we all acknowledge that . however , as a result of that decision , many fisherman have their ability to make a living take away overnight . to put that in perspective , the 570 tonne of pollack quota that be available to vessel operate from cornish port represent a loss of £ 2 . 3 million to the cornish economy . that loss impact not only fisherman , but supply - chain business that serve and support the fishing industry . the harbourmaster at Mevagissey , Andrew Trevarton , have estimate that the loss of pollack quota will result in a loss of 20 % of Mevagissey harbour ' s income , and there be no prospect of an easy way to replace that income . it be difficult to overstate how important have a thriving , operate fishing port at Mevagissey be to the economy of that village . it attract about 800 , 000 visitor every year , largely because it be a living , operate fishing port — not a museum , but a thriving part of the fishing industry in Cornwall . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . I speak to he beforehand . as he rightly say , issue with pollack fishing seem to be more prevalent in the south - west . in Northern Ireland , we do not have the same concern . despite that , allow certain fish to be catch only as bycatch be impact the livelihood of local fisherman . do he agree that if these issue start to arise far afield than the south - west — for example , in fishing port in Northern Ireland — and the Minister tonight decide to assist the hon . Gentleman , the same grant and opportunity should extend to all area of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? the case that I be make be on a very specific issue : the impact on a specific part of our fishing industry of the removal of the pollack quota at such short notice . we all want a thriving fishing sector right across the United Kingdom . we want fisherman and business that support the sector to thrive and be profitable right across the UK . we need policy that enable that to happen , but what we face in Cornwall and other part of the south - west be very specific . it relate to the short timeframe in which vessel and fisherman must adapt , because the quota go from 1 , 500 tonne to zero virtually overnight . I congratulate my constituency neighbour on securing tonight ' s much - need Adjournment debate . one fisherman say to I that it be as though his right leg have be amputate , and he must now get through the rest of the year on crutch , until we can find a way through this situation . do my hon . friend agree that all the option that we have be offer so far mean only a displacement to different specie and way of catch fish , and will therefore not be of any help to the long - term prospect of the fishing industry in Cornwall ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and neighbour for make the very next point that I be go to come to . one of the suggestion that have be make to the fisherman who have be affect by the decision be that they can switch to target other specie . that be simple to say , but not that simple to do , partly because of the lack of time . there be no lead - up to the decision ; there be literally two week ' notice . to switch to catch other specie , fisherman need different equipment , and for much of it , there be a lead time of several month before it can be deliver . as my hon . Friend say , switch to a different specie simply displace the catch of other vessel . the vessel that work hard target that other specie will then have to reduce their catch , and perhaps look for something else , which will also have a knock - on effect . while I appreciate the sentiment that these fisherman need to catch something else , it really be not that simple . certainly , it be unrealistic to expect that to happen when they have have such a short timeframe in which to adjust . there be real concern and question about the datum on which the decision be make . it be accept that pollack stock be diminish , and quota be be reduce for some time , but what shock the industry be the decision to go suddenly from 1 , 500 tonne to zero at once , when previously quota have drop by a few hundred tonne a year . as we understand it , the data have largely be gather from the catch of trawler , but it be well understand that the main place where pollack can be find and catch be on reef and wreck , where trawler can not fish . there be real question about the accuracy of the datum that have be use to make the recommendation , and whether it be base on the reality of the stock of pollack that be available . the fisherman I have speak to be incredibly frustrated — some be even angry — because for several year they have be say to the Marine Management Organisation , " we be concerned about pollack stock , and therefore we would like an increase in the minimum catch size , an increase in the mesh size for the net or a closed season for one or two month a year to protect the stock so we don ' t have to take this drastic action " — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) when those fisherman put that to the MMO , it say , " oh , there ' s no need for that . we be not concerned . we don ' t think those measure be necessary . " but it look like the fisherman be right all along , because if these measure have be bring in gradually over the past few year , we may have have sustainable quota for pollack without this sudden drop to zero . I know the Minister have be look at way to support those who have be affect severely by this decision . I welcome the step he have take , the work he have be do and the measure he have bring forward through the fishery and seafood scheme to expedite application from those who have be affect by the reduction in pollack stock to help they diversify . that be very welcome , but will he clarify the letter send out on 23 February , which say the scheme will be available to all those affect by the reduction in pollack quota , include netter ? the press release that go out later that day seem to suggest it be only available to handliner and boat under 10 metre . if the Minister could clarify exactly who the expedite FaSS be available to , that would be welcome . I can do that while my hon . friend be on his foot . I be try to establish a priority list , so boat under 10 metre and handliner will be prioritise over boat over 10 meter and those that be net . that do not mean those boat be exclude ; it just mean that we will prioritise the other . I be very grateful to the Minister . it be very helpful to have that clarification . the Centre for Environment , Fisheries and Aquaculture Science — I will call it cefa , which be a lot easy to say — be work with fisherman to gather accurate datum about the current stock of pollack , which will hopefully inform future decision . pay fisherman who have lose their catch due to this decision to gather datum be very welcome , but we should acknowledge that the scheme will assist only a relatively small number of vessel . both scheme be welcome , but they do not go far enough and will not help anywhere near the number of boat that have be affect or mitigate the loss that be be experience . we need to focus on two thing . first , we must help and support now those who have be so badly affect by this decision , and protect their livelihood in the immediate future from the loss of income that they experience virtually overnight with no time to prepare . secondly , we should lay out a pathway to return pollack quota sustainably as quickly as possible . I urge the Minister to prioritise work with the specialised committee on fishery , where I understand that the UK and the EU will be discuss pollack as a priority topic later this month . this be the first chance to review the datum and make request of ICES for refinement of the science and management , particularly of recreational fisher . as the Minister know , that be a real concern of many commercial fisherman : there seem to be no restriction or regulation around recreational fisher when it come to pollack . those fisherman want to see the UK engage robustly and confidently as the independent seafaring nation that we be , and to make the most of that opportunity . I also understand that the cornish Fish Producers ' Organisation have a meeting with DEFRA and cefa later this month , ahead of the SCF meeting . I hope the Minister and his official will take that opportunity to really listen to the concern of our fishing representative and understand the impact that this decision be have , and to work with they to find a way forward . what we need be urgent help now . fisherman have lose a major part of their income overnight through no fault of their own . they have ongoing business cost , mortgage to pay and family to support , and it be unrealistic to expect they to adjust at such short notice — they really need some help now . I urge the Minister to continue to do all he can to find a way of get help to those fisherman as soon as we can , and to work with fisherman in Cornwall and elsewhere towards see a pollack quota return as soon as possible , so we can have sustainable fishery for pollack go forward . I thank the Minister again for all he have be do . I look forward to his response to this debate , and I will continue to work with he and colleague to find solution to these challenge , to help the fisherman I represent and to ensure they have a viable future . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) , not only for tonight ' s debate but for the work he continue to do to support his constituent . I also put on record my recognition of the effort of my hon . friend the Members for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) and for South East Cornwall ( Mrs Murray ) , who have be equally tenacious in their pursuit of support for their constituent . to begin with the scientific advice , back in June 2023 , the International Council for the Exploration of the Seas provide advice that the total allowable catch for pollack in western water for 2024 should be set at zero tonne for the first time . this follow a benchmark for pollack — a process whereby assessment method for a stock be review and well available method be select . that benchmark lead to a change in the assessment from a data - limit method , which be mostly reliant on landing datum only , to a category 2 assessment that include fishery survey datum . the recent benchmark suggest that the stock go below safe biological limit in 2015 - 16 . the ICES advice receive in June 2023 be the well available scientific advice , and be the basis on which DEFRA negotiate a EU - UK bycatch TAC of 832 tonne . that bycatch TAC aim to avoid choke other healthy fishery in the south - west , where pollack be catch ; however , it do not allow vessel to target pollack . I recognise the difficulty that that be cause , particularly for those who predominantly target pollack and have do for some time . in addition to secure the bycatch of pollack , my Department have be work hard to find way to assist and support those most affected , while of course keep the long - term sustainability of the fishery in mind . with that in mind , on 23 February , we announce the reopening of the fishery and seafood scheme , which be provide up to £ 6 million in funding to support project in a variety of area , include health and safety , processing and — importantly — business diversification . we be also expedite fass application for hand and pole line fisher on under 10 metre vessel , bring the application processing time down from eight week to four week . that will mean that we will be able to get support to the most affected the quick . in addition , on 23 February I announce that affected fisherman will have the opportunity to take part in a new scientific study lead by the Centre for Environment , Fisheries and Aquaculture Science . this study will see a collaboration between scientist and fisherman to increase our understanding of the stock structure of pollack . fisher will be engage in the project to collect generic sample from around 3 , 000 pollack , receive payment for initial training and participation . they will still be able to sell at market the pollack they have catch as part of that study . application , along with detailed eligibility criterion , will be open as soon as possible , encourage the most affected pollack fisher to apply for that study . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement on 23 February , but do he see the comment make by Andy Read in Fishing News , where he ask a very salient question : could this not all have be predict and could it not have be do early ? we do of course continue to monitor fish stock , and we do follow ICES advice . it be a fair criticism that we have see a decline in pollack over many year — over the last 20 year — but certainly the ICES advice continue to recognise that pollack could be catch until last June , when we be force into the position where we have to take action . I be truly sorry for the impact that be have on the fisherman who have rely on that stock . we want to follow that advice to the good of our ability to try to recover that stock . I want fisherman to be able to catch pollack in those water , so we do need to manage it in the most responsible way possible . I genuinely thank the Minister for his continued engagement on this , which really be very much appreciated . he may like to know that , follow his announcement a couple of week ago on the scheme he be present , I write to the Chancellor to ask he for a bit more in the budget — not in the Budget we have just have , but in the budget — to help the Minister with a scheme he might have . we really do need some financial support for these guy now . it really be critical . once again , I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her tenacious pursuit of support for her constituent . I will turn to the long - term outlook for pollack , which be important . we will work with the EU on the long - term management of pollack , via the specialised committee on fishery , to drive towards an improved stock assessment on which ICES can base future advice . I want to see a recovery of this important pollack fishery , and I believe the measure describe will help support that sector through a very challenging time . my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay mention recreational fishing , which I know have cause some frustration , with social medium post almost taunt the commercial fisherman . there be an active recreational pollack fishery , and although the evidence base be limited , the recreational catch be likely to represent a large component of the total pollack catch . clearly , give the zero catch advice , there be a need to explore the potential to reduce pressure on the stock through management of the recreational fishery . as this be a jointly manage stock with the EU , the UK have commit to take forward work on this issue with the specialised committee on fishery as a matter of urgency in 2024 . we will work closely with relevant stakeholder throughout this process . my official have start discussion with the recreational sector , and we be look to take this work forward as soon as we can . in closing , I again thank my hon . friend for raise this important topic . Pollack be a key stock , and it be crucial to the south - west community . the Government will do all we can to support the industry , to improve the stock science and to drive the stock towards long - term sustainable management , which be of course in the interest of everyone , particularly the committed fisher of the south - west of England . I should make it clear to my hon . friend that this be not the end of the discussion I seek to have with colleague . my door be very much open to further discussion to see how we may be able to assist , and I look forward to work with he to support his constituent , as he seek to do . question put and agree to . House adjourn .