business before Questions Sessional Returns order , that there be lay before the House Returns for session 2022 - 23 of information and statistic relate to : ( 1 ) business of the House ( 2 ) closure of Debate , Proposal of Question , Allocation of Time and Programming of Bills ( 3 ) sitting of the House ( 4 ) private Bills and private Business ( 5 ) Public Bills ( 6 ) delegate Legislation and Legislative Reform Orders ( 7 ) European Legislation , etc ( 8 ) Grand Committees and the Regional Affairs Committee ( 9 ) Panel of Chairs ( 10 ) Select Committees . — ( the second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means . ) Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Artificial Intelligence : creative sector what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of AI on the creative sector . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of AI on under - represent group in the creative industry . I will endeavour to be succinct . AI offer huge benefit and opportunity to the creative sector , but it also bring challenge . the Government have engage extensively with the creative industry and other about it and will continue to do so . I thank the Minister for his succinct response , but , as he know , the Select Committee have call for the Government to abandon the propose copyright exemption for text and data mining , which the chief executive officer of UK Music succinctly describe as a " green light to music laundering " . can the Minister confirm that the Government will not undermine artist and musician by exempt AI datum mining from copyright restriction ? as the hon . Gentleman be probably aware , there be ongoing discussion between creative right owner and the platform and other through the Intellectual Property Office , but it have make clear that , unless permit under licence or on exception , make copy under text and datum mining will constitute copyright infringement . do the Minister agree that the nature of AI system be such that , when they be train on creative work , both conscious and unconscious bias in music , film and art against certain group in our society will be reinforce in generative output ? the Government be seek a code of conduct on copyright and AI ; will they use this opportunity to address that issue and ensure that AI company take responsibility for protect against that type of harm ? be he consider an AI Bill , even though it be not announce in the King ' s Speech ? there be a great deal of work go on around AI to develop a framework of regulation , as be originally set out in the White Paper . the hon . Gentleman ' s point about algorithmic bias be a serious one ; it be be study by the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation , and obviously we will look very carefully at that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . People work in the creative industry have be completely let down by the Tories , include on real concern about the impact of AI . the Government have not respond to the consultation on their own AI White Paper or the report on AI and the creative industry . they have not get to grip with the issue at all . creative people need to know whether they will be properly reward for their incredible talent , now and in the future . when will the Government set out a proper plan to protect creator ? the hon . Lady be new to her role and so may have miss the creative sector vision , which be publish about six month ago and set out an investment total some £ 50 billion go into the creative industry over the next five year . a great deal of work be take place on the impact of AI on creative industry , and we be hope to say more about that before the end of the year . that be just not good enough . thank to the resilience and hard work of those in the creative industry , they be grow fast than many other , but it be people who make the good joy and the good culture , not AI . we be all well off when we draw on everyone ' s talent . that be how we grow the creative industry — with people from more diverse background in more job . tackle AI be a fundamental part of that . to pick an example for the Minister , talent in the north represent just 15 % of employment in the creative industry under the Tories , so what be the Government do to protect and increase that in the age of AI ? with the Secretary of State , I be able to spend Monday in Manchester for the creative industry conference , where we meet representative from right across the sector , include those from the AI sector . AI be already benefit the creative industry to a considerable amount and represent real opportunity for they . horserace what step her Department be take to support the horserace sector . horseracing be an integral part of british sporting culture , and we recognise the significant contribution the sport make to the economy . we have commence the review of the horserace bet levy , to commit to a sustainable future for racing , and the British Horseracing Authority ' s 2024 fixture list for racing show an estimate £ 90 million improvement to british race ' s finance until 2028 . my right hon . friend will be aware that many racegoer and people who work in a variety of job across the sector be concerned that increase affordability check could have a detrimental impact on british horseracing . what assurance can he provide that affordability check will not be intrusive and that million of hard - work Brits will still be free to safely enjoy the great british tradition of a day at the race ? I know that my hon . friend have a keen interest in this area . we absolutely recognise the relationship between bet and racing , and have no intention of over - regulating . in fact , it be the current system that be inconsistent , and we want to bring some uniformity to it . we have have several meeting with racing stakeholder , the gambling industry and the Gambling Commission this week . we have be very clear that we will not mandate check until we be confident that they be frictionless and that the majority of those who enjoy gambling safely can continue to do so , while protect those who may enter gambling harm . a safe bet — Jim Shannon . I thank the Minister for his response . the terrible weather condition in the last three or four week have have an impact on the horse - race sector . the race at Down Royal , on the edge of my constituency , be cancel because the flooding be of biblical proportion . horseracing be very important to my constituent , and many people be involve in it . that have an impact on their ability to attend . have the Minister have discussion with other Departments to ensure that any help that can be give to the horserace sector for those race that be lose be give ? first , may I say what a pleasure it be to visit the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency a few week ago ? he be ask if I can do something about the weather ; I wish I could . I understand the impact it might have . I would be happy to discuss any specific issue relate to the racecourse he mention , and to see whether I can talk to colleague in other Departments about that . Tourism industry : Devon and Cornwall what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on Government support for the tourism industry in Devon and Cornwall . I be pleased to visit south Devon in August and to meet member of the Great South West tourism partnership . I be also pleased that Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly have recently be accredit as a local visitor economy partnership and that Devon be work with VisitEngland towards potential accreditation . as the Minister know , the tourism sector in our region be iconic , but any rise in business rate bill that local hospitality business be require to pay could see many struggle . while it be for the Chancellor to set out tax change , can he outline what representation he be make to the Chancellor to freeze the business rate multiplier and extend the 75 % relief for hospitality for a further year ? I discuss a range of issue affect tourism in Devon with the Great South West tourism partnership . we cover a lot of ground , and I know that those issue be of great importance to the tourism sector . of course , we be in regular dialogue with the Treasury , but it be a matter for the Chancellor , as my hon . Friend say . journalist in conflict Zones whether she have have recent discussion with the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs on support for journalist work in conflict zone . journalist in conflict zone be put their life on the line to enable we to benefit from their accurate reporting . my thought be with all of they , and with the family and friend of those who have unfortunately lose their life . I have raise support for journalist in conflict zone with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for that answer and for her understanding of the issue . as so many news outlet be cut budget , the reliance on freelancer report from conflict zone grow . such reporter do not have a big corporate behind they to pay for their training , their personal protective equipment and then their support and counselling when they come back . a lot of good work be do here by the Rory Peck Trust , but it be desperately short of resource . will she speak to her colleague in Government to see what more can be do to support freelancer through well funding for the Rory Peck Trust ? I be happy to speak to my colleague in Government to understand how we can far support journalist . we have lead a great deal of action recently and over a number of year to support journalist both here and abroad , and we have set up a number of fund and taskforce to support they . Independent Football Regulator when she plan to appoint an independent football regulator . what her plan timetable be for establish an independent regulator for english football . the Government remain committed to put fan at the heart of football and to ensure that the game have a sustainable financial future . the football governance Bill be include in the King ' s Speech , and we intend to work closely with the Football Association , the league and fan association to build the good independent regulator possible . I thank the Secretary of State for that response . my understanding be that while negotiation be take place between the Premier League and the English Football League , there have not yet be agreement on redistribution of money . be there anything she can do to bring the two side together so that progress can be make on that very important issue ? I understand my hon . friend ' s concern . it be really important that football come to a deal in relation to distribution . I support he in encourage the football association to do so , and I continue to urge they to reach an agreement in that area . although our preference be a football - lead solution , give the importance of distribution to financial sustainability , the independent football regulator will have target statutory power to intervene on financial distribution as a last resort , if necessary . if football fail to deliver a solution , the regulator will deliver one . like many people across the House , I love football — I always have do . it be more than just a game ; it be the social fabric that run through community , and it can make our weekend or break they — but enough about United ' s current form . the England manager , Gareth Southgate , have warn that the regulator be " another var wait to happen " , with the Government possibly look to solve complicated question with simple answer . will the Secretary of State explain how we will get this right , and will she ensure that the regulator be implement swiftly , so that more club do not go the way of Bury in the meantime ? I understand the hon . member ' s concern : Bury have suffer in the past , as have many other club across the country . that be why we be bring in a regulator . I have have a number of conversation with the league , my parliamentary colleague and fan to make sure that we get the regulation right . we commit in our manifesto to bring forward a fan - lead review White Paper . we have do so , and we be at a very advanced stage , have announce the football governance Bill in the King ' s Speech . I note that Labour do nothing in its 13 year in office . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the inclusion of football governance in the King ' s Speech be very welcome . will my right hon . and learn Friend confirm what discussion she have have with the fa on whether the independent regulator will include woman ' s football , and when the Government intend to publish their response to the Carney review ? I have regular discussion with the fa — indeed , I meet its chair yesterday . at the moment , the regulator will cover the man ' s game , but I also meet Karen Carney a week or so ago . her review be extremely important to woman ' s football and woman ' s sport , and I very much look forward to publish our response to that report , which we will do very shortly . there be concern that the Premier League make very late representation and try to water down the power of the regulator . will the Secretary of State say what the Government ' s response to that intervention by the Premier League be ? we want to ensure that we get the regulator right . it be essential that we protect fan and bring forward the legislation that the Labour party fail to bring forward . the legislation will strike absolutely the right balance between protect fan and ensure that our premier league and our football remain a competitive , world - class sport across the globe . we now come to the shadow Minister . football club be more than business ; they be at the heart of community up and down the country , but too many club be be push to the brink , leave fan from Scunthorpe to read worry that their club might be damage beyond repair by the time a regulator be bring in . will the Secretary of State update we on what immediate action and interim measure the Department be take to ensure that an independent regulator for football be ready to go as soon as new legislation be pass ? we be take absolutely those measure : we be put in place a shadow regulator , and we have advertise for the appointment of the regulator ' s chief operating officer . we want to ensure that as soon as the legislation be on the book , everything be ready so that it can come into force as soon as possible . I notice that the Football Task Force be set up in 1997 by the incoming Labour Government to look at systemic issue in football and make recommendation to Ministers on how to address they . however , despite a number of report identify significant failing in the sport , a member of that taskforce ' s working group report that the Labour Government make it clear that they could not , and would not , deliver a statutory regulator . this government be bring that regulator in . Commercial Radio and Television what step her Department be take to support commercial radio and television in the context of the development of new transmission platform . I note that my hon . friend have in the past be a big star on the airwave himself . last week , the Government introduce the Media Bill into Parliament . the Bill will ensure that our world - lead tv and radio sector be able to compete in the new digital world , so that they can continue to produce great content for the audience of the future . if I be to say , " hey , Siri , can I have GB News radio ? " or " Alexa , play GB News radio " — [ interruption . ] of course I would say GB News radio . it be the most successful news channel now , pull in a big audience at most time of the day than either the BBC News channel or Sky — TalkTV can not even be measure . anyway , I be go off the subject . order . I be try to help you , because if you do not get to the question , you will not be ask it . come on ! my question be : what provision be in place , if any , to ensure that if I do say those thing , I get GB News radio , not another channel , and I be not charge for it ? he ' ll be ask for Radio Caroline next . [ laughter . ] the measure in the Media Bill will protect the position of radio in relation to voice - activate smart speaker , ensure that listener can find their favourite radio station on request . in particular , when a listener request a specific station , they should receive that station . music Education what step she be take with the Secretary of State for Education to increase the uptake of music among child . in June 2022 , we publish the new national plan for music education , which aim to level up music opportunity for all child and young people regardless of circumstance , need or geography . since publication , we have work with the Department for Education to progress delivery of the music hub investment programme and the music progression fund . I recently welcome Bath young carer from the Bath Philharmonia to perform music in Parliament , and it be a wonderful evening . sadly , too few young people have the opportunity to learn an instrument , or to perform or enjoy music , and the number of GCSE music entrant have fall by 12 . 5 % . the Minister mention the new national plan for music education . will he update we on how many school have implement that plan , and will we get regular update about any increase in the number of GCSE music entrant ? I be sorry that I be unable to hear the visit group from the hon . Lady ' s constituency , but I be delighted that it come . as I have say , we be invest £ 25 million in the provision of musical instrument through music hub . I can tell she that the proportion of pupil study for a music qualification at key stage 4 over the past year have remain stable at about 7 % to 8 % . I call the shadow Minister . I have to say that the bath young carer play wonderfully , and I really enjoy listen to they . Ofsted recently state that there remain a " divide between child and young people whose family can afford to pay for music tuition and those who come from low socio - economic background . " I share the concern just express about the impact this be have . the money promise for musical instrument in June 2022 , which the Minister have just mention , have still not be distribute to school , and it now sound as though that money be not go to arrive until autumn 2024 . will that delay not just mean that more child be not able to learn to play an instrument ? what action can the Minister take to speed it up ? I can tell the hon . Lady that the Government remain committed to investment through the music hub investment programme , and I be happy to give she a specific answer to the question she raise about the allocation of that money in writing . the Government be work very closely with the DFE on this , and we also look forward to produce a cultural education plan in early 2024 . UEFA Euro 2028 what step she be take to help support preparation for UEFA Euro 2028 . what step she be take to help support preparation for UEFA Euro 2028 . the Government be delighted that the UK and Ireland have secure the right to host Euro 2028 . this will be the big joint event our island have ever host , build on our world - lead track record of deliver major sporting event and leave a lasting legacy for community right across the United Kingdom . I be delighted to have to declare an interest , because my cousin , Ray Reidy , have just be appoint interim chief financial officer at Aston Villa . as an Aston Villa fan myself , I know how difficult it be to get away from a game use Witton train station . will the Minister join I , Andy Street and the combine authority , in work to develop the capacity of Witton train station in advance of that stadium be use for the Euros in 2028 ? the Minister might want to pass that question on to a Transport Minister ! we in DCMS be always happy to try to deliver what our colleague want , and I be delighted that Villa Park be a great venue and have exciting plan . Birmingham and the west midland region have benefit from significant investment as part of the Commonwealth game , but my hon . friend be right to say that we will be work with partner right across Government , and in other organisation , to ensure that Euro 2028 be one of the most exciting event we have see in this country . I be not sure whether my right hon . friend have be to Villa Park , but some of we may differ on its condition . we will leave it to Gareth Southgate to prepare the team to go one step far and win the championship when it come around , but will my right hon . friend ensure that the security and travel arrangement , and most importantly the ticket arrangement , maximise the capability of people to enjoy our beautiful game ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that issue . in my role I get the great opportunity to go to many exciting event — which be your favourite ? well , eurovision of course . I always make sure that I take the opportunity to meet fan and see the experience that they be have at these event , so that we learn from they and ensure that we be address any issue that come up . that be why we will be work with all operational partner to ensure that every match be a good one for people to enjoy . St James ' Park in the heart of Newcastle will be welcome european football fan as part of Euro 2028 , and we be very proud of that . follow the 2012 Olympics , sport participation do not increase . will the Minister set out what the Government will do to ensure that the legacy of Euro 2028 be increase participation across Newcastle ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . legacy be incredibly important to I . that be why we have be give hundred of million of pound to improve on and build new grassroots sport facility , so that there be plenty of opportunity for people to enjoy the thing they want to do that be inspire by tournament just like Euro 2028 . this should be an opportunity for fan to celebrate and enjoy . I remember the 1996 Euros , when the danish fan come to Sheffield and drink the city dry , without any problem or disorder whatsoever . will the Minister give two commitment ? first , will he engage with the Football Supporters ' Association in full planning for this ? it need to be involve because it have really good idea and experience . secondly , will he talk to the authority about ticket pricing , so that those on low income , and particularly child , can get to the game and enjoy the event ? I absolutely commit to engage with the Football Supporters ' Association . I also meet fan ahead of the european championship final in Istanbul this year . the hon . Gentleman be right , and there be lot of issue for we to discuss . we be in constant discussion with the like of UEFA , for example , to which I will happily make those representation . EU exit : Creative Industries in Scotland whether she have have recent discussion with representative of the creative industry in Scotland on the impact of the UK ' s exit from the EU on those industry . I and my official regularly meet representative of the creative industry in Scotland , and we be pleased to be join by representative from Creative Scotland , the Scottish Government and the Creative Industries Council early this week . we will continue to work closely with colleague in Scotland to ensure that the UK ' s creative industry remain world lead follow the UK ' s exit from the European Union . notwithstanding the Minister ' s answer , polling by the Independent Society of Musicians have show that almost half of musician in the music industry have have less work in the EU post Brexit , and 40 % have have to cancel work in the EU due to the increase cost of travel and work in the EU . how can the Minister continue to pretend that Brexit have not harm musician , when the cost be so enormous and have be explain to this Government many , many time ? we be continue to work to make it easy for musician from this country to tour in Europe , and we have manage to establish arrangement with 24 out of 27 member state that now allow visa and work permit - free route for UK performer for short - term touring . we continue to engage in discussion with country individually to make further improvement . I call the SNP spokesperson . the post - Brexit tightening of immigration rule and the Brexit - cause cost of living crisis be have a disproportionate impact on the creative sector , as the UK Government continue to squeeze public service . in advance of the autumn statement next week , what representation be the Secretary of State and the Department make to the Chancellor to ensure that the creative sector be adequately fund and protect , so that Scotland can receive the Barnett consequential from that in order to continue to support our wonderful and , as the Minister say , world - lead creative industry ? the Chancellor have be very generous to the creative industry and I hope that he will continue to be so . however , I would point out to the hon . Lady that Creative Scotland benefit from a grant in aid budget of around £ 63 million , and I would have think that she might welcome the fact that in the last March Budget the UK Government announce £ 8 . 6 million in support for two of Edinburgh ' s world - lead festival . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . may I first welcome the new Secretary of State to her place — [ interruption . ] I mean the shadow Secretary of State . I also welcome all the new Ministers : it be a pleasure to work with they and I look forward to do so over the come month . since we last meet for question , my Department have be busy deliver on the priority of the Government . on Monday , the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) and I meet more than 150 business in Manchester to ensure that we build the creative industry not just in London but across the north . we make an announcement to drive growth in our creative industry with more than £ 10 million to scale up hundred of creative industry business . we be protect and uphold media freedom , with an update national action plan for the safety of journalist , and a new taskforce to tackle the misuse of strategic lawsuit against public participation by individual who want to muzzle the press . as well as that , we be create opportunity across the UK — Order . I be sorry , but we have only eight minute for topical and I really be struggle to get everyone in . I call Gavin Newlands . tonight , Scotland will play what amount to a dead rubber because we have qualify for the Euros with two game to spare . it be an unusual feeling for we and we do not know quite what to do . generation of young scottish football fan , unlike their English and Welsh counterpart , be unable to see their national football team on free - to - air television . Scotland be one of only seven out of 55 UEFA country where the national team be hide behind a paywall . in these time when family be really struggle , do the Secretary of State think that be fair in principle ? I do not catch all of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , but I think he ask about broadcast right and scottish team . he need to understand , because he raise this question from time to time , that there be a balance between audience number and commercial revenue for sport . as he know , sport be devolve to the Scottish Government — I call Dr Cameron . follow the successful artificial intelligence summit , can my right hon . friend update we on his conversation with the medium industry to make sure that safeguard be in place while we also reap important job for the future ? rapid development of AI pose major question for many industry , include our vital press sector . we be host roundtable with broadcaster and news publisher to discuss the risk and opportunity of AI to journalism , and we intend to continue the conversation with the sector over the come month . UK - inbound tourism have lose the equivalent of 15 , 000 job follow the 83 % fall in EU student group visit our country because of post - Brexit passport and visa requirement . I be hearten to read in the about the propose deal that the Prime Minister want to strike with France follow his summit with President Macron . be any other deal like that in the pipeline ? that be an excellent deal . of course , we would like to replicate it if that be possible . Swim Torquay provide a vital community facility in Plainmoor , yet it miss out on funding from the Government ' s swimming pool support fund . will the Minister agree to a meeting to discuss how it can still be support to meet the essential cost that it face ? it be precisely because we recognise how important swimming pool be that we have this fund . we have allocate £ 140 , 000 to the Riviera International Centre in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I know that the local council be seek fund from phase 2 . I will happily arrange a meeting with colleague and Sport England . a ymca report last year find that £ 1 . 1 billion have be cut from youth service since 2010 - 11 — a real - term cut of 74 % . while the Government ' s national youth guarantee do provide a funding injection for youth service , it be nowhere near enough to reverse those cut , and the funding be predominantly for capital investment . will the Secretary of State commit to provide youth service with the sustainable revenue funding that they desperately need ? I invite the hon . member to read a speech I give on youth , which be a massive priority of mine . we be fund significantly through DCMS and through the National Citizen Service as well as through a number of Departments . there be Home Office fund , justice fund , and fund through the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . for I , as a massive Bath rugby fan , it be difficult to represent a seat in Leicestershire , what with the Tigers be there . with that say , the nice thing that bring all rugby fan together be the ability to watch the game . there be concern , though , about the governance of premiership rugby and how it be run . could the Minister update we on where we be up to on that ? I know that he have take a special interest in try to get that organised . I know that my hon . friend have take a keen interest in this , and he be absolutely right that we need to see improved governance . that be why we appoint two special adviser , who have be work with both the premier league and the Rugby Football Union to come up with solution . we be have meeting with they constantly and will ensure that they progress . citizen across the EU now benefit from increase transparency in how big tech company target they with advert and propaganda thank to the Digital Services Act . of course , we have miss out because of Brexit . what will the Government do to provide increase transparency and tackle bad - faith actor use big tech to target our citizen ? the online advertising taskforce have come forward with a number of measure , and we be look both to legislate in this area in due course and to introduce non - statutory measure . we be committed to protect vulnerable people from inappropriate advertising , and to tackle fraudulent advertising . the inclusion of five additional sport in the Los Angeles Olympics programme could provide extra medal prospect for Team GB , especially as our woman be current european flag champion , the England , Scotland and Wales woman ' s lacrosse team be in the top 10 , and we have two man and one woman in the top 10 for squash . however , to ensure success , fund for the 2028 Olympics need to be secure before Paris next year , so what discussion be the Minister have with the new lottery provider and the Treasury to ensure that UK sport be adequately fund for those sport and other for la28 ? I be interested to discover this morning that my hon . friend have a horse name after she , call Commander Crouch — if anyone want a good investment , there you go . the UK sport investment process for Los Angeles be under way . I welcome the fact that there be these new sport , include flag football ; I know that my hon . friend be a big fan of american football . UK Sport will consider the funding for all those new sport , and I will soon have a meeting with its representative to get an update . local newspaper be under threat . when the community news project be introduce in 2018 for newspaper such as the Cambridge News , it be widely welcome . the project be support by tech giant Meta , but it have now withdraw funding . will the Minister join I and other in call for it to rethink its decision ? I meet representative of Meta early in the week , and I do make clear to they the Government ' s disappointment at the withdrawal of the community news project . we be look to ensure that newspaper be properly compensate by the tech giant , and measure to ensure that be contain in the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . after the tremendous success of the Commonwealth game in Birmingham in 2021 , I be delighted to hear last week that our fantastic mayor Andy Street have secure a £ 9 million legacy fund from the Commonwealth game for community to participate in grassroots project . do my right hon . friend agree that this be a fantastic opportunity for organisation in constituency such as mine and across the west midland bid for the fund in order to promote physical and mental activity in local community ? my right hon . friend be right . it be wonderful to see the legacy from the Commonwealth game . I join she in tell people to reach out and apply . that will be couple with the significant investment that we be put into grassroots sport so that community can come together and enjoy the sport they like , and improve their physical and mental wellbeing . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Party Spending Limits what recent discussion the Committee have have with the Electoral Commission on party spending limit for election . the Committee have not have recent discussion with the Commission on the matter raise . the Electoral Commission support political party to comply with their legal obligation to adhere to spending limit during an election campaign , and publish their spending . that provide voter with transparency over the money spend by political party during election and assurance that there be a level playing field for all political party . public confidence in the integrity of our democracy be only harm by the idea that somehow it can be buy by the people with the deep pocket . can the hon . member assure I that the Electoral Commission understand that in set those limit , it be a question not simply of finance and arithmetic but of the integrity of the system and that level playing field ? the UK Government ' s proposal to increase the spending limit and donation reporting threshold represent a significant change to the UK ' s political finance control . the Commission ' s research show a long - term decline in public confidence in the political finance system . any change to spending or reporting threshold must be support by rigorous analysis , include on the likely impact on public confidence and transparency . the Commission have not see any evidence to support these change . it be concern that the proposal risk damage the transparency of political donation and give significantly more scope for high - spend party to campaign . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners be ask — Engagement with Children and Young People what recent progress the Church of England have make on increase engagement with child and young people . my hon . friend be right to focus on the importance of this issue . the Church of England be work hard to create a church that be young and more diverse , double the number of child and young active disciple by 2030 . More than £ 60 million have be award to five diocese to achieve that . recently , I have the opportunity to be at the patronal service where 12 young people from St Mary ' s church in Kenton and St Lawrence ' s church in Stanmore be confirm in the Church of England . that demonstrate that young people be attract to the church , but what more can my hon . friend — and the Church — do to attract young people to come into the church and fulfil their destiny ? I be delighted to learn about the good work at St Mary ' s Kenton and St Lawrence ' s Stanmore , where 12 young people be recently confirm . the good news be that the £ 60 million be be well spend , and be produce promising result across the Church of England . we need to see a lot more of it . whenever I be a child in the ' 60 — it wasn ' t yesterday — every child in Ballywalter attend Sunday school meeting . today , it be a different generation . National Sunday attendance figure for under - 16s have drop below 100 , 000 for the first time . I understand that the Church be reach out to young people , but perhaps we need to reach out a wee bit differently . what plan be there to do that ? as always , the hon . Gentleman be on the money . I can tell he that the Church ' s strategic mission and ministry investment board be do exactly that : invest in a range of different organisation that be connect really well with young people , often through community project . large number of they be come to church and stay there , which be brilliant . Lichfield Cathedral Summer School if the Church Commissioners will take step to share good practice from the work of the Lichfield cathedral summer school . I thank my hon . friend and the cathedral chapter at Lichfield for their warm welcome on my recent visit , which I greatly enjoy . the Lichfield cathedral summer school be indeed an inspiration to the wide Church in support child , many of whom be on free school meal , to socialise and learn before the new school year begin . it have expand with county council support and the Government ' s holiday activity and food programme , and it would like to operate throughout the school holiday . I warmly commend it . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . it be the 20th anniversary of MusicShare , which start in Lichfield . over 150 school be engage each year . I go to the anniversary concert in Lichfield cathedral last Saturday and see " Noye ' s Fludde " , which be write by Benjamin Britten . it be a spectacular occasion , with all the schoolchildren take part . what more could Lichfield do to advise other cathedral on how it ought to be do ? as so often , where Lichfield lead other follow . my hon . friend be right that the choral tradition in our cathedral be one of the glory of our country . Lichfield ' s MusicShare programme have , I understand , reach 25 , 000 child , with participant of all age , include people up to their 90 . that is , no doubt , why it have win a national award from the Times Educational Supplement . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Online Political Advertising : regulation what recent discussion the Committee have have with the Electoral Commission on the regulation of online political advertising before an election . the Committee have not have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the matter raise . the Elections Act 2022 introduce a requirement for most online political campaign material to carry a digital imprint . the Commission have say that digital imprint will improve trust and confidence in digital campaign at future election and referendum in the UK . it have publish statutory guidance to help party and campaigner understand and comply with this new requirement . targeted online advertising can sometimes contain very misleading claim about member and other politician . member might not even be aware that an advert have be send out . will the Commission look at some sort of process whereby there be a way for all advert to be register , so that people can check their transparency and veracity ? the Commission have previously recommend that social medium library should be a legal requirement . that would provide voter with more information about who be be target online , but it would be for the Government to come forward with the legislation . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners be ask — same - sex relationship what recent progress have be make on implement the decision take by the General Synod in February 2023 on blessing same - sex relationship and relate to clergy in same - sex relationship . this week the General Synod agree that the prayer of love and faith , and the pastoral guidance for their use , will be commend for use from mid - December , and also that special service of prayer and dedication use the prayer of love and faith can be authorise for a trial period before full synodical authorisation . I be sure the vast majority of Members on both side of the House will warmly welcome the outcome of Synod yesterday , and I thank the hon . member for the role he play in convey Parliament ' s view to Synod . it be very clear during the debate that there be a small number who will never , ever accept LGBT people as equal in their church . as he know , some parish have stop pay their diocesan share — effectively go on strike . why should they continue to enjoy the benefit and privilege of be Church of England parish ? the payment by parish to diocese , often know as common fund or parish share , be voluntary payment towards the cost of ministry in those parish and in the wide Church . it be a matter for diocese how they work with their parish to encourage they to contribute , but I would certainly very strongly encourage every church to make a fair contribution to the cost of their ministry and , where they can , to help other in poor area . I call the Father of the House . I reinforce what the right hon . member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) say about the general welcome in the House for the movement towards equality and fairness . we have have it on ordination ; we now have it on same - sex relationship up to a point . through my hon . friend , I ask those who be disappoint with this movement forward to think of the pain that they have cause by resist the change for so many people , whether by sex or orientation , over the past decade . I be grateful , as always , to the Father of the House for his wise reflection on these matter . he be right that this have be a difficult and painful period across the Church . I very much regret that , as he do . I hope we can move forward together in love , truth and unity on these matter . Manipur : attack on Churches and Christian Communities whether the Church of England have take step to raise awareness of recent attack on church and christian community in Manipur . I be extremely grateful to the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief for again bring the situation in Manipur to the House ' s attention . Archbishop Justin have speak about it publicly , other bishop have contact the indian high commissioner , and I will shortly be visit the high commissioner myself to talk about issue in Manipur with another hon . member , both of we be great friend of India . there have be month of violence in Manipur , and that violence continue , with Christians of different ethnicity target — such as the mother cry after four family member be torture , kill , mutilate and cut to piece on 7 November . hundred of church and home have be burn , woman have be sexually abuse and organise mobs attack with impunity , allegedly use loot government weapon . international news medium from abroad find access hard . will the Church continue to do all that it can to draw the world ' s attention to this situation so that those responsible can be bring to account , the violence do not spread far , and practical help can be provide in the form of security , rehabilitation , reconstruction , and compensation for those who have suffer so much ? reflect on those awful remark , I would suggest that it be pretty shocking to realise what our news medium do not tell we much of the time . however , I can tell my hon . friend that the Church of England be in regular contact with the Church of North India to offer all the support we can , and that we be support Anglicans here in the UK who have connection with Manipur . those who suffer in Manipur be not alone , and we will continue to walk alongside they . Antisocial Behaviour and Drug - relate crime whether the Church of England be take step to support parish experience antisocial behaviour and drug - relate crime in and around church building . the Church of England be proud to have a presence in every part of the country , but sadly that mean that our church and clergy be sometimes target in unpleasant way . work with the police and local authority , the Church recognise that it have a duty of care to all its staff , and it will always do everything it can to protect and assist they . it be right that parish church offer a beacon of hope and light to those go through the dark tunnel of addiction , reach out the hand of christian fellowship , but that can result in both clergy and church building be target by dark force who see that as a threat to their trade . what further step do my hon . friend believe diocese could take to ensure the personal safety of all involve ? I be extremely sorry to learn that clergy and church building be be target in this way in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I thank the leadership and all the member of Paignton parish church for the inspirational work that they be do in support those who be sleep rough , and in tackle drug and alcohol addiction . that be important and necessary work , and I commend my hon . friend for do it . I be sure that the diocese of Exeter and Devon and Cornwall police will be able to offer further help as they undertake that challenging work . Asylum Seekers and Refugees what step the Church of England be take to support asylum seeker and refugee . the Church of England be support asylum seeker and refugee across the country , and our chaplaincy in Europe be provide health kit , safe place to sleep , clothe , and message to family who have become separate . my hon . friend will know that the diocese of Gloucester have recently acquire six modular home from a local provider . follow the Gloucester housing summit that I convene not long ago , our diocese , city council and housing association be discuss how to make this model of modular housing work effectively for people in need of temporary accommodation , include those recently grant asylum . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate the diocese on its good work so far , and encourage it to make progress and put this model into practice as soon as possible , recognise that it be a new approach that could perhaps be adopt elsewhere ? I be very happy to congratulate those in the diocese of Gloucester and thank they for the pioneering work that they be do on housing , and I also thank my hon . friend for the important leadership role he play locally in respect of that extremely important issue . he be right to suggest that what Gloucester be do have a wide application for other in need of emergency housing , not just asylum seeker and refugee , vitally important though that provision be . I share his view that the need be urgent , and that we should get on with this and other similar excellent initiative as quickly as possible . Parish Ministry what step the Church of England be take to support its parish ministry . Parish ministry be at the very heart of the Church ' s mission . the Church Commissioners be distribute £ 1 . 2 billion between 2023 and 2025 to support our mission and ministry . this be a 30 % increase on the previous three - year period , and a significant share of that funding will be distribute through diocese to strengthen our parish . what can the Church hierarchy do to remove administrative burden from the clergy , so they can spend more time in their community spread the good message ever tell : the gospel of Jesus Christ ? I think we all recognise that , in any position of public responsibility , there come a need for some administrative work , but I very much agree with my hon . friend that we should be free up our clergy and parish staff as much as possible to interact with their parishioner and to spread the good news of Jesus Christ . as someone say , the gospel be good news only if it be not too late . I also note the tremendous work be do in his community by St John the Evangelist in Balby and , indeed , by many other church in his local area . last Saturday I be privileged to attend the enthronement of the new Bishop of Lincoln , at which there be a vast array of clergy in all their finery . it be a very grand occasion . Lincoln be a predominantly rural diocese and many of the clergy serve five , six or more parish . can my hon . friend reassure I that the Church will focus on provide more clergy to rural area ? I be delighted that my hon . Friend be able to attend the consecration of the new Bishop of Lincoln . consecration be , indeed , very splendid affair . my hon . friend be completely right that the beat heart of the Church of England be what go on in the parish . rural area really matter , as do every part of the country . I assure he that we will not forget rural area , and I recognise the problem of large benefice . we also have rural church in North Devon , and St Augustine ' s church in Heanton Punchardon be without a rector . will my hon . friend join I in recognise and congratulate Sharon Newcombe of Pilton on the service she have provide to that church , where she have sing in the choir for over 51 year ? I be sure the whole House will join I in thank Sharon Newcombe for her fantastic service to her local church and local community . fifty - one year ' service to her local church be extremely impressive , and we be very grateful to she . I recognise that lead laypeople keep many of our church go through these difficult time , and I thank she very much for what she do . restoration and Renewal Client Board the hon . member for Broxbourne , represent the Restoration and Renewal Client Board , be ask — woman in Construction if the Board will take step to support the development of skill and creation of opportunity for woman in construction through the restoration and renewal programme . before I answer the question , Mr Speaker , can I say how nice it be to see the former Second Clerk of the Administration Committee by your side ? our loss be your gain . we always know he would go far , and I be sure he have far to go . the R & R programme be commit to embed equality , diversity and inclusion so that people from all background work on the programme can thrive . although the main construction work be still set to be some year away , the delivery authority be establish or explore relationship with skill and training provider across the whole UK that support initiative to promote woman in the construction industry . the programme also actively support a number of awareness initiative that encourage woman into construction and engineering . it be welcome that , during the work on the Elizabeth Tower , it be a common sight to see woman in hard hat work on the scaffolding and other part of that important , high - profile work . as we move through the restoration and renewal work , it have be my observation that woman in hard hat be more likely to be see direct traffic around the estate than undertake this crucial frontline construction work . will my hon . friend meet I and Kath Moore , the excellent chief executive of Women into Construction , to make sure that woman be at the heart of the high - profile construction work be undertake on Parliament ' s restoration and renewal programme ? of course I will meet my hon . friend and Kath Moore , but before that my hon . friend and I shall sit down to work up a list of other people for Kath Moore to meet so that she can have a really constructive engagement as woman into construction ' s representative across the House . I would also like to invite she to come to the Administration Committee to talk about the work of her organisation . [ interruption . ] I be just watch the clock tick . I also want to say what an honour it be to be answer question on behalf of the Restoration and Renewal Client Board in addition to the Commission — two fabulous body lead by you , Mr Speaker . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 20 November will be : Monday 20 November — remain stage of the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . Tuesday 21 November — second reading of the Media Bill . Wednesday 22 November — my right hon . friend the Chancellor will make his autumn statement , which will be follow by a debate on the autumn statement . Thursday 23 November — continuation of a debate on the autumn statement . Friday 24 November — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 27 November will include : Monday 27 November — conclusion of a debate on the autumn statement . Tuesday 28 November — Second reading of the Criminal Justice Bill . Wednesday 29 November — remain stage of the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . Thursday 30 November — general debate . subject to be confirm . Friday 1 December — the House will not be sit . I thank the Leader of the House for give we the business . I thank all those who ensure that Armistice Day and Remembrance Sunday constituency event pass off safely . I want to ask the Leader of the House about two issue . first , before the ink be even dry on the King ' s Speech , the Prime Minister have announce emergency legislation — you could not make it up ! the Supreme Court ruling against the Government be as damn as it be clear . it conclude that deep and institutional issue in Rwanda make it not a safe country . that should not have come as a surprise to the Government , because they have be warn for month . the Prime Minister bet the house that he would win and he lose . before his new legislative programme have even get under way , we have more desperate wheeze to salvage his sinking plan : a new treaty , which could take week of parliamentary time to ratify ; and new law , which a former Supreme Court judge brand " discreditable " . why do the Home Secretary not say anything about that to Parliament yesterday ? it be yet another announcement to the medium and not to this place . will the Leader of the House tell we more about how this be all go to work ? what legal effect will this emergency legislation have ? when will we see it ? how much parliamentary time do she think this be all go to take ? what will be drop from the Government ' s recently announce Bills to make way for this ? if the Government be so confident that this be what it will take , why do they not do it month ago instead of sit around wait for this judgment , as though Parliament have not spend week and week consider these issue and legislate to deal with they ? the Government could have amend the Illegal Migration Act 2023 instead , could they not ? or be the former Home Secretary right when she say that the Government " fail to prepare any … credible plan b " ? be the new Home Secretary right when he say yesterday that he do not see a case for come out of international agreement ? or do the Leader of the House agree with the Prime Minister that we could do so ? these be desperation tactic to try to make the Government look as though they be do something , when the truth be that this be a failed , unworkable and costly plan that leave their pledge to stop the boat strand . secondly , the Prime Minister seemingly could not find a suitable candidate to be Foreign Secretary from among his own mps and instead appoint David Cameron to the House of Lords . at a time of war in Europe , a horrify conflict in Israel and Gaza , and threat from China , Iran and elsewhere , elect Members here be now unable to hold the Foreign Secretary to account . I agree entirely with you , Mr Speaker , that this House must be able to scrutinise his work effectively , because , let we be honest , there be a lot to hold he accountable for : his link with China , which the Intelligence and Security Committee say may have be " engineer " by the chinese state ; his policy towards China , famously drink pint with President Xi and hail a " golden era " ; and his involvement with Greensill Capital , which be describe by the Treasury Committee as a " significant lack of judgment " , but none the less make he personally million of pound rich . the Government proposal that the Minister for Development and Africa , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , will stand in be entirely insufficient . the last time the House be in this situation , Conservative Members be furious and demand that question must be answer in this place . the then Labour Government be set to bring in the recommendation of the Procedure Committee at the time . do the Leader of the House agree that we should immediately dust off that report and bring forward a motion to put its recommendation in place quickly ? they include regular accountability session for the Foreign Secretary in Westminster Hall as a starter . will she do that before we be next due to hear from the Foreign Secretary ? finally , can the Leader of the House confirm whether the appointment of David Cameron have be approve by the independent adviser on ministerial interest ? if not , when will that be do ? or be this another case of make the wrong call , such as when the Prime Minister appoint his first Deputy Prime Minister , his first Home Secretary and his first Minister without Portfolio , all of whom face serious allegation that later lead to their departure ? this be another poor judgment from a weak Prime Minister , drift to defeat . I agree with the comment that the hon . Lady make about Armistice Day and Remembrance weekend . I thank all member who take part in event around the country and overseas to commemorate and thank our servicemen and woman , and to remember the fallen . I particularly thank the police , who have an incredibly difficult job on their hand in London at the weekend . it be a gift that every one of we in this place can raise issue in debate via amendment and other device . as a Member and as Leader of the House , I will always defend that right , but it do not absolve we from think through the consequence of one course of action over another . the debate last night show the House , include its two main party and the bulk of Members , unite in its support for Israel ' s duty to protect her people , an end to suffer for all civilian and a long - term peaceful solution . since the vote last night , I know some member have come under increase stress . no matter which way people vote , it will have be a consider decision . no matter whether people agree with they or not , it be their duty to exercise their own judgment . today , all member should think about what they can do to defuse such threat make against our colleague in this place . I thank Mr Speaker for his care in ensure we can go about our business and do our duty . I thank the family of those hold hostage by Hamas for their time come into Parliament this week to talk to parliamentarian . I know I speak for all here when I say that we will do all in our power to bring they home . turn to the question raise by the shadow Leader of the House , her first point be about Rwanda . she will expect I to say that further business will be announce in the usual way , but as she will have hear from the Prime Minister , we want to introduce this legislation swiftly . it be part of a plan of action that he have set out and that have be work on by the Home Office and other Departments , together with the large ever small boat deal with France ; a new agreement with Albania , which have already return nearly 5 , 000 people in the last 10 month and cut albanian small boat arrival by more than 90 % ; an almost 70 % increase in the number of illegal work raid ; a triple in the number of asylum decision since the start of the year ; a plan to close the first 50 asylum hotel ; and the legislation that we have bring forward . there be many point of difference , but one key difference be that we believe there must be a deterrent element to our response . the hon . Lady ' s party vote 70 time against the legislation that we have bring forward and Opposition Members also support block the deportation of foreign criminal . the people of this country want our border to be protect and control . they want to ensure that we be free and able to help those we wish to and have the great obligation to . under the last Labour Government , the mode of illegal travel here be largely haulage . we end that . Brexit have also give we many more option to shape who come here legally . we must end the scourge of these appalling people - trafficker . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , assist by my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and other , have help we thus far , and I thank they for all the work that they have be do . it have be difficult work . there be more to do , but we be a step close to the deterrent that we seek . I urge the shadow Leader of the House to support we in our effort . we will introduce legislation ; it be quite normal , as she know , to do that even if it be not include in the King ' s Speech . there be many potential situation for that to arise on a number of issue face Parliament in this session . the hon . Lady raise the issue of the new Foreign Secretary , a person who have do a tremendous amount on the last topic that she raise — combat illegal migration — through his work with Professor Paul Collier and the work that he have do on conflict state . he be ahead of the curve on that issue , and I think that he will make an excellent Foreign Secretary . she be right that the House must be able to hold he to account . this be not an unusual situation ; it have happen before with the noble Lords Mandelson , Adonis , Frost , Morgan and I think other . the hon . Lady should be reassure that Mr Speaker have take advice on the matter . my understanding be that the Procedure Committee will be consult on the good way forward . she allude to some of the option that may be require of the new Foreign Secretary , who I know will want to be accountable to this House . there be very important matter in front of we . next year will be an unprecedented year for election across the world , with significant consequence for this nation and an ever - increase set of complex issue that I know all hon . member will want to question the Foreign Secretary on . she have my assurance in that respect . further business will be announce in the usual way . I call the Father of the House . the House and my right hon . friend will know of my personal and political interest in residential leasehold reform . when might the leasehold and freehold reform Bill come to the House , and will she join I in give more publicity to the consultation , " modern leasehold : restrict rent on exist lease " , which start a week ago and will last for another five week ? the ground rent issue affect up to 6 million household . Most people do not know that the Government be consider five alternative for restrict it . will she help to publicise that , and say when the Bill might be introduce so that the House can consider the issue ? my hon . friend , who be very experienced , have already provide a solution to one part of his question by get that on the record and advertise it to all hon . member . I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear of his particular interest . he will not be surprised to hear I say that further business will be announce in the usual way , but I shall endeavour to ensure that he be keep inform by the Department of progress on the Bill . I call the SNP spokesperson . People in Scotland learn something this week : however much we dislike and distrust this Tory Government , it be nothing compare with how much they utterly loathe each other . those letter , email and WhatsApp message show that they spend their time attack each other , leave no time to help people struggle with the Tory mortgage and rent bombshell or with rocket energy bill , and no time to reduce NHS waiting list in England , now approach 8 million , or to cap food inflation , which be still run at over 10 % . they be way too busy fight like rat in a sack . even their squalid , unlawful Rwanda scheme have fall apart . however , I bring good news to the Leader of the House to cheer she up — news from a part of the UK where a government be get on with the job ; where not a single day have be lose in the NHS to industrial dispute ; where teacher be the well pay in the UK ; where the scottish child payment be take ten of thousand out of poverty ; where the railway have be take into public ownership ; where there be free school meal for all pupil , P1 to p5 ; where there be more gps per head than anywhere in the UK ; where those age 60 and over get free bus travel , along with our under - 22 - year - old ; and where we offer free university tuition , free prescription , free eye test , and free personal care to our old folk . that be in Scotland under the SNP - lead Scottish Government , as the Leader of the House know , but her Government have a cunning plan to make everything come good : a new Minister for common sense — a wokefinder general , to search out wake thinking and eliminate it . the job be in the safe hand of someone who be allow to attend Cabinet , but be prohibit from speak in meeting — and anyone who know the new Minister know that a period of silence may be her first and overwhelming challenge . for some light relief in this very bleak week for her government , could the Leader of the House help many of her baffled colleague and try to give we her definition of " wake " ? I be sure that you , Mr Speaker , would take a dim view of it if I refuse to answer the hon . Lady ' s question — if I just stand here in silence because I do not fancy do it , or object strongly to the content and tone of the question . have I do that , you might ask why I show up this morning if I be not prepared to do my duty in this House and to show respect to the House . it would be a bit like attend at the Cenotaph and not singe the national anthem . the hon . Lady display a distinct lack of self - awareness . I grow tired of read out to she each week statistic on the performance of her own government , but since she invite I to again , let I give she two statistic that address the issue she raise . in England , the NHS 18 - month waiting list be down by 94 % since September 2021 ; and a doctor or a headteacher in Scotland pay approximately £ 2 , 000 more in tax . I will continue to do my duty to this House , and to remind the SNP of their appalling record in government , which be obvious to everyone except they . finally , on all sort of issue that many would perhaps describe as " woke " this Government have a proud record , because we recognise that compassion and care for everyone in our society be very important . that be why we do the large ever LGBT action plan , from which we want practical measure that would make a difference to people ' s life . Conservatism , to I , have always be about the practical impact that we have on people ' s life , and step up and take responsibility , not just for ourselves but for other people . give her background and life experience , I think that my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , who will now sit at the Cabinet Table , will be very good in that role . transition toward net zero and increase renewable energy be critical , but we need a just transition . I be conscious that constituent in Suffolk Coastal feel that a lot of the onshore infrastructure be be put in an unsuitable place , when far down the coast , at Bradwell in Essex , there be an ideal brownfield site to accommodate it . will my right hon . friend find time for a debate — perhaps it could be the general debate next Thursday , which be yet to be announce — in which we could discuss the importance of rewire the national grid ? first , may I place on the record — on behalf of everyone in this place , I be sure — our thank to my right hon . friend for all the work she do in her former Department ? I know she be incredibly passionate about that work , go right back to when she be a junior Minister in that Department , and she should be very proud of the many thing she enable to happen on her double watch . I thank she for raise this issue in her constituency , which I know she be very concerned about . the Secretary of State have make it a priority and be give it a lot more attention and focus , and I shall make sure that she be aware of my right hon . friend ' s particular interest . I call and congratulate the unopposed Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , Ian Mearns . I be very grateful , Mr Speaker . I have have the privilege of be in that role since June 2015 , although I have a funny feeling this will be my last term in it , for a whole range of different reason — [ hon . member : " no ! " ] well , the holder have to be a member of the Opposition . as we speak , the Committee can not yet meet , but I understand that all political party have make or be make nomination to the Committee of Selection . as soon as it agree the nomination , the Backbench Business Committee can get up and run again . I hope that the first meeting can take place as soon as Tuesday 28 November . if it can happen before then , we certainly will try to ensure that it do . I understand from the Clerks that there be already a queue of application to be present to the Committee ; we will try to get that all together as soon as possible . bus driver and other staff employ by Go North East be on indefinite strike in a pay dispute . they seek pay parity with their company colleague in the north - west region . the strike leave constituent almost totally stranded and unable to get to work , place of study , hospital and shop . can we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Transport about his intention to bring an end to this dire paralysis in my Gateshead constituency and across the wide north - east region ? go North East provide bus service to a large part of the north - east region , and I be afraid to say it be no go at the moment . I add my congratulation to the hon . gentleman on remain Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , and thank he for all the work he do in that respect . I come here every week to this Dispatch Box with reason to vote conservative , and he have furnish we with another one , because we do not want to lose he as Chairman of that Committee . he have my assurance that we be committed to the swift establishment of the Committee . if that can not be do before the general debate , subject to be announce , that I announce in the business question , we will take a steer from the topic that his Committee have already look at . I be very sorry to hear about the disruption to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent ' ability to travel . he will know that that be a concern to this Government . it be one reason why we have bring forward legislation to guarantee minimum service level in area such as transport and emergency service . it be incredibly important that industrial action , particularly when it take place over long period of time , do not disrupt people ' s life and cause they , for example , to lose their job , as have be happen in other part of the country . I urge he to reflect on whether he could support those measure , particularly for specific sector , that we will bring forward in this session . about 40 year ago I have an unlikely campaigning role that involve organise counter - demonstration to certain mass marche , but one area we never have to worry about be the vicinity of Parliament , because no demonstration be allow in Parliament Square . the reason give for that be that member must not be impede in enter or leave the Houses of Parliament . even if demonstration continue to be allow in Parliament Square , it should be a common concern to those on both side of the House that member find themselves get advice from their whip on which exit they can not use for fear of be mob by an unauthorised demonstration that come right up to the gate of Parliament . this really have go too far . soon or later there will be an incident , unless security on enter and leave the Houses of Parliament be restore . I thank my right hon . friend for raise this important matter . it be quite right that Members of Parliament and their staff should be able to go about their business in safety and security , and should not be disrupt in do so . Mr Speaker be particularly concerned about this even prior to yesterday ' s incident , and have be work with Palace security and other organisation to ensure the safety of member of Parliament in particular . since the Deputy Speaker be in the Chair , I shall make sure that Mr Speaker have hear my right hon . friend ' s concern , and I will ask that my right hon . friend be keep inform of progress on such matter . I be sorry to ask the right hon . Lady about this again , because I know she be one of the angel on this matter , but when I ask she last summer about conversion therapy , she promise a draft bill on the subject in the last session . there be no draft Bill , and there be nothing in the King ' s Speech . the Government say that be because this be very complicated . it be not complicated . load of country have measure on this , and have have for year . be the real reason , as I have be tell , that the Minister for Women and Equalities herself be block this much - need reform ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that bring an end to these practice be a manifesto commitment . it remain a manifesto commitment . he will also know that this be a complex situation . a lot of work have already be do , particularly by faith group , to enable idea and solution to be bring forward . I thank all member who have engage on this , particularly with the Minister who lead on the issue , to try to make progress . the Secretary of State be still look at the policy on this , and she be very aware that the House will want her decision bring forward . I know that she be take great care to ensure that we can protect people who might be vulnerable to these kind of barbaric practice . later today , Councillor Garry Perry from my constituency will be attend the Local Government Information Unit and CCLA councillor award . Garry have be shortlist for a lifetime legend award , in recognition of his dedication to build a safe , strong , green and more resilient community . will my right hon . friend join I in wish he all the good in the award later today ? I do not know whether it be audible to those listen , but there be chorus of approval from around the House . I speak on behalf of all of we when I say to Councillor Garry Perry : thank you for your decade of service to your community . our councillor be all unsung hero . they do a tremendous amount of work and good in their community , and I wish Garry and all other nominee who have be short - list for these award good luck ; they have our thank . air pollution be an invisible killer . over 40 , 000 people in the UK die each year as a consequence of dirty air . the clean air zone introduce in Bath by the Liberal Democrat - run council have reduce nitrogen dioxide by over a quarter , which be an impressive achievement , save life . can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of clean air and what the Government can do to support local council ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point . she will know that this have be a focus for the government ; they have identify zone around the country that need improvement and ensure that local authority can put measure in place to address these matter . this be an area where we can benefit from share good practice across the country . it be important that we do these thing while still enable economic growth to flourish , as we know we can . I be sure that if she be to apply for a debate on the subject , it would be well attend . can we have a debate on the failure of the Metropolitan police to investigate an openly terrorist - support Socialist Workers party pamphlet , which have be report on in several newspaper , entitle " Palestine : Resistance , Revolution and the Struggle for Hamas " ? it have be on sale during the protest marche every weekend in London , and it include the line : " we unconditionally support Hamas when it be engage in military or non - military struggle against Israel . " this poison have be on sale for week , include , I be tell , right outside this House , in Parliament Square . do my right hon . friend agree that the police should act under section 12 of the Terrorism Act 2000 ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for raise this important matter — it be extremely disturbing to hear that . he will know that the police chief have our total backing in use the full extent of the law to crack down on any criminality , and what he describe sound like it fall into that category . the police have power to arrest those who belong to or glorify terrorist group such as Hamas under the Terrorism Act 2000 and anyone who incite racial hatred under the Public Order Act 1986 , and we support they in use those power . I be afraid that the Socialist Workers be rentagob who show up to all kind of protest , spout all kind of hate , and deserve a close look . as the Leader of the House may be aware , I be co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for access to medical cannabis under prescription . currently , young Teagan Appleby , who be a constituent of the hon . member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , be in hospital in London and very poorly . the former Minister make every effort in his role to break down the barrier for medicinal cannabis under prescription to child with epilepsy . will the Leader of the House please urge the new Minister to call a roundtable of all the stakeholder , so that those child can get the medicine they deserve ? I thank the hon . Lady and my hon . friend the Member for Dover for the work they have be do on this issue . I will certainly make sure that the new Secretary of State have hear about the hon . Lady ' s comment today and be aware of her interest in this matter . I bring some sad news to the House this morning : my conservative predecessor , Sir Thomas Arnold , die on Tuesday . he be know to many on the Conservative Benches for his year of work — a decade or so — as chair of candidate . he be the godson of Ivor Novello , and as well as inherit the right to various of his musical , he also inherit his piano . he be quite a character and be a great support to I , and give I much wise advice ; whether I always follow it be a different matter . as chair of candidate , Sir Thomas oversee the 1987 and 1992 election , and be responsible — or , indeed , culpable — for a number of member be in this House today . his guide word be these : " the Conservative Party … be look for man and woman who have a good work knowledge of contemporary politic and a prove track record of experience … who above all know their own mind . " with those word in mind , might the Leader of the House be able to facilitate a debate so that we can all learn how party across the House can attract such candidate to be elect to this place ? I be sure I speak for all member present when I say how sorry we be at that sad news , and that our thought be with Sir Thomas ' s friend and family . he achieve the only conservative gain in the 1974 election , which be the second time he stand for Parliament . he be parliamentary private Secretary in the Northern Ireland Office and later in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office . he be vice - chairman of the party under Peter Brooke in 1983 , and I be tell that the most enjoyable time he spend in Parliament be when he head the Commons Treasury Select Committee , which include an investigation into the downfall of Barings bank . he achieve a great deal for this country , and we remember he and his service fondly . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] on 26 October in a point of order , I name Zaher Birawi and Muhammad Qassem Sawalha as Hamas operative live in London . since then , further Hamas operative such as Majed Khalil al - Zeer and Ziad El Aloul have come to light as british national with link to Hamas , a terrorist organisation . give the national security implication , can we have an urgent statement in Government time on what the Home Office be do about Hamas operative here in Britain ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter , which I know be a concern for many member across the House . we have give the police new and update power , and we will continue to look at what further support they can be give to tackle this appalling situation . there can be absolutely no tolerance for anyone who facilitate or support terrorism — that be very clear , and I think that view be share on all side of this House , even if some member sometimes find it hard to articulate it . as the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) have say , Teagan Appleby , my teenage constituent , be at the moment in intensive care across the road in the Evelina London Children ' s Hospital . my right hon . friend will know from my question and her answer in June , that it be an urgent matter for Teagan to have support from the Government to have fund for and access to her medicinal cannabis , which she need to manage her epilepsy . that meeting — my right hon . friend be kind in her support for it and her follow - up with the Department of Health — have still not happen . can I ask my right hon . friend to pass another message to the Health Secretary to say , not that we need another the meeting on this issue , but that we need action and that we need the funding to be available to every single child who need access to this medicine now ? there need to be , in the autumn statement , a special fund set aside to allow these child to have access to the medicine they need . teagan ' s mother , Emma , could not do any more , and she be heartbroken when she send I a message overnight — at midnight — that Teagan be now intubated and that she have to be keep in that medical state to manage 19 day of constant seizure . I be extremely sorry to hear what my hon . friend have say . I do appreciate that member across this House will have have experience in which we be very invest in the wellbeing of our constituent , and I know this will be a very difficult time not just for Teagan and her family , but for my hon . friend and other who have campaign on this issue . I be very disappointed to hear that the Department of Health have not meet my hon . friend . I wish to make it clear , and I do make it clear to Departments , that my request for meeting between official or Ministers and Members of this House be not optional . this House can call people to meet it in Select Committees , and Government Departments be fund to provide service to this House , and I be really very disappointed that the Department of Health have not do that . I know that immediately after this session , even though I will be in the Chamber , my official will contact the Department of Health and , through my parliamentary private Secretary , will contact the Secretary of State for Health to make she aware of this situation . we appreciate that we can not make clinical decision on behalf of individual patient , but what we can ensure be that , if a drug or medical device could benefit a patient , the system be in place to ensure that they get access to it . even if it be not for a nice - approve treatment , people in this country still have that right . we will facilitate an immediate meeting with the Department of Health , and I will be keep inform of progress on this matter . Scotland be energy rich — in the last two month alone , Scotland export 3 . 2 million MWh of electricity through the grid to England — yet along with the people of north Wales , Scots pay the high electricity cost in the UK . londoner pay £ 246 a year in stand charge before a switch or a gas hob be turn on , but in the part of the UK where lighting and heating be turn on far early and turn off far later , these standing charge be over one third higher , at £ 333 a year . do the Leader of the House really think that be fair , and if not , will she facilitate a debate on these unjust standing charge ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this point . I think standing charge should get scrutiny from this House . I know that many hon . and right hon . member will have concern in all part of the UK about fairness and how some charge be be apply . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . I be sure that , if he be to apply for a debate , it would be well attend . as we see in yesterday ' s King ' s Speech debate , some view on the Gaza conflict be become dangerously oversimplified and binary — someone be either in favour of a ceasefire , or they be in favour of the war continue . that be not just misleading , it be also provocative . will the government utilise a statement or hold a debate to confirm Britain ' s position on support a humanitarian pause — a position that be adopt by United Nations Security Council resolution 2712 last night ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise that issue . he have great experience in this area . he be right , and I think the view be express well last night that in call for a ceasefire , what people have be ask be for Israel to deviate from its duty to protect its citizen and defend itself . if Israel put down its arm , it cease to exist . that be the situation now , and only the end of Hamas , or whatever might try to take their place , and a long - term solution that guarantee peace , will enable it to do that . that be very important . we have a proud track record of protect international humanitarian law and protect citizen . we monitor closely what go on not just with this situation but with other , include the attention to detail and care that Israel be take in ensure that it be the right side of that line . my right hon . friend will know that on recent operation , the israeli Defence Forces will have have humanitarian and medical professional embed in its force to ensure that that happen . I repeat what I say at the start of this question : whatever hon . member decide to do in this place , base on their conscience , they should be allow to do it . we can all take care of each other in this place when hon . member , inevitably and sadly , come under threat for do so . November mark Islamophobia Awareness Month , which be a time for everyone commit to equality and anti - racism to reiterate their position on Islamophobia , and their dedication to stamp out that hate . it have now be five year since the all - party group on british Muslims publish its definition of Islamophobia , which be back by community group , academic , political party , trade union , and many council . it be four year since the Government commit to develop an official definition , and one year since they decide that tackle hatred against Muslims be not important and abandon that plan . give that Islamophobia be up by 600 % since October , will the Leader of the House urge the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to come to the House and give a statement on his work on tackle Islamophobia ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important point . I will certainly write to the Secretary of State , and to other Secretaries of State who will have an interest , to ensure that they have hear what he say . I recently visit Birmingham to show support to the jewish community there in the wake of some of the attack that they be have to endure . I be strike by the fact that the local Muslim community have come over to the Hebrew centre to show support , to condemn Hamas , and to stand with the jewish community in the wake of those attack . when I inquire why they have do that , they tell I that as well as be the right thing to do , in the wake of 9 / 11 , when the muslim community have come under attack and be associate — wrongly — with those terrorist atrocity , the jewish community come and stand between they and an angry mob , to protect they . what be often lose in the recent scene we have see be the decade of quiet work between different faith community who all believe in the same God . may I ask for a debate in Government time on the scrutiny of financial service regulation ? since we leave the European Union , that have be undertake by a Sub - Committee of the Treasury Committee . we have appoint expert adviser , we regularly take evidence on new consultation from the regulator and we have publish report to keep the House inform about that scrutiny for well over a year now . I be therefore a bit surprised yesterday to see that the Liaison Committee in the other place have publish a recommendation that it set up a financial service regulation scrutiny committee . paragraph 10 and 15 of its report suggest that that committee would substantially duplicate and potentially contradict our , and of course it would cost Parliament a significant sum to set up . if the Leader of the House be not able to spare Government time to debate this important topic , would she be kind enough to write to her counterpart in the other place to express the concern of our cross - party membership that the propose committee would duplicate the work that we be already do and have thoroughly establish in this House ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . Madam Deputy Speaker be smile at I to remind I , I think , of my responsibility . I can not ask the other place to change its scrutiny arrangement : it be responsible for those . however , my hon . friend make a good point about economy of effort , and I will certainly be able to make sure that the Lords have hear what she have say today . I hope that a way forward can be find that be in the interest of both Chambers . despite there be seven constituency in the great county of Leicestershire , more than half of all the illegal migrant in hotel in the county be locate in just one of they . my constituent thank the Government immensely for that enrichment of our life . follow the Supreme Court ruling yesterday against the Government ' s Rwanda policy , can we have a statement and a debate in Government time on how we can secure this country ' s border and dissuade illegal migrant from travel to our country ? hopefully , one day , we may get some hotel back for the enjoyment of the local population . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important point . I be sure he have meet the Home Secretary about his first point . if he have not to date , I would encourage he to do so . I be sure that if we be to hold a debate on this matter , it would be very well attend . I would like to use Government time to bring forward further legislation that enable we to get the Rwanda scheme work , and I hope that the hon . Gentleman would support that . he will know that the Minister for Immigration have announce the closure of the first wave of asylum hotel . I do not know if any of those be in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , but he will know that that be the first tranche of several . yesterday , more than 60 member of this House and the other place meet under the auspex of the all - party Britain - Israel parliamentary group and witness the video of the true atrocity commit by Hamas on 7 October . rarely have I see member of this House and the other place so silent and so horrified . in contrast , overnight the Israel Defence Forces have facilitate the medium to enter the Al - Shifa Hospital , the rantisi child ' s hospital and the Nasser Hospital , all of which have be demonstrate to be command and control centre and weapon centre . at the child ' s hospital , there be clear evidence that hostage be keep there by Hamas and have subsequently be move . that be in direct contrast to what many people have see in the medium across the world from those people who support Hamas . may we have a statement from the Government , probably from a Foreign Office Minister in this place , on exactly what be happen in term of progress in liberate Gaza from Hamas and the attempt be make by the IDF to minimise civilian casualty as this terrible war continue ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important point . he be correct that it be now clear that hospital and other civilian place have be use by Hamas . that be not news : a 2015 report by Amnesty International allege that the Shifa Hospital have serve as a Hamas interrogation and torture centre for some time . to reassure the House , Members will know that the Israel Defence Forces be do a huge amount and take great care with regard to civilian life , as they do the very difficult job of clear these area out and try to destroy Hamas and their network . the IDF transfer incubator , baby food and additional medical supply to hospital compound , and on Sunday they open up additional humanitarian corridor from various hospital for civilian and patient to evacuate — on foot if they could , or via ambulance — to the south . the israeli - operate humanitarian corridor have reportedly be use by approximately a quarter of a million Palestinians . today , I understand that Israel be facilitate the provision of fuel to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency to enable the delivery of aid into Gaza . its job be make hard by the operation of Hamas — I think that , in term of get people out , a third of the name on the list provide by Hamas to Egypt and Israel be know Hamas terrorist , lead to delay in civilian get the medical attention they require . this be an incredibly difficult situation , and I urge all hon . member to be keep inform and up to date about what be happen on the ground . the Leader of the House may be aware that there be a sale in principle that will secure the future of Newport Wafer Fab in my constituency . I have just secure a meeting with the Minister , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , to discuss next step when he sadly fall victim to the Prime Minister ' s reshuffle this week . can the Leader of the House tell I which Minister be now responsible for the semiconductor industry , and will she help I get a meeting in the diary as a matter of urgency ? I be pleased to hear the good news in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . my job be to ensure that baton be not drop during reshuffle , and I shall be very happy to assist she in ensure that it be not drop in this case . I rise yet again to bring to the Leader of the House another tale of woe , incompetence and financial stupidity from Mid Devon Liberal Democrats . the elect idiot have drive the council to bankruptcy , because they will not make saving , but their useless leader have give themselves a bung of £ 50 , 000 , which be obviously ridiculous . I also notice that the head of scrutiny — another incompetent , for God ' s sake — be live near luxury house in Bampton , which be for sale ; they be mean to be low - cost housing . can we please have a debate — again , I ask the Government for this — so that this ridiculous council can be hold to account and stop cost the taxpayer of Mid Devon million because of its absolute incompetence ? this be a familiar refrain that we hear from my hon . friend about the difficulty that his constituent be have to endure because of his local authority . he have provide his own answer by get it on the record . I know that he will urge his constituent and other to make a different choice as soon as they can , at the next local election , about who should be run their local authority . this be not about Mid Devon . a large amount of electricity be generate from wind power in my constituency in the north of Scotland , and more will be generate in the future . it be necessary to get that electricity to where it be need — conurbation in England and Wales — and the proposal be to take it south by mean of colossal pylon . those pylon and their propose route be cause much concern to the community who will be near to they . constituent and people live in other part of Scotland — this affect right hon . and hon . member all over Scotland — have suggest to I that the electricity should be move by mean of subsea cable . this be a strategic decision for the UK for many year to come . I have write to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero request a meeting to discuss the matter . may I ask the right hon . Lady what advice she have for I in take it forward ? I thank the hon . gentleman for all his work on behalf of his constituent . I thank he for early warning of the topic he would raise . that be very helpful , because I have hear from the Minister that a meeting will be facilitate , and I will ensure that that happen in good order . farming community and rural business in my constituency and across the country face many challenge . we have a new Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs in post , so could we have a debate in Government time so that he can outline how he intend to meet the challenge of the rural community ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter for the often unsung hero of our country , who be do a tremendous amount to feed we , build resilience and take care of our precious countryside . I will certainly make sure that the new Secretary of State have hear of his interest in this matter . he will know that the Secretary of State ' s predecessor produce an action plan for rural community , but the farming community will be a tremendous focus of the new Secretary of State . we must support farmer , as large enterprise , to do what we ask of they and to thrive . we know that conservative leader past and present be fond of travel on private jet . in respect of David Cameron , it be a matter of public record that the Treasury Committee refer the question of his travel on the Greensill Capital private jet to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs for tax purpose . can the Leader of the House confirm that the outcome of those inquiry be consider by the House of Lords Appointments Commission before he be make Foreign Secretary ? my understanding be that all the process for scrutinise and approve appointment to the House of Lords and ministerial office have be follow . I think that all investigation into David Cameron — I think I can still refer to he as that — prior to his elevation to the Lords have close . however , some thing be still open . GFG ' s relationship with Greensill Capital be still part of investigation be conduct by the Serious Fraud Office . the SNP give GFG £ 586 million to guarantee job at a smelting plant that never materialise , and the group also happen to sponsor its 2018 party conference . can we have a debate on local funding priority and the importance of community consultation on they be fairly word and accessible to all ? labour - lead Cheshire East Council be consider impose unwarranted car parking charge even in residential neighbourhood , and be moot close Holmes Chapel and Middlewich leisure centre — community facility that be vital to the wellbeing of all age . the council be also consider stop maintenance on 80 green site , risk eyesore and tipping . of those , 36 be on the lovely Grange way estate in Sandbach in my constituency , where those amenity land have be publicly maintain for over 50 year . my hon . friend will know that , under the Local Government Act 1999 , a council must make arrangement to secure continuous improvement in the way that its function be exercise , and have regard to a combination of economy , efficiency and effectiveness . it must consult local people about how it should fulfil that duty . there be mountain of good practice on the high street portal , which demonstrate that introduce parking charge where those core principle be not take into account be often a disaster . I encourage my hon . friend to look at that to help she in her valiant argument against what the council be plan to do . the next question to the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be on 4 December , but I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear her concern and ask Ministers to assist she in her important campaign . follow on from my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , in this place I have repeatedly raise the scandal and injustice of stand charge on energy bill , which continue to rise . finally , at long last , Ofgem be review those charge and may get to a stage where it take action to abolish they . will the Leader of the House make a statement and lend her voice to call for the abolition of these opaque charge , which hit the very poor household hard in my constituency and across the UK ? that be not in my portfolio , but as a constituency MP I have long talk about standing charge and it be good that they be be look at . the Secretary of State be also keen to ensure that where the charge exist they be fair . it be quite wrong that in some case people could be pay £ 30 a month , even if they be not use any energy at all . we be not help the poor in our society unless we be focus on ensure that such charge be fair . the hon . Lady be right to point out that this issue be be look at . she be not the first Member to mention it today and I shall bring it to the Secretary of State ' s attention that she have also raise it . the most powerful wind turbine in England go up recently in my constituency at Checkley Wood with local support . it can generate 4 . 1 MW , which be enough to power 2 , 500 home . will the Government ensure that local community benefit from cheap power , especially from single or very small cluster high - capacity turbine , which be so much less visually intrusive ? I thank my hon . friend and his constituent for what they be do to make our nation resilient . the Government want to ensure that community that participate in such facility also benefit from they . we have publish a consultation on how the current system of community benefit in England can be improve . that close in July and the Government will shortly bring forward the result , and no doubt further policy . I thank he for raise this matter . may we have a debate on the appalling service offer by the Home Office ? I have be work for over a year with a constituent who have be try to get a visa for his family , include a young baby , who be currently in Pakistan as refugee , have flee Afghanistan . despite jump through numerous hoop , my constituent ' s family still do not have a visa and the Pakistan authority be seek to deport refugee back to Afghanistan . I email the Home Office urgent inquiry inbox — I emphasise " urgent " — on 25 October , but after three week I have have no response . it really do beg the question : what exactly be the Home Office do ? I be very sorry to hear that situation . if the hon . Gentleman would give my official the detail of that case , I will make sure it be raise immediately this afternoon . the Home Office offer , as I have advertise before , surgery for colleague with these sort of case , either online or in person in this place . if he have not make use of that to date I encourage he to do so , but give the urgency I shall make sure that the Home Office have hear what he have say this afternoon . for far too many month now , constituent across Crawley have be subject to substandard service from Royal Mail , with some street go undelivered for week at a time . disabled constituent be have to go to their local post office to pick up their mail . in one road there be a dog attack at one house , so now the whole road be not be deliver . unfortunately , the response from Royal Mail have be really inappropriate . if we be to continue with a universal service that people can rely on , we really do need to see improvement . may we please have a statement ? this be not the first case of that service slip that I have hear about recently . it be not just about people not receive document in a timely way ; it can also be about people not receive medicine and other important thing , or miss hospital and doctor ' appointment because they be not inform about they . it be an important issue , and I thank my hon . friend for raise it . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear about the case that he have raise in connection with Crawley , but I will emphasise in my letter that I know the matter be of concern to many member on both side of the House , and will ask the Secretary of State to ensure that Royal Mail be be hold to account for the service standard that it be require to deliver . yesterday the deputy chairman of the conservative party advocate break the law in response to the Supreme Court ' s rule on the Government ' s inhumane and illegal proposal concern Rwanda . may I ask the Leader of the House what step be available to member to hold senior member of the govern party to account when they make such damaging statement which undermine the rule of law ? may I also ask she what she think this mean for the self - proclaim party of law and order ? one of the reason we be test these matter in the court and why we be have to proceed at this pace — we want to move fast — be that we want to ensure that what we be propose be compliant with the law . if it be not compliant with the law , it will not work . that be why we be go through this process , and that be why , if necessary , we will do what we have do before and will continue to do , and make amendment to the statute book to enable we to do this . we be absolutely determined and unite in our mission to ensure that we can control and protect the border of this country . the criminal gang who wish to bring people here illegally — people who be place in tremendous jeopardy — will continue to adapt their model of business to try to get around the new measure that we introduce , but we be go to continue , and we be beat they . boat crossing be down by a third in the last 12 month . we wish to end they completely : that be our mission , and that be what we will do . the big transport hub in my constituency , Barnstaple bus station , have not reopen since the pandemic , which have limit user ' access to shelter and toilet . the Liberal Democrat - run district council be not pursue option to reopen the space to the public , such as by find an operator for the caf é . this be put user off take the bus into town , which can have a knock - on effect on business in the high street , especially as we enter the crucial pre - Christmas period . ahead of Small Business Saturday , may we have a debate on the role of council in support our high street by provide key facility ? I be sorry to say that the performance of Liberal Democrat - run local authority have be something of a theme in this session of business question , and I be very sorry to hear about the situation in North Devon . as my hon . friend will know , we have make available not only funding but advice and support to enable high street to thrive , and also to enable community asset transfer to take place . I see an example of that when I visit a local social enterprise in my hon . friend ' s constituency which be help town centre and village to continue as thrive community . this be so important that any delay in ensure that people can enjoy these facility be inexcusable . I thank my hon . friend for the campaign that she be run on behalf of her constituent , and I will ask the Secretary of State to see whether there be anything far he can advise about what she can do . I will advertise Small Business Saturday on 2 December to all Members , and I thank my hon . friend again for the work she be do for her constituency . may I begin by say how encouraged I be , and we all be , by the fact that the Leader of the House come here every week to answer our question and our request ? it be , hopefully , appreciate by everyone — certainly by most of we . I think it important to put that on record . in an October attack in Tunisia , a non - function synagogue be set on fire and seriously damage during a protest . Police do not stop the attack . various attack in the Russian North Caucasus have leave local jewish community afraid for their safety . there have be no word , or no response , from the russian Government on those attack . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn the rise tide of antisemitism result from the Israel - Hamas war , and will she ask the relevant Minister from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to call for proper governmental response to antisemitism in the region that I have mention ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . the feeling be entirely mutual , as we be all very grateful to he for raise particular case of appal thing that have happen around the world . they may not be headline news , but they be devastating to those community , and particularly to faith community that be be persecute . I will make sure that the new Foreign Secretary have hear what the hon . Gentleman say and understand his keen interest in this area . it be incumbent on all of we to recognise and tackle antisemitism , which have be around for a long time but be now on the rise . we need to combat it , and we need to ensure that community , wherever they be in the UK or around the world , feel able to go about their business in safety and security , and feel able to wear symbol of their faith without fear as they live their daily life . it be our first duty to ensure that , particularly in the United Kingdom , and I thank he for remind we of it each week . can we have a debate in Government time on rural broadband and mobile connectivity ? when I be elect in 2019 , superfast broadband connectivity in Hinckley and Bosworth stand at only 0 . 2 % ; it be now over 67 % . I urge anyone listen to contact my office to help increase that number . there be still hard and stubborn blackspot for mobile and broadband connectivity , so can we have a debate to make sure these vital service be there for my constituent ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter on behalf of his constituent . basic 5 g be now available in about 85 % of UK premise and the surround area , five year ahead of schedule , but of course we want people to benefit from this opportunity as soon as possible . we publish the UK wireless infrastructure strategy in April , set out a new ambition for a nationwide network of high - quality , stand - alone 5 g in all populated area by 2030 . it also set out new 6 g strategy , alongside an investment of up to £ 100 million in future telecom research . I will make sure the responsible Minister have hear that more need to be do in my hon . friend ' s constituency . this be vital to ensure that we see the economic growth we want in all part of the UK . I thank the Leader of the House for answer business question . MPs Staff : Employment Conditions I beg to move , that this House welcome the Second Report of the Speaker ' s Conference on the employment condition of Members ' staff ( HC 1714 of session 2022 – 23 ) , endorse its recommendation , recognise member ' responsibility as employer and the need to improve the work life of Members ' staff and accordingly call on the House of Commons Commission , IPSA and the political party to address and implement the recommendation from the Speaker ' s Conference . I move this motion on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) . he be at the funeral of Andrew Lee , who be a long - time conservative party agent and activist . he be hold in very high regard and have be an agent for many member of this House . he be one of those character we all know in our respective party . he be the life and soul of our party , and our democracy be build on the shoulder of such people . they often do not get any focus or plaudit , but they do a huge amount to facilitate democracy in this country . my hon . friend send his apology for not be here in person . the second report of the Speaker ' s Conference make a series of recommendation design to improve the work life of Members ' staff and provide well support to member as employer . the staff who work for we , as individual member of Parliament , play a huge and valuable role not only in support our work here in Westminster but in work tirelessly for our constituent , often in very stressful situation . the employment arrangement of Members ' staff be not a matter for the Government , but I welcome the conclusion that member of this House should continue to employ their own staff directly . it be for each Member to determine how good to carry out their role , and the current employment model provide an important element of flexibility to member to arrange their staff in the way that good suit each individual Member . I be supportive of what the Leader of the House be bring forward , but I must ask the follow question . many mp do not have the training as employer to answer many question and the staff development she be refer to be not natural to those of we who be not from that background . do she agree that great support to allow we to aid our staff development be imperative ? that will allow staff to feel that there be a route to take to great advancement . do she agree that funding for that should be provide centrally , so that staff do not feel they be be scrutinise by the public for take beneficial yet costly development course ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important point . he will know that the report make reference to ensure that proper support , training and service be provide to enable individual member to be the good employer they can be . my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne , whose name be also on this motion and who would be move it be he here , have also do a huge amount of work to ensure that member in future will be able to undertake training and get qualification , which be tremendously important . it will help they in their work here and enable they to continue their career when they leave this place . it be a good use of budget , to enable we to be the good member of Parliament that we can be . I also welcome the recommendation on provide further help and support to member and their staff in relation to employment matter . we need to ensure that all who work in Parliament be treat properly and fairly , and the package of measure announce in this report will deliver significant improvement . I particularly welcome the recommendation on improve mental health support for member and their staff , and I know that colleague in all part of the House will do the same . the report also make a series of recommendation about the role of the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority . IPSA be rightly independent from both the Government and Parliament , but I note the constructive engagement that have take place between the Speaker ' s Conference and IPSA , and the formal response publish by ipsa early this week , which set out how it aim to address some of the challenge identify by the Conference that fall within its area of responsibility . I be pleased to see progress on entitlement to sickness and parental leave for staff who move between member , and I look forward to see proposal on great support for member and staff in relation to constituency office in due course . I think the recommendation on continuity of service be important , have see the injustice in that area in respect of one of my member of staff . will the Leader of the House advise on whether those measure will apply retrospectively to exist staff ? I be propose this on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne , but I shall certainly make sure that I can get the precise detail to the hon . Gentleman . much would depend on what be in an individual ' s contract , as those will vary substantially depend on how they have work here . I will endeavour to get an answer to he on that . finally , I would like to endorse the report ' s conclusion about the valuable work of the Members ' service Team . it provide expert advice and support to colleague on a range of matter , but in particular it be a vital source of support on employment issue . the report rightly recognise the value of that support and highlight the importance of colleague ' engage with the team on any staffing issue that arise . I encourage any colleague with concern about an employment issue to contact the team at the early opportunity , and I welcome the report ' s recommendation to create a system of account manager to provide more direct support to member in this area . I particularly wish to thank Chris Sear , the director of the Members ' service Team , who be retire at the end of this month , after a long career in the House . the work that Chris have do to expand the service that provide assistance to member of this House have be hugely welcome . he be instrumental and very helpful in conduct the large member ' survey ever do , which take place this year and be about what kind of service and support people need . I want to place on record the gratitude that colleague have for he and his team . I hope these measure carry the support of Members and I commend the motion to the House . I call the shadow Deputy Leader of the House . this be an important debate about the culture and working condition in Parliament . as member of this House and as employer of staff , we should ensure that all staff feel value and respected , regardless of whether they be employ by member directly or by the House authority , in the Palace or in our constituency office . staff work across Parliament and the country be the backbone of our democracy and I give my personal thank for their dedication . I be sure that sentiment be echo across all Benches . the issue of pay , recognition and ensure a safe and respectful workplace be not new . they be long - stand issue on which we should always work hard , but it be important to recognise how much progress have be make . thank be due , in no small part , to the work of the parliamentary trade union and the House authority . we support the recommendation outline in the Speaker ' s Conference report , which be a welcome step in the right direction . crucially , there will be change for member ' staff concern continuity of service that will mean improve maternity and paternity right , enhance right regard sick pay and well redundancy arrangement . also , it be right that our hr function , support and advice be available to our staff as well as to member . that will enable staff to make informed choice about their employment . on balance , the report conclude that mp ' staff should remain under the direct employment of Members , complement by the new hr service . it will also be good to reclassify staff training and cost to support the wide participation in career development . together , these be good step in the right direction and should help improve the working culture of our House . the report ' s primary purpose be not to focus on the conduct of member and possible way of redress , but that issue be partially cover . I welcome the role of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme in deal with incident of poor behaviour by member . the process appear to be improve and timescale to complete case be say to be come down , but will the Leader of the House address the follow question : will recommendation concern hr and continuity of service be finalise by the general election ? be there plan to look far at the role of the icgs and its process ? be a future assessment point plan to monitor progress of the report ? as I have set out , we welcome the recommendation of the report and thank the Speaker and the member of the Speaker ' s Conference for their diligence . work together , we need to stick with this important task . finally , if approve by Members today , I hope the report ' s recommendation will be implement as soon as possible . I have not plan to speak in the debate , but as a member of the Speaker ' s Conference I think , at the last minute , it be important to come to the House to recognise the work of everyone involve in put together the report . as the Leader of the House of Commons , my right hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Penny Mordaunt ) , acknowledge , we rely on many of the Speaker ' s staff and other staff in the House of Commons to put the report together . the report be an important piece of work , which I welcome and hope will be approve today . while we be make progress , it be important that we continue to look at our organisation and way in which we can improve . the relationship between staff and employer be at the heart of what this place be about in deliver democracy and legislate for the benefit of the country . to change a culture take time , and to implement that change take time , but I think that this be an important and fundamental step forward . there have be progress , but there be always more to do . let we continue to do it . this be the second report . I put on the record , as a member of the Conference , my thank to the Members ' service Team and to Chris Sear , who be stalwart in support we . I , like many other I be sure , wish he well in his retirement . I call the SNP spokesperson . the SNP of course welcome any proposal that aim to ensure good employment practice , and in this case to ensure that staff be part of an inclusive , respectful and fair work environment . I pay tribute to the work of the Speaker ' s Conference and commend its recommendation . the high - profile incident that in part spark the report lay bare aspect of an inappropriate and unacceptable workplace culture that have run through this place , so with a renew urgency the report undertake to ensure that current working practice and condition of staff be fit for purpose , and that everyone who work in the parliamentary community feel support and have uninhibite access to that support . the contribution of mps ' staff to this place be enormous — we all know that — and all too often it go unseen . as part of its inquiry into culture , the report speak of a " collective failure " of the House to recognise and reward hard - work staff . Constituency staff in particular be single out as feel neglect and detach from Westminster , go without much of the support and additional service make available to those work on the estate . that be unacceptable and must , and I hope will , change . we welcome the report ' s recommendation to champion the work of MPs ' staff — that is , the work of those who enable everyone here to do their job . we wholeheartedly support the aim of the report to ensure parity of employment condition and a more rewarding work culture across the wide parliamentary community . we be also very much in favour of the propose expansion of the Members ' Services Team , which over such a short time have already come to provide an invaluable and highly professional service . have have to call on their help in the past , I know just how highly professional , helpful and sensitive to the issue they be . the recommendation of that team ' s evolution to a Members and Members ' staff service be commendable . as small employer , MPs should of course have access to well human resource support , but staff should also have access to guidance and advice independent of their employ MP . the report describe Members ' staff as " uniquely vulnerable " and the current Members ' Services Team be find to be under - resource . the report ' s plan to incorporate a new restorative practice for workplace dispute resolution be a welcome recommendation that would help to create uniform procedure for mps ' staff across this House . inadequate provision of employee support , employer guidance and qualified hr expert directly impact the experience of staff , so we be very supportive of the report ' s recommendation to improve that , and to improve on the great work of the current team . since the Members ' expense scandal that lead to its creation , the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority have rightfully provide the public with much great accountability and transparency on mps ' spending ; however , the report highlight some key challenge arise from IPSA ' s dual responsibility as a service regulator and a service provider . we support the report ' s recommendation for ipsa to make change to the scheme of business cost and expense , particularly on continuity of employment should staff move between member ’ office . statutory entitlement such as family leave and redundancy accrue while in the employ of one member should not evaporate due to a change of Member . it be important that we recognise the previous service of staff , and ensure the continuance of their employment condition . simply put , staff should not be treat as a cost move between account . I note that the report also recommend that the role of staff should be classify as essential support work , not merely include on the expense tab of a Member . that alone would go a long way to shift the perception of Members ' staff and the hard work that they do support both constituent and their employ MP . we also support the report ' s recommendation for a work group to be set up in collaboration with ipsa to review the provision of accommodation and to improve the work environment of staff member . the Speaker ' s Conference proposal be a welcome set of recommendation that will undeniably improve the culture and working condition of staff . across constituency office , research team , House and Members ' employee , we must ensure that this somewhat atypical structure have typical employment condition that be both predictable and fair . I certainly hope that member across the House will support these recommendation . have be a member of the Conference , I be delighted to be able to speak in this debate . the Conference have do some important work . we all know that this be a highly individual workplace , and that bring pressure , close and intense working , and a daily range of issue that be varied and challenging . we all know of personnel case where thing have go wrong , so it be a very good idea to create the Speaker ' s Conference , and all its member set off on our work know there be a problem to solve : that the work condition of our team , Members ' staff , could and must be improve . we have have a very good process , and I thank the House staff for all that they do . in particular , I thank they for their research and for draw interesting parallel between other Parliaments around the world . it be clear that some of these Parliaments have be on similar journey to ourselves . it be hard enough to organise thing on a national parliamentary basis , but to do so on an international parliamentary basis be particularly challenging . I think back to a joint meeting with representative from the Bundestag . the organisation be good : we have to fit in with multiple participant , co - ordinate between sitting and ensure good translation service . I know more about that meeting because I chair it , but there be many other meeting as well . the way in which House Officers carry out their background research be particularly helpful . for example , there be a visit to my constituency office — among a number of other such visit — to see what happen in the more distant part of the parliamentary estate . we have a visit from the Director of Members ' Services , Mr Chris Sear . when he join we in Harrogate , I make myself scarce by visit some constituent , so he could talk to the team and find out what they be do and all that they do to support people on a daily basis . throughout this process , I be aware that there have be some difficulty with gather information . there be plenty of anecdotal information , but problem have be hard to quantify . that difficulty with information mean that , to keep perspective and proportionality in all that we do , we have to constantly remind those involve that the vast majority of mp be good employer . there be a focus on three area : culture , community and behaviour . I will comment , if I may , on a couple of the more important decision . the first be to keep mps as employer of their team and as the decider of who be in their team . that be a very good thing . any change to that would have be difficult to implement and would , I be sure , have meet significant resistance . it also become clear very quickly that the way that support be provide or access by member ' staff be slightly haphazard , and that that could be improve . member ' staff can sometimes feel like second - class citizen — for example , when everyone else on the parliamentary estate be eligible for a flu jab , they be not . list Members ' staff as expense be demean ; they be not expense , they do valuable work . member ' staff could join parliamentary network . the transfer of employment right for staff when they change from work for one MP to another be critical . effectively , a member of staff have to start all over again when a Member retire or lose their seat , or when a constituency boundary be abolish . that member of staff may have work here for many year , but they would not have any employment right . clearly , that be wrong . as a result of the Conference , that will change , and that transfer of right be a very early decision . a further point be the Member Services Team , with a recommendation for significantly great hr support . basically , this be about move everything to a far more professional and standard working arrangement . one area where more be to be do concern those who be work away from the estate . it be hard to see what be go on in constituency office — there be 650 or so in diverse location around our nation — and I be sure that further work be need . the parliamentary authority should work together , alongside the political party , to identify early where risk may be develop — for example , staff turnover rate could be consider , or basic personnel admin , such as leave record . during the Conference ' s work , we spend some time discuss the structure of MPs ' office — possibly because I spend a large amount of time ensure that we do so . some be well than other , but how a colleague set up their office be their business , not mine . my hon . friend make a valuable point . both he and I be pretty experienced in the private sector in manage people ; not everyone have that experience , but I believe that the hr service available to member be excellent . will he consider in a future Conference make it a requirement that member undertake an hr exercise before they be allow to recruit staff , who will be pay for by the taxpayer ? my right hon . friend make an extremely interesting point . the challenge be that when a Member start here , the work start immediately , and the period between an election and the workload start be very brief . what she suggest could be practically difficult , but she be quite correct about possible lack of experience and how standard practice , although they may be difficult to deliver , be clearly the right thing to do . my right hon . friend make a very valuable point , which should be consider , because I do not think that this be the end of the process . member structure their officer differently . all my team have always be base in Harrogate and Knaresborough ; I have never have a team member base in Westminster . London mp have different need , probably base their team on the parliamentary estate . Most member will split their team . a result of our work will be the creation of a series of template to show new member what success might look like — not to impose , but to guide — and the provision of more training when they arrive and be set up their office . the absence of imposition be important , because we be all individual with different need and different background , so the political party have a role to play in the training of new mp , some of whom as my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) say , may have very limited experience , or even none , of be an employer . it be true that this be an individual workplace , but that have sometimes be use as an excuse for not look hard enough at what happen here , or as a get - out - of - jail card for poor practice . that be not acceptable . we have a set of recommendation ; we work to make sure that they be practical , and there be many of they . it be a great call by Mr Speaker to create the Conference . I again thank the House team for all their work to support we ; they do a very good job . I can confirm to colleague that , throughout , the Conference ' s work be do in a constructive , collegiate , cross - party way . our task now be to implement the finding of the Conference , but I do not think that this work , while positive , should be the only part of an initiative to improve standard in our public life and politic . since I become a Member of Parliament , eight current or former Labour mps have be give custodial sentence , two conservative , one liberal Democrat and one Scottish Nationalist . we have have by - election cause by poor behaviour by colleague from all part of the House , and there have be case of bad practice . a series of process have be introduce in good faith to address problem , but I think it have become apparent that the House need to do more work to both simplify and speed up the process . who be responsible for what ? what happen when people be be investigate , and how do that work align with the Recall of MPs Act 2015 ? it be also for the political party to recognise problem and act , though . it be easy to say , " the other lot be corrupt . " we hear that all the time . my point be that the problem be wide and deep . that be a broad issue than the Speaker ' s Conference deal with . I think our work in this Conference will improve a sizeable part of our political system . it should be support and implement as soon as possible . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) . I too take part in the Speaker ' s Conference , and I echo his thank to the Speaker for set up the conference , because as we get into our work , it become apparent to we that there be a great deal that need look into . I think we go wider than the initial envisage scope for the conference in many of the thing we deal with . it be an important step forward , particularly for our staff and the independence of the process , that staff can initiate the process if they feel that they be not be treat in the way they have every right to expect to be by their employer . when we set off , there be quite a strong feeling that we should be employ staff centrally , either under IPSA or some other body set up by the House . however , that idea be quickly dispense with as it become apparent that , because of the diversity in the way MPs approach do their job , they have to remain the employer and the people who select those who work in their office . there be a very personal relationship and there must be a great deal of trust between mps and the staff in their office . it be a particularly close relationship , at time deal with sensitive and political issue . it be impossible to have an arrangement whereby staff be not directly employ by and responsible to that Member of Parliament . however , that place a great deal of responsibility on we regard how we go about do our job and ensure that we be good employer . there be good recommendation in this report in relation to that . I think there will be a work group on MPs ' office ; it be an area where one size do not fit all , and mp must be allow flexibility in how they set up office in their constituency , and whether they do so at all . as have be say , some mps may just have their staff in Westminster , while other may be hybrid with both a constituency office and people here . that be where I be at the moment , although until covid , all my staff have be place in my constituency . I welcome the recommendation for further work relate to office . it will not surprise anyone who be on the Conference that the main thing I want to speak about be the dreaded ipsa . it be far from my view that the public money I spend on run my office should not be in the public domain . I stand by the fact that transparency be important in that regard and that I should be accountable for what I do with taxpayer ' money to represent my constituency . I have no problem with that whatsoever . however , IPSA be set up in haste and , be we start again today , it would not be create . there be no question about that . it can not perform the dual role of regulator and service provider , and it have not do so very well . I welcome the recommendation from the Conference that ipsa at least take a good look at itself and try to separate those role within its organisation . we need to scrutinise that very closely , because I do not think IPSA be capable of fulfil both the customer service and regulatory role . we go to the Scottish Parliament and look at the way it arrange its scrutiny of finance and provision of support to member of the Scottish Parliament . I have to say that the scottish approach impress I no end . the people there understand that they be there to assist the MSPs in their role , but none the less there be a set of rule that MSPs have to adhere to . we need to move to a system similar to that . I urge the Speaker or the Leader of the House to continue to scrutinise what IPSA do in response to this report , particularly in separate its customer service and regulatory role , because that be crucial to improve the way it deal with member of Parliament . I will just give one example : the dreaded IPSA web portal . when we ask question about it , IPSA staff admit that they have never even think about the fact that mps would need to use it when they set it up . you couldn ' t make it up . it be like a question and answer session from " the Thick of it " . it be unbelievable that IPSA could have set up a system that be design for mp to use and not consider how we might access and use it . the web portal be design for access by accountant , rather than member of Parliament . IPSA accept that it be not an easily usable or accessible system , but it have do very little to improve it — and it do require improvement . that it have take so long to happen underline the fact that IPSA have , for far too long , be run a " take it or leave it " service , because it have the regulatory power . it be time that be separate off . my one request in this debate be that we continue to scrutinise that area and that recommendation to make sure that it be implement properly . I thank all member who have contribute to this debate , and in particular all member who take part in the Speaker ' s Conference and facilitate its work . I think we have have a welcome and thoughtful debate . I will briefly answer four point raise . I be ask about the retrospective nature of some of the proposal in the report . provision on continuity of service be a matter for IPSA , and although it be unlikely that measure would be apply retrospectively , that will depend on individual circumstance . if people have question , IPSA be the body to go to for answer . a couple of hon . member raise the important matter of training . the Speaker ' s Conference look at various carrot and stick that could be deploy to ensure that people undergo training — stick such as not allow member access to publicly fund salary or insurance scheme . however , it decide that it be in no one ' s interest for somebody to be unable to access such thing , and that that be therefore probably not a stick that could be use . the House authority have give a great deal of thought to the question of member undergo training . when we arrive in this place , we be very busy , especially in the first few week , if we be new member . prospective parliamentary candidate be more likely to be keen to undergo training before they get here , so as we approach a general election , the House be consider an enhance package of training on hr responsibility , or security matter that member should be apprise of before they arrive here . the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) talk about IPSA , and there be ongoing work there . I know that all interested party will continue to scrutinise the work of ipsa and encourage its improvement . my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) raise a very important point about standard and the duty of care that we all have to one another , not just with regard to our own behaviour , but when we see behaviour from other member , or from member of staff , that fall short of what should be expect in this place . this be a particularly complicated issue for we here . member of the public might scratch their head and wonder why , but the fact be that we be not one organisation ; we be about 700 organisation of individual office and employer . we have our political party and our Whip structure , and we also have our responsibility under the ministerial code . that be a very good reason why the Standards Committee be look at the whole landscape of standard . for my money , I think the answer lie in our all have a clear understanding of our duty of care to one another . no complicated rulebook can ever operate well without an understanding and buy - in from all party about what a good duty of care to one another look like . finally , on behalf of we all , may I thank all our staff for the tremendous work they do , often in very stressful situation ? for example , many office do incredible work during Op Pitting , which I know be traumatic for a lot of parliamentary staff , who sometimes have to make life and death decision on behalf of other . I thank again the Speaker ' s Conference . I hope that all member will support the motion , and I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . COP28 I beg to move , that this House have consider COP28 . I be glad to come to the House today to discuss this important subject . we discuss COP28 at a recent reception host by the all - party parliamentary group for climate change last month , and also at a recent meeting of the Environmental Audit Committee . I welcome the interest of colleague from across the Chamber . I note that the all - party parliamentary group on the environment have just release its report on the subject , include nine recommend priority for COP28 . that , too , be a welcome contribution to the debate . the upcoming conference of the party , host by the United Arab Emirates , come at a really important moment in tackle the climate crisis . amid record temperature and emission , the first comprehensive stocktake of progress against the Paris agreement at COP28 will show that the world be badly off track . we have make significant progress through the Paris agreement , with temperature projection shift from a 4 ° increase before Paris to an increase of between 2 . 4 ° and 2 . 7 ° after Glasgow , thank to the nationally determined contribution that country have say they will make . but we know that be not enough . in Glasgow , we cement the goal of limit global temperature increase to no more than 1 . 5 ° and make that our north star , and that have be carry forward by the UAE presidency . the late science , and the impact that we see even at 1 . 1 ° , show we why that be so important . a top priority for the UK be to leave COP28 with a clear road map to keep a ceiling of 1 . 5 ° in reach . the UK head to COP28 with a record at home and internationally that be second to none . the Prime Minister recently reaffirm our commitment to net zero and set out a new approach to get there . this will make it easy for business , supply chain and household to adapt to the new normal . we will build on our previous success and continue to lead . I be not sure that we be always as good as we should be at share this story , of which the nation can be proud . at home , we have decarbonise more than any major economy on this planet , cut our emission by 48 % since 1990 . not only have we decarbonise fast than any major economy on the planet to date , but we have the most ambitious plan and the most ambitious nationally determine contribution for 2030 of any major economy . our commitment be to a 68 % reduction by 2030 . by comparison , the EU , which have be a genuine force for good in this space , have an NDC of 55 % by 2030 , although it hope and expect to exceed that . how have we do that ? our inheritance be not a great one . as recently as 2012 , nearly 40 % of our electricity come from coal . next year , thank to the policy of this Government , it will be zero . we inherit in 2010 an electricity system in which , almost unbelievably , less than 7 % of our generation come from renewable . in the first quarter of this year , it be nearly 48 % . we have transform our renewable base . we have eliminate coal . I be aware of no country anywhere that have do more and go far , fast , but lead in that way be not enough for we , as a country that produce less than 1 % of global emission , right though it be that we should do so . we also have to lead the global conversation , and that be exactly what we do at COP26 . when we take on the presidency of COP26 , 30 % of global GDP be cover by net zero pledge . when we hand on to Egypt , it be over 90 % , and I be proud to say that this country lead that conversation . not only be we lead , but the rest of the world be accept the need to act , even if nationally determined contribution and national plan do not yet match what be need to meet the net zero challenge , but I be pleased to say that ours do . we have ambitious target , and we will deliver on they . as I say , we have to make sure that the other 99 % of global emission start to follow the same trajectory , so our offer and engagement will be all about encourage the rest of the world to join the UK on a net zero pathway . two year on from Glasgow , the need to accelerate action be more urgent than ever . the world need to decarbonise more than five time fast than we do in the last two decade . the country in the world that have cut its emission more than any major economy , namely the UK , have reduce they by 48 % in 31 year , but accord to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , the scientific body that advise we on this , the world need to cut its emission by 43 % by 2030 from a 2019 baseline to keep net zero alive . that show we the challenge . we need to be peak globally by 2025 . the late United Nations framework convention on climate change nationally determine contribution synthesis report show that emission be set to be 2 % below the 2019 level by 2030 if all the commitment make so far be meet — 2 % , when the science say that we need a 43 % reduction . the late " State of Climate Action " report from the World Resources Institute carry a similarly stark message : we need to accelerate the transition rapidly . only one of its 42 indicator for the progress need by 2030 be on track . we also have to be up front about the fact that we face significant challenge come into this COP : geopolitical tension , conflict and a challenging macroeconomic context in which government be battle inflation and debt . G20 relation be strained , as I witness at first hand when I go to the Climate Ministers G20 meeting in Chennai . some country be seek to stoke division , to deflect from their own responsibility to take action . at the same time , record temperature and widespread climate impact be increase the need to act on adaptation , loss and damage , as well as reduce emission . we need broad - base progress across all pillar of the Paris agreement at COP28 . Finance will be a critical part of the transition . develop economy need to deliver on their promise to mobilise $ 100 billion in climate finance for develop country . we all know that we be due to deliver this in 2020 and , collectively , we fall behind . in Glasgow , we set a course correction to meet the goal by 2023 . I be pleased that today ' s report from the OECD show that we be ahead of the projection we set out in Glasgow . we deliver $ 89 . 6 billion in 2021 , and the OECD have indicate that it be likely — not definite , but likely — that the $ 100 billion goal be in fact meet in 2022 . delivery of that commitment be something that the UK have champion , and I be pleased to say that we recently make our big ever climate finance commitment through our $ 2 billion contribution to the green climate fund . there be also an urgent need to realign the financial system so that it be fit to address the challenge we face today , include climate and development . the science be unequivocally clear that urgent action be need . the vital work do by the IPCC and other scientist make clear that the risk and impact we face will grow significantly as temperature increase , include the risk of breach tipping point , which will accelerate that negative trend . at COP28 , we want to see progress across five area , the first of which be commitment to keep 1 . 5 ° alive . come out of the global stocktake , we need renew consensus and increase ambition to keep 1 . 5 ° within reach . we also need a clear , forward - look road map with a commitment to peak global emission by 2025 ; global target for key sector , particularly those that be hard to decarbonise ; and commitment to action , include through initiative such as the breakthrough agenda and in other key area such as forest , the phasing out of hydrofluorocarbon and clear guidance for the next round of NDCs , which will be a central feature of the Bel é m COP in the Amazon in two year ' time . the second area be clear progress towards a clean energy future , include a commitment to triple global renewable energy deployment and double energy efficiency by 2030 . that sit alongside a clear commitment on phase out unabated fossil fuel — our position on that issue be unchanged since the G7 commitment that the UK help to deliver early this year — and to phase out coal power , build on cop26 outcome . the third area be reform of the international financial institution to unlock trillion for global challenge include development and climate action , and delivery of our exist commitment , alongside $ 100 billion per year in climate finance for develop economy . as I have mention previously , the OECD ' s late report on 2021 figure show that develop country be on track to meet that goal . the fourth area be improve adaptation to climate change , deliver on our Glasgow commitment to double adaptation finance by 2025 , and establish an effective loss and damage fund to support country that be particularly vulnerable to the adverse effect of climate change . we be pleased that the transitional committee that be set up to reach agreement on what that loss and damage fund should look like have put forward a recommendation to COP28 . the UK be instrumental in secure that recommendation , and we hope it will be agree by all party at COP28 . we will continue to advocate for the priority of the most vulnerable : we hold a third climate and development ministerial at the pre - cop event last month in Abu Dhabi , which I co - chair , to do just that . the fifth area be that we want real progress towards protect , restore and sustainably manage nature — for example , by make concrete progress on the historic agreement we land to halt and reverse deforestation by 2030 . action to deliver net zero be not just a matter of do the right thing , or of avoid harm : it be crucial to our security and prosperity here in the UK , both now and in the future . the global net zero transition could be worth £ 1 trillion to UK business between 2021 and 2030 . UK business be in the vanguard of recognise the opportunity that spring from net zero : over two third of FTSE 100 company and thousand of small business have pledge to reduce their emission in line with the 1 . 5 ° target under the race to Zero campaign . over half of the signatory to that campaign be from the UK . net zero be already an engine for growth and revitalisation of formerly deindustrialise area in the UK . we be a leader across a number of area : we have the world ' s five large offshore wind farm project and the world ' s no . 1 rank green finance centre , and we be lead the way in develop an approach to carbon capture and storage , to name a few example . action on climate and nature be also crucial for our energy security and to reduce exposure to future global shock , such as those cause by Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . the North sea ' s transition to a clean energy powerhouse with 50gw of offshore wind by 2030 will reduce exposure to volatile international energy market and be an engine for clean energy export . action on adaptation and nature be crucial in a world where food security be increasingly under threat . however , we need everyone with we on this journey . the opportunity be huge : in 2023 , we will see a record $ 1 . 8 trillion invest in clean energy alone . accord to the International Energy Agency , electric vehicle be on track to account for two third of new car sale globally by 2030 ; the transition to clean energy and electric vehicle be take off , and it will spread to other sector quickly . at COP28 , we need to show progress on deliver the historic agreement we land in Glasgow . we must use UK expertise to scale green finance , support other to accelerate the transition in key sector of the global economy , and set a clear pathway to 1 . 5 ° . at this point , I be happy to hear from other member . Simon Stiell , the UN climate executive secretary , say at COP27 that we need " everybody , everywhere in the world , every single day , do everything they possibly can to address the climate crisis . " that be the scale of the challenge ahead of we , and the global stocktake synthesis report have underline what be at stake . we be fall short on mitigation , adaptation and finance . current ncd be 20 to 24 gigatonne of carbon dioxide equivalent short of what be need to limit warming to 1 . 5 ° . the conclusion be stark : there be a rapidly close window of opportunity to secure a liveable and sustainable future for all . indeed , in meeting I have have recently with climate scientist , they have warn that although they want to cling to the hope of keep 1 . 5 ° alive , they fear we be now in the territory of 2 ° . at 2 ° , we lose our coral reef , for example ; that be not a solution that we should be happy to live with . echo Simon Stiell , the global stocktake report state that " much more action , on all front and by all actor , be need now " . one would not know it from the speech that the Minister have just make , but we do not have a Government who be take the action on all front that be need now : we have a Government who be not just stall , but take we backwards . I think it be quite a cheek for the Minister to cite electric vehicle , give that the Government have just row back from the 2030 ban on the sale of new internal combustion engine vehicle . the motor manufacturing sector , include the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders and the Ford motor company , be quite happy with that 2030 date . the only reason that date be move be that in the wake of the Uxbridge by - election , the Prime Minister want to play party politic with net zero . the Minister be quite audacious at time : he say that some country be seek to stoke division at COP , but that be exactly what his Government have be do in recent week on net zero . the rest of the European Union have set the deadline of 2035 . it be right that the United Kingdom Government set the ambition for 2030 , but we recognise that thing be change : we have have covid , and there be still a need to roll out infrastructure . I think the hon . Lady be be ungenerous , since we will now be in line with the rest of the European Union , and we have a high take - up of EVs than many other country . in all the conversation I have with business , they say that they want certainty and a strategic sense of direction ; they want to know where they be go , so we should not move the goalpost . there be no reason to row back from that target , and as I have say , the motor industry itself have express concern . that industry need to develop a market in new vehicle now , so that in a few year ' time , we will have the affordable second - hand market that we need so that people can afford to make the transition . the right hon . Lady be absolutely right that the infrastructure be not there , but that be a challenge that we should rise to , get a comprehensive network of public sector charging point , grid connection and so on . she will have hear that from Labour at its recent party conference . let I turn to domestic progress . again , to listen to the Minister , one would think that everything be go swimmingly . the Climate Change Committee have assess that the UK be unlikely to meet its NDC to reduce emission by 68 % between 1990 and 2030 . the Government ' s own carbon budget delivery plan concede that Ministers only have plan for 92 % of our NDC , but they have say that they be confident about deliver those emission saving — that be something we often hear from the Minister , without any actual detail about how we will get there . in fact , it have be assess that the Government have credible plan for only 28 % of the require emission reduction . there be a lot of work to be do . the Climate Change Committee assess the Government ' s policy in October with and without the Prime Minister ' s climate climbdown , and find a 20 % increase in the proportion of the NDC pathway cover by " insufficient plan " have take into account the Prime Minister ' s intervention . it say that the " widespread uncertainty for consumer and supply chain " , be more difficult to quantify , but , as I have say , at all the meeting I have have , people be say that this have absolutely knock they off course . there be a huge amount of enthusiasm for go down the path to net zero and I be tell that there be a lot of private sector finance ready to invest , but they need a stable economic climate , not a Prime Minister who be u - turn just when action be need . follow the disastrous contract for difference auction , the proportion of the electricity supply pathway with significant risk increase by over 5 , 000 % . the refusal to help renter contribute to a fivefold increase in insufficient plan for building . when the Government ' s policy be , as the Climate Change Committee find , " make net Zero considerably hard to achieve " and drive up energy bill , how can Ministers go to COP try to boast about how well thing be go in the UK ? I do hope for action before COP . we have the autumn statement next week , and we be expect some plan — I think the Chancellor promise in the spring that he would bring they forward — in response to the Inflation Reduction Act and the measure we then see in the EU . I hope that we do get something on that front to at least reassure business that the Government still have net zero in their sight and see it as an important part of a future industrial strategy for we . the UK use to be at the forefront of global climate action , and again the Minister be be a bit cheeky when talk about the progress that have be make since 2010 . I think he enter Parliament when I do in 2005 . be that right ? indicate assent . the Minister may recall be on the Green Benches in 2008 when the Labour Government introduce the world ' s first Climate Change Act , which be then adopt by more than 100 country around the world . it be groundbreake . if the hon . Lady want to have a history lesson — and we do , indeed , come in together — she will remember that it be David Cameron , as the leader of the Conservatives , who be the first leader of a major party in this country to call for a climate Act . I think the Liberal Democrats leader follow suit a few hour later , and the Labour Government then eventually do so . I serve on the Joint Committee , chair by the brilliant David Puttnam , that put this into place , so I will not take any lecture from she . it be the Conservatives who lead the charge to get that go — the first major party to support it — and I be pleased to see it put on the statute book . we be of course the first major economy in the world , and the first Government , to legislate for net zero overall . it be a Labour Climate Change Act bring in by the now shadow Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) . I can see why the Minister may be desperate to try to claim credit for it , because the Government have so little else that they can claim credit for , but it be a Labour Act introduce by a Labour Government . it be because that be enact that we have see so much progress , and as I have say , it be take as a model for many other country to follow . however , we be now set entirely the wrong example to other country by scale back on our net zero ambition and last year the Prime Minister have to be force to attend COP . will the hon . Lady give way ? the Minister will have an opportunity to respond in his wind - up at the end , but I suppose I will give way once more . this be a really important topic , and it be important that we get our language right . the Government have not scale back our net zero ambition for either our NDC in 2030 or net zero by 2050 . the hon . Lady can make lot of point , partisan or otherwise , but it would be great if she acknowledge that this country have , under this Conservative Government , cut emission by more than any other major economy on earth and have the most ambitious plan for 2030 . the Minister will also know that the Government have to be take to court , because it be one thing declare target and ambition , but unless they have the strategy — [ interruption . ] the Government be take to court , and that be why they have to produce the delivery plan early this year . the Climate Change Committee , which by his account be all his idea because it be all his idea to introduce the Climate Change Act , have say that the Government be not on track to meet their ambition . so the Minister can not just rely on grandiose boast about where he want to get we to if he do have not have a plan to get we there , and it be very clear that he do not have a plan to get we there . the Minister say that we represent only 1 % of global emission , which be true , but the NDC emission gap be approximately the total combine annual emission from the top three emit country . yes , they have responsibility , but this do need everybody everywhere to play their part . I do not think we would want to try to suggest that we be insignificant in the big global picture because we represent only 1 % of the total population . I will move on specifically to the COP agenda and what we hope to see . will the UK be call for the phase - out of unabated fossil fuel , and do the Minister agree with the global stocktake report — [ interruption . ] I be just about to come to that . I know the Minister mention it , but do he agree with the global stocktake report that fossil fuel subsidy be stifle cost - effective low - carbon alternative ? the global stocktake report state that " lifetime emission from exist and planned fossil fuel infrastructure will exceed estimate for keeping … 1 . 5 ° C within reach " . my point be that , if the UK will be call for the phase - out of unabated fossil fuel , how do he think go to COP when the Government have just announce the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill in the King ' s Speech will sit when he try to lecture other country on move away from fossil fuel ? the global stocktake report be clear that CO2 removal have a role , but be " not a substitute for deep emission reduction . " it state : " a rapid reduction of the world economy ' s reliance on fossil fuel towards clean energy be central for reach global net zero " . that sound to I like an endorsement of Labour ' s clean energy mission for 2030 . unlike the Government ' s short - term approach , this will increase our energy security , create good job and reduce energy bill — unlike , as the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero admit the other day , the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill — and it will mean that the UK be lead the world in tackle the climate crisis . the Minister mention nature - base solution , and I be very pleased to hear that , but can he say a bit more about what global action the Government will be support with sustainable land management — I understand that that will be on the agenda at COP in a way that it have not be in the past — as well as terrestrial and ocean carbon sequestration ? what discussion be there likely to be on the role of set up credible international carbon market ? to give one example , we know that wetland have huge potential , but we be still wait to hear about the saltmarsh code — the former Secretary of State for Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , may have something to say about that — and whether we can add saltmarshe to the greenhouse gas inventory . with the UK ' s lead position as a world financial centre , we be ideally place to be play a role in create these market both on the nature side and on the carbon side . it be estimate that tree loss last year be 2 . 1 % high than the maximum level . will the Minister update we on that ? he mention halt and reverse deforestation by 2030 , and on the international side that be very much about stamp out link to deforestation in our supply chain . could he give an update on how that be go , because as I understand it , it be not go well ? those issue be all highlight in the global stocktake . the build environment and transport be also on the COP agenda , and it would be helpful if the Minister could tell we a little more about the Government ' s priority for the talk . he mention the loss and damage fund , and the work of the transitional committee . it would be interesting to know more about what conversation he have have with climate - vulnerable country , and the small island develop state in particular , because it be one thing to set up these financial arrangement , but in the past the small a country , the few resource it have , and it find it very difficult to access the finance that be out there . the Minister also mention the need to reform international financial institution , which be welcome . I do not know whether he intend to reveal much about his actual agenda at COP before he go — and it would be useful to know who else be go with he — but one question that have be ask of I be whether he will be attend the ministerial event on methane on 4 December . I think it be really important that we start address methane in connection both with the fossil fuel sector and with agriculture and waste . I hope that will be a priority for he . to conclude , the UN have previously warn that the world be on course for a catastrophic 2 . 8 ° c of warming , in part because promise make at COP26 and COP27 have not be fulfil . we be run out of last chance , but we can still avert the very bad of it , because we have the knowledge and tool to do so ; it be just the willpower that be lack at the moment . the UK under Labour will , as call for in the global stocktake , transform our energy system with a plan to double onshore wind , treble solar , and quadruple offshore wind . our warm home plan will see 90 million cold and draughty home bring up to standard , and labour ' s answer to the Inflation Reduction Act will restore Britain ' s international leadership and create job across the country . our proposal for a clean power alliance will lead ambitious country and support the most vulnerable . a net zero target should not lead to complacency . there be so much more that the UK can and must do , not only to reduce emission but to deliver energy security , reduce energy bill , and enable british industry to thrive over the long term . that be the vision we need to see at COP . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate . cop28 will be vital , recognise the global stocktake that will be happen , and I commend the Government on the progress they have make , while also recognise , not just in this country but around the world , the necessity of a just transition . I pay tribute to the Prime Minister , who in his speech a couple of month ago recognise that we have already be do so well on aspect of the carbon budget . he also recognise some of the impact that be about to unfold , particularly in rural community like mine in Suffolk Coastal , include a transition away from oil boiler — something that we all want . he be allow more time for that to happen , rather than the sudden impact that such measure could have have on many people in my constituency and across the country . his speech be also about aspect of housing and the energy performance certificate . undoubtedly , in many rural part of the country , try to achieve EPC standard C be difficult , because there be pretty old housing — not just from 20 or 30 year ago , but considerably old . try to make that change mean that a lot of building be at risk of be remove from the private rental sector , which would not be good in term of housing people in our rural community . I also commend the Prime Minister on say , in a key part of his speech at COP27 in Sharm El - Sheikh last year , that there be no solution to climate change without protect and restore nature . that be 100 % right . again , the United Kingdom should be proud of how it have put nature , and nature - base solution , at the heart of ensure that we achieve net zero around the world . in her 1988 speech , my political heroine Margaret Thatcher highlight the risk to the world of climate change . she be pivotal in ensure that the Montreal protocol , and its subsequent amendment , be an innovative way — indeed , the most successful agreement ever reach — to try to tackle climate change . the Kigali amendment to the Montreal protocol be ratify by this Parliament in 2017 , and I be pleased to be the DEFRA Minister who lead that ratification . the critical outcome of that be to try to prevent 0 . 5 ° c of warming , which will help . indeed , that be the single big contribution that will be make towards keep the goal of 1 . 5 ° alive . this be about how we tackle the issue in a variety of way , in particular how we use hydrofluorocarbon — in the past it be chlorofluorocarbon — and think about the global warming power of the different chemical we use . in my constituency , GAH Transport have be in operation for 30 year . it be a small business , but it be really make an impact with the amount of research and innovation that it be undertake to try to use more of the sort of chemical that reduce global warming potential . that will be an important part of the innovation we need not just in this country but around the world . I be delighted that the UK Government be fund , through international climate finance and other aspect of official development assistance , important progress in India and Rwanda . that be important progress in the cool challenge that those country face , not only when heating or cool home , but also — particularly in Rwanda , work with other african nation nearby — when think about the impact on agriculture , and how we can try to reduce food waste . we be support that important innovation to ensure that we keep the goal of 1 . 5 ° alive . I have one request for the Minister . the United Arab Emirates , which be take up the COP28 presidency , have not ratify the Kigali amendment , and I encourage he to raise that with the COP28 President and Ministers for that country to see whether they can do that . we need leadership across the world . the amendment be already in effect because a sufficient number of country have sign , but it would show further leadership from the UAE to undertake that important ratification . I admit that I be a bit of a veteran of cop . I go to COP23 in Bonn in 2017 , and to COP24 in Katowice . we have the magnificent COP26 in Glasgow , with our own president , my right hon . friend the Member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) . in many way that be a game changer for nature , and it be strengthen last year at COP27 in Sharm El - Sheikh . go back to Bonn , nature be really the Cinderella of it all . the ocean — we be already see the change , and the impact of climate change ; we be start to see acidification . although the sea be still alkaline , they be get more acidic , and it be important to recognise that power and how nature have help we . ocean have effectively be absorb so much carbon that the impact — what that be do to nature — be now start to become clear . the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) mention the bleaching of coral reef and the potential loss of those reef , and it be important that nature go hand in hand with climate strategy . I be delighted that the UK Government have make that a key part of what we do . on other aspect of nature , the Minister and I have attend a variety of international meeting . most recently we be together in India for the G20 , and I be with the former Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) , in Japan at the G7 . it have be an important part of that journey that we work globally with partner . to some extent , that have be the secret of what make the Montreal protocol work so well . funding be give to try to help country around the world with that innovation and transition . some of those thing be not straightforward . for example , right beneath we we have the tube system , and the way that some of these chemical or gas be use in the past have be a key part of some of our own infrastructure . we need to change away from that , in particular by not use sulphur hexafluoride any more , or by reduce it and phase it down as far as we can . it be important that we share our understanding and technology , and that be why what I say about India and Rwanda be an important part of make that happen . think a little more broadly , I will briefly touch on my time at the Department for Work and Pensions . I do so because I know that a lot of these measure will need financing . we make an important decision to make reporting to the Task Force on Climate - relate Financial Disclosures mandatory when it come to pension . if we think about the trillion of pound of asset that be in global business and be invest , it make sense for business to think ahead about the impact of climate change , and for investor to do so as well . that do not mean that thing will happen overnight . business must be conscious of what the impact of climate change will be , and frankly they need to start finance to try to mitigate that impact or adapt towards it . as a slight aside , I welcome the Taskforce on nature - relate Financial Disclosures , and I hope I can persuade the Secretary of State for the Department for Work and Pensions to adopt that in future as well . in order to ensure that we achieve net zero by 2050 , we do have to think of the planet — of course we do — and we have to think of people . a lot of this be quite an uncomfortable transition and a change to a way of life , and we must make it as straightforward as possible . I also know that we can be prosperous as a consequence of these change , whether that be through green job in the UK , or ensure that instead of spend lot of money on have to adapt , mitigate or deal with crisis in different part of the world , we build such measure into our systematic way of grow globally in term of our prosperity . that be why it be so important that the £ 11 . 5 billion of international climate finance be still a key part of the Government ' s strategy . my constituency contain a nuclear power station , Sizewell B . it be home to Sizewell A , which be now be decommission , and planning consent have be give for Sizewell C . it really matter for our energy supply that we have a mix . there be also a lot of offshore wind in the southern North sea . the impact on the onshore infrastructure require to bring that into our network be a source of much concern in Suffolk , and I know that my right hon . friend the Minister be well aware of that . I will not dwell on that — I intend to bring it up another time — but to take the national and global position , we need to work out how we will make that transition fair , think of the impact on community and on nature . I know that my right hon . friend be wise about those matter . the shadow Minister refer to the greenhouse gas inventory . I agree that we should look to bring saltmarsh , woodland and so on into the inventory . I be delighted that DEFRA ' s chief scientific adviser , Dr Gideon Henderson , be undertake that work . I wish he well and hope he will be able to work at pace . I will shortly talk about mangrove — my favourite , they be magic and it would not be a speech from I if I do not talk about they — and we have to recognise that saltmarsh be our equivalent of mangrove . in my time previously in DEFRA and in the past year , I try but do not quite get there — I really need the Marine Management Organisation to work much more collaboratively with Natural England and the Environment Agency to make it more straightforward to plant saltmarsh . there have be too many complication with licensing in different way , and it be very frustrating . like mangrove , saltmarsh be multipurpose . it can sequester carbon , it can be a good flood defence , and it be a brilliant habitat for many of the migratory wade bird that come to our shore . I be very keen that we make good progress on make that happen . on emission , I want to thank Robert Caudwell who do a report for DEFRA on lowland peat and the impact of farming and agriculture . I write the foreword to the Government ' s response early this year and welcome the investment towards tackle the emission , because it be a significant amount . it be of course important that we have food security , but we also need to tackle emission from agriculture in a measured way . wide work on the restoration of peatland have be a passion of mine for several year . my right hon . friend mention deforestation , which be one of the key element of cop26 in the leader ' pledge , various declaration and the coalition of ambition . I be know for want to make sure we turn ambition into action , and I know that the House will share that thought . I be , therefore , delight that we be able to contribute to the Amazon Fund , which will help Brazil in particular . that be announce by the Prime Minister early this year . progress be be make on get the forest risk commodity legislation ready , and I hope it will be lay before the House before too long . it be important that as we make these change we do our good to reduce deforestation and our demand through supply chain , and I commend the company that have already make those change . there be more to do , and I hope more will be do very shortly . nature - base solution can be symbiotic and provide much more value for money in achieve what we want to achieve . it have not always be the case that action take to reduce carbon have be beneficial to the environment . that be not a criticism . the dash for diesel have other impact , especially with particulate matter 2 . 5 . People do not know at the time , but we should recognise now that the dash for diesel have an impact on other aspect of the environment and it be important that we consider both as we make further change . I have a particular passion for mangrove . I try to brand they " blue forest " to make they a bit more accessible around the world , but they be magical . they be magic because , bang for buck , they be well at carbon sequestration than the Amazon forest . they have be in place for a long time , but they be also under threat , because they make brilliant wood for build home and boat . I commend country such as Mozambique that have put in national protection . we should think about how much of the Commonwealth have mangrove , because at the moment they do not get reward for the protection they have put in place . community do understand ; it be not just about carbon . what be magic about mangrove be that they provide a brilliant place to develop aquaculture . the fishing industry locally can be sustainable because of the opportunity for the growth of fish stock and protection from other predator , just by the nature of the mangrove . they also have an impact on coastal erosion and protection . Haiti in the Caribbean suffer a devastating hurricane some year ago , but , while the area with mangrove be still damage , they be the quick to recover . that be why I be on a mission , and will continue to be so as long as I have breath , to champion mangrove whether in this House or as I regularly do in ministerial meeting around the world . the magic of mangrove need to be recognise more , and that be why I be pleased that for COP28 the UAE make a commitment to plant more mangrove . my right hon . friend the Minister and I go different way after the G20 in Chennai , and I have the privilege of visit the second large mangrove forest in the world at Pichavaram , and it be exceptionally special . I love that the community also recognise how special the forest be and how important it be to protect it . I be conscious that other part of the world have have a slash and burn approach in the past to generate other aspect of the economy , but now government and community have recognise the importance of stop deforestation , as my right hon . friend mention . on the history of climate change , I give credit to the Labour Government who introduce the Climate Act 2008 , and we take a generally cross - party approach to it . David Cameron introduce " vote blue , go green " and be really behind the change . the Act legislate for an 80 % reduction by 2050 , and it be actually my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , when she be Prime Minister , who make the change to a 100 % reduction by law . those legal target matter . we should also recognise that it be Boris Johnson who really make a difference at COP26 . he bring nature and the world together to make sure that we would keep up the momentum . there be no doubt in my mind that covid be a bit of a body - check to progress on many environmental matter , but it be important that we keep accelerate , and I wish my right hon . friend the Minister well at COP28 . I know that several Ministers be go , include Lord Benyon from DEFRA and my successor as the Secretary of State . it matter that we be there . we need to bring other with we , but they will not come with we if we just attack what they do . just last week , I be in Beijing where I meet Minister Huang , the president of the Committee on Biological Diversity that lead to the immense global biodiversity framework agree last December in Montreal . we have to work with China and with other country — I think in particular of Minister Yadav in India . I be able to explain what I think be the Prime Minister ' s just transition , but we certainly can not reduce our ambition ; we have to work with other country , and challenge they but bring they along , because it matter that everybody make their commitment . it do not matter if the United Kingdom or any other country be the first to reach net zero — what matter be when the last country hit net zero . we need to ensure that as many country as possible achieve that by 2050 , if not before , and I wish my right hon . friend the Minister well in the negotiation . I know there be ambition in our thinking about some of the different approach that need to be take . I hope that he will also be key to the Commonwealth play its part . at the UN General Assembly , I be delighted to chair the first meeting of Commonwealth Ministers for environment and climate , and there be certainly ambition there . let we turn that into action . I have great confidence in my right hon . friend make that happen . I call the SNP spokesperson . I will start with a short reality check . climate scientist be forecast with near certainty that 2023 will set a new record as the hot year . October global temperature soar 1 . 7 ° C above the late - 1800 average for that month . accord to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , September 2023 surpass the average July temperature from 2001 to 2010 . those record be not merely be break but be shatter . heatwave , drought and flood have result in significant human suffering , claim thousand of life , disrupt livelihood and displace score of people . the burden of these climactic shift fall disproportionately on those region and community that have contribute least to the crisis . East Africa , a region with minimal contribution to global carbon emission , have face devastating drought and famine , with estimate early this year suggest that two life be be lose every minute . meanwhile , low - lie nation such as Tuvalu face the real threat of extinction in the come decade be create digital back - up of their entire existence and culture , complete with ancestral knowledge and value system . as we approach COP28 , it be therefore encouraging — although long overdue — that the conference will focus more on frontline community , and especially those in least develop country and small island . that emphasis must translate into tangible financial support . that be an area where Scotland have set a precedent as the first country in the global north to commit fund to climate loss and damage , pledge £ 2 million at COP26 . last year , the Scottish Government allocate an additional £ 5 million to non - economic loss and damage , support initiative preserve the heritage of affected community . those sum be , of course , small compare with what be require globally . finance provide by rich country to help the poor deal with climate change remain woefully inadequate . however , the Scottish Government ' s action have encourage other to follow , with about $ 300 million thought to have be pledge globally to address loss and damage . at COP27 , a landmark agreement be reach to establish a dedicated fund aim explicitly at support vulnerable nation and community who be grapple with the irreversible effect of climate change . that action must be accelerate , and the finance offer must be additional to that already available for mitigation and adaptation — and it must be in the form of grant not loan . support for adaptation initiative be simply inadequate . country of the global north not only bear a substantial responsibility for the destructive consequence of climate change through our emission but have benefit from the competitive advantage that the early adoption of fossil fuel and industrialisation provide . therefore , surely wealthy nation have a moral obligation to recognise that historical responsibility and lead by example . First Minister Humza Yousaf and Cabinet Secretary for Net Zero and Just Transition M à iri McAllan , who will represent Scotland at the conference , will make that case to delegate . action to address loss and damage get to the heart of what we mean by climate justice . it be a principle that be equally important at home as it be globally . the Scottish Government be commit to end our reliance on fossil fuel in a way that be fair and leave no one behind . that be exemplify by the just transition fund : the Scottish Government ' s 10 - year , £ 500 million investment to support project in the north - east and Moray as those region transition to net zero . the principle of a just transition be also enshrine in the Climate Change ( Scotland ) Act 2019 , emphasise the creation of green , sustainable job and address economic inequality . the action need to reach net zero by 2045 will transform all sector of our economy and society , and will require rapid structural change . in Scotland , and indeed throughout the UK , we have see how unplanned structural change in the past have leave intergenerational scarring and deprivation , most notably in our former coalmining community . our transition to net zero must be manage differently . in October alone , we have experience two extreme rainfall event , include Storm Babet , which disrupt transport , destroy infrastructure and crop , lead to the evacuation of community , and tragically take life in Scotland and across the UK . the health of our environment , economy and society be interlink with how well we mitigate climate change and adapt to its impact . that be why the Scottish Government be make an extra £ 150 million available in this parliamentary term on top of £ 42 million annually for flood risk management , and £ 12 million on coastal adaptation . the Scottish Government ' s climate change plan update outline nearly 150 policy , set a pathway to meet our ambitious emission target by 2032 , include a 75 % reduction by 2030 . we have reach significant milestone . in 2020 , almost 100 % of Scotland ' s gross electricity consumption in Scotland be generate from renewable source . although the Scottish Government have meet target and miss other , at the last count the Government miss their annual emission target by only 1 . 2 % . that tell we two thing . the action of the Scottish Government be help we to track very closely to where we need to be against the backdrop of some of the most stretching target in the world . equally , there be a great deal leave to do . of course , the delivery of Scotland ' s climate ambition be also contingent on action by the UK Government in reserved and share area , and that certainly have not be help by the Prime Minister ' s recent abandonment of key net zero commitment . the sheer scale of his policy reversal may have a significant impact on Scotland , not least in the preparation of our own draft climate change plan . I be afraid that the King ' s Speech only deepen those concern . the problem with the announce new licensing system have be highlight by both climate scientist and anti - poverty campaigner , so I do not need to go into they , but analysis from early this year show that new oil and gas field in the North sea will produce only enough gas to meet the UK ' s need for a few week a year . if the government be serious about strengthen the UK ' s energy security and bring down people ' s energy bill , they would start by announce robust measure to incentivise investment in renewable . I think in particular of tidal stream — I speak about that regularly in this House — similar to what we be see from the EU and the US , as well as match the Scottish Government ' s £ 500 million just transition fund . People in Scotland be rightly ask how it be possible that they be face unaffordable energy bill when in 2020 Scotland produce enough renewable energy to power the equivalent of every household in the country for more than three year . they be also wonder why in a country where we produce six time more gas than we consume , Age Scotland ' s figure suggest that a scandalous 50 % of people age 55 to 64 be live in fuel poverty . we be also see the damaging impact of Brexit on environmental protection and standard , which member on the SNP Benches warn of repeatedly . the Tories ' Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 threaten the high standard that Scotland enjoy as an EU member , before we be remove against the wish of the clear majority of people in our country . just this week , we hear the UK Government ' s plan to reduce the safety information require from chemical company to register substance to an irreducible minimum . the UK ' s registration , evaluation , authorisation and restriction of chemical — UK REACH — be already fall behind the EU ' s regulation , and that move will only heighten the risk of toxic substance enter the environment . in the realm of national security , the Defence Committee ' s recent report on climate change find that the Ministry of Defence could do much more to measure and reduce its carbon emission without erode military capability . I hear what the hon . Lady say about chemical ; the Government be plan to produce a new chemical strategy . she may not be aware that the European Union refuse to allow the United Kingdom access to all the information on REACH . the cost of replicate exactly the same information be huge . she need to be mindful that we be try to support business , while recognise that the European Union could have give we access and refuse to do so . that be just another complication cause by Brexit , which have be a disaster for the UK . as I mention , in the realm of national security , the Defence Committee have take a close interest for some time , so it seem that some sort of environmental audit would be appropriate for Ministry of Defence activity . whoever win the next election face a long road to rectify the decision of the current government . hon . member should not take my word for it , but it do not bode well for the UK ' s stand on the climate crisis ahead of COP28 . Lord Deben , the former chair of the Climate Change Committee , say in the summer that by fail to act decisively in response to the energy crisis and building on the success of host COP26 , the UK have lose its claim to global climate leadership . to restore influence and authority ahead of COP28 , the Prime Minister should take heed of the letter from the all - party parliamentary group for climate change , which member from different party across the Chamber have sign . it call on the Prime Minister to appoint a Secretary of State - level UK climate envoy ahead of COP28 , after the government scrap the role of special representative on climate change within the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . we want the UK Government to support climate - vulnerable country by commit new and additional grant - base finance to the loss and damage fund , and champion a just global energy transition by engage with affected worker and support other country to fairly move away from fossil fuel . as we all know , the Paris agreement bind country to stop the planet heating by 1 . 5 ° by the end of the century . however , current policy be set to heat it by about 2 . 4 ° . that trajectory spell disaster for the planet . we must play our part in reverse it immediately . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for water , sanitation and hygiene , I declare an interest relevant to this debate and to the future of our globe . I be honour to be part of this debate on such an important issue . no other important issue be raise so many time by young people when I visit school in Putney , Southfields and Roehampton , and by the many member of the Putney Environment Commission , which I set up shortly after I be elect for local people interested in take action on climate internationally , nationally and locally . last night we have a meeting about what we can do to rewild local street in London , and be look forward to play our part in action before and after the United Nations climate change conference , COP28 . I will attend the conference , with a delegation of 10 mp . it be important that parliamentarian be at the conference , meet expert and activist who be all work towards ensure a green future and the action on climate and nature that be so important for our long - term survival . this year , 2023 , will be the hot year on record . every day we witness the climate crisis unfold , from the effect of El Ni ñ o to the UK batter by storm after storm . currently , between 3 . 3 billion and 3 . 6 billion people live in area that be highly vulnerable to climate change . the world ' s poor people , include woman and girl so often on the frontline , be pay the high price . under current estimate , we face a 40 % shortfall in fresh water by 2030 — not very far away . water scarcity be escalate , which affect trade , economy , poverty reduction , food and nutrition , but also migration — an issue that be a subject of many debate in this House and will only be exacerbate by climate change . that be the tip of the iceberg . the disruption and damage that the climate crisis cause and will cause to all our life can not be overstate . as the Minister say , the world be badly off track to agree the Paris agreement target and keep 1 . 5 ° alive . the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) mention mangrove forest . I be also a fan , have be to visit mangrove forest in Bangladesh when I work for Water Aid . I have the privilege of visit a coastal community in Bangladesh , where the climate crisis be already extremely real . it use to be a freshwater area where people survive by fishing , but it have be salinate . I sit with a group of woman in that rural area where they could not harvest or grow anything — there be nothing they could do . they want to move anywhere else , but be stick in an area that seem arid , like a desert from the future , where climate change be make such an impact on community . I have say many time that climate change be not something that will happen to we ; it be happen now . that be understand by the recent cop , but need to be understand even more . if we be too late , there will be no concrete action to effect change at the scale we need . the main outcome need at COP28 be obvious : an agreement for no new fossil fuel . many organisation such as the International Energy Agency have say that to achieve global net zero emission by the year 2050 , there should be no new fossil fuel extraction project beyond those already commit . how can the Government believe that approve more than 100 new North sea oil and gas project be in any way in line with that , the legal framework or the view of the vast majority of voter ? as other country forge ahead with renewable , the UK be lag behind . we need to keep it in the ground , it be very simple . unless we and other country get this right , there will not be the progress we need . climate justice be very important . make sure that low and middle - income country can respond to climate impact be essential . I hope that will be one of the big outcome of COP28 . in 2009 , rich government agree to provide $ 100 billion in climate finance annually to develop country . but that goal , which originally be mean to be fulfil by 2020 , have still not be meet . the £ 11 . 6 billion adaptation and mitigation finance that the UK pledge in 2019 be more loan - base than grant - base , and so only increase debt for the world ' s most indebted country . some 85 % of our climate finance be grant - base . I be very glad to hear that . that need to be the future , because grant - base instead of loan - base be vital . I be glad that there have be change along the way , as a result of a lot of campaigning . I highlight five area of concern . first , on phase out fossil fuel , the UK Government must play their part in end the fossil fuel era by commit to cease direct and indirect funding of overseas fossil fuel project , include those finance by british international investment , and instead commit to rapidly scale up investment in renewable energy at home . secondly , on the loss and damage fund , government at COP28 must commit to design a loss and damage fund with adequate grant - base funding arrangement and specific plan to support country face economic and non - economic loss and damage . the polluter must pay . the fossil fuel industry be post record profit , but it should be pay for the damage it be cause . the UK Government must commit to provide their fair share of funding through grant - base funding arrangement , and should have specific plan to support country that face both economic and non - economic loss and damage . the third concern be the need to fulfil climate finance pledge . the UK Government must meet their own climate finance commitment with additional , new fund , not by re - badging finance already give to British International Investment or the World Bank . the fourth concern be the need to reform the global food system in order to tackle the climate crisis . action on food and action by farmer go hand - in - hand with tackle climate change . government at COP28 must to commit to transform food system through progress on the Sharm el - Sheikh joint work on agriculture . alongside that , the UK Government must develop a cross - departmental strategy on provide support for more resilient food system internationally that prioritise the need of small - scale farmer . small - scale farmer be really the climate activist on the frontline of climate change ; they will be the good advocate , and will take the good action on climate change , but they need funding and support to do so . the fifth concern be the need to invest in climate - resilient water sanitation and hygiene project , and the need for policy that enable people to respond to immediate threat and to adapt to the impact of climate change where they be . People do not want to leave where they live because of climate change . they absolutely want to stay where they be , but with water for agriculture , to grow crop and to live in hygienic condition . the climate crisis be also a crisis of health around the world . as we see with covid , we need to be able to wash our hand . that be such a basic need . Healthcare centre need adequate water and sanitation . the climate crisis threaten advance in sanitation , which threaten advance in poverty reduction . we must also ensure we keep clean water , wherever it be find . labour will take far , fast action on the environment . labour know that this be an exciting opportunity for economic growth , for a new industry , and for job creation . we will insulate 19 million home within a decade under our warm home plan , which will cut bill by up to £ 500 and create 4 million job . we will act fast to lead the world as a clean and cheap energy superpower by 2030 . we will establish GB Energy , a new home - grow publicly own champion of clean energy generation , so that we can be really world - lead in the action that we take at home . we will deliver thousand of high - quality job to every corner of this great country . Labour believe that we need a just transition to a net zero economy . that can not be leave to the whim of the market , as be the de - industrialisation of the 1980 . Social justice must be at the centre of our response to the climate and environment emergency , and fairness must shape our approach to the green transition here at home . we have to actively shape that green transition , so that no one be leave behind and people and place be protect throughout . ecological breakdown be also a major problem ; the UK be one of the most nature - deplete country on earth . labour will ensure that we not only halt but reverse the loss of biodiversity in the UK by 2030 . in conclusion , I look forward to attend COP28 this year . I go to many international conference in my previous work before I be an MP . I always go with high hope , and always leave with a high degree of disappointment , feel that we could have go far . I could almost write the conference press release before I go , but I maintain a high degree of hope and optimism , as more and more people work together internationally to take on the crisis . all around the world , the green sprint have now begin ; there be a surge in renewable , green technology and economic growth . we be make , at pace , some of the technological advance that be need if we be to achieve the necessary outcome for our climate , and they be become affordable . I hope we can come together to stave off the bad of the impact to climate and nature , and together create a well and more prosperous world . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) . she may be disappoint by what she hear from other , but she never disappoint with what she say in this House . we be in Pakistan back in February . we have an interest in issue relate to persecution and freedom of religious belief , and in how we can help through work on human right . she be experience and knowledgeable on the subject of water , and we visit some encouraging project , but we be remind of the impact in part of the world where , unlike here , water be a scarce commodity . I be very happy to speak in the debate , and I can not believe it be again time for the annual COP meeting . this year it be in Dubai , where I be sure the weather will be much well than in the UK , give the storm we have recently . this year ' s cross - cut theme aim to address our main target : technology , inclusion , finance and front - line community . it be great that we have the opportunity to discuss these issue . it be always a pleasure to provide a Northern Ireland perspective in debate in this Chamber and elsewhere , so that we have a united and joint approach to our climate change and net zero target . it be also a pleasure to see the Minister in his place . I be encourage by some of the thing he refer to , such as the target meet and the goal achieve . I believe in give credit to those who do well . at the same time , if target be not meet , then we challenge . let we put on record our thank where goal have be achieve . it be also a pleasure to hear from the labour shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , and the SNP shadow , the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) . they make valuable contribution , as other have . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers ' Union , because I will speak about agriculture . across the world , we have fire , flood , drought and tsunamis . those thing do not just happen ; man and woman have a role to play in the world in which we all live . nature , I would suggest , be angry . it be nature ' s way of remind we that what we do have repercussion . to go back to Northern Ireland , it be no secret how crucial our agriculture sector be . I live on a farm . all my neighbour be farmer and most of they be dairy man . farming be the large emitting sector in Northern Ireland , contribute some 27 % of emission — and that increase over the 30 year cover by the statistical bulletin to which I refer . the Government , the Ulster Farmers ' Union and the National Farmers Union have commit to reduce those emission , and it be important that that happen . it be no secret how challenging it be to cut emission . large organisation such as the Ulster Farmers ' Union and the NFU have have to cope and adapt in a short space of time , so it be promise to see that COP will address that this year . it be important that that happen . on 10 December , the theme for the day will be food and agriculture . the aim will be to address innovation investment , regenerative agriculture and national transformation . that be a positive sign that our agricultural industry be be give the mean of contribute to climate target . at the Democratic Unionist party conference about a month ago , the UFU have a stand , and it have a paper on how to achieve net zero target . be under no illusion : farmer , landowner , my neighbour and the union be totally committed to do their bit to achieve climate target . there be definitely a clear , central role for farmer . many comparison can be make between the state of our climate and prevail health issue across the UK and far afield . as my party ' s health spokesperson , I be greatly pleased that health issue will also be address at COP . it look like a terrific conference , and there be lot of key issue on the agenda that I would like discuss . I have be in contact with organisation about the clean air programme , which be tackle the air quality issue face we all . for the first time at a COP summit , a full day ' s agenda have be devote this year to initiative design to " protect livelihood and support community resilience and stability " in the face of the advance effect of climate change . while some may say that there be no such thing as climate change , the fact — the evidence that we all have in front of we — tell we that there be , and that something must be do about it . there will be high - level discussion about the importance of clean air , which have be prove to lead to improvement in both mental and physical health . some three week ago , I speak in a debate about circular economy and their importance in our local community . ard and North Down Council , which cover the area in which I both work and reside , have a proven commitment to act sustainably to create a vibrant and healthy economy . recognise the contribution that local council and devolve administration can make to net zero target across the UK be perhaps the small but most important step to take in regulate environmental sustainability . the Scottish Parliament , the Welsh Assembly and the Northern Ireland Assembly all have a key role to play . we all play that role in our own place , but when we all come together , it be the teamwork that deliver . whether we discuss these issue at event as large as COP or more internally back home in local council chamber , we will never progress without have the conversation . it be great , and commendable , that effort in that regard be be make at all level of government . I look forward sincerely to hear the comment make at COP28 , and not only from the perspective of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . again , it be no secret that I love this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and I believe that it be well together . some may have a different opinion — at least one Member who be in the Chamber now , perhaps — but the rest of we be commit to the importance of that . when it come to look far afield and globally , the United Kingdom of Scotland , Wales , England and Northern Ireland , as well as all the region , have a part to play — at all political level : council , regional , and Westminster . COP provide an opportunity for a joint and united approach to meet our target , and that be something that we have to achieve . there be no " if " about it ; there be no question . we must ensure that effort be make in this place to achieve those goal . I call the Minister to wind up the debate . I congratulate all the member who have speak in the debate , which be an important one ahead of COP28 . far to the other interaction that I mention in my opening speech , we will be make a write ministerial statement on our priority for COP before we go , and I will be responsible for the negotiation there . it have be a very interesting debate , but it be a shame that the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) struggle so much to acknowledge the position that we be in . I have never hear it come out of her mouth that this country have cut its emission more than any other major economy on this earth , which it have , or that it have the most ambitious plan of any economy on this earth , which it have . it would be good to have that as a baseline ; there be plenty of room to pick up on issue and concern about our performance while also acknowledge that the UK truly be a global leader . I be pleased to say we be not only lead domestically , but lead in the international space as well . a couple of member mention the Climate Change Committee in the context of the Prime Minister ' s speech in September . it be worth note that the Climate Change Committee ' s analysis show that there be " no material difference " in our progress in cut emission since its last report in June . we be tack , as I would put it . however , our destination remain exactly the same . we be reassure people in rural area who be fearful that they could neither afford heat pump nor be sure of their functionality , while increase the subsidy for they by 50 % , and work to build the system and drive the cost curve down , so that more and more home can have they . that be right the way to ensure that we maintain public support for deliver net zero . the same apply to zero - emission vehicle . manufacturer have a ZEV mandate — an obligation to " green " their fleet up to 2030 . that build on our successful record to date ; we be ahead of the Climate Change Committee ' s and our own projection . we be maintain that ZEV mandate . the Climate Change Committee speak of " no material difference " in progress on particular change , but the focus on grid and other aspect of the Prime Minister ' s speech be all about turbocharge our effort to deliver not only the nationally determine contribution in 2030 , but net zero by 2050 . Methane be mention , and it be an important issue . the global methane pledge be a collective commitment intend to mobilise international action on methane . I be pleased to say that UK methane emission between 1990 and 2021 drop by 62 % , one of the large reduction in any OECD country , but I should also to highlight the fact that methane represent one of our big opportunity — the opportunity to ensure that that pledge be deliver not only domestically but internationally . it should also be note that we be the only major economy to set a legally bind emission reduction target , of 77 % , for 2035 as part of carbon budget 6 . we will see what happen at the 2025 cop in Brazil — 10 year on from Paris — but the expectation be that new ndc will come forward for 2035 . Finance be touch on in the debate . we remain one of the large and most active donor in international climate finance , and we be make record commitment . with the aim of help the world to adapt to the inevitable climate change impact that we can already see , at COP27 the Prime Minister make a commitment to triple UK adaptation finance from £ 500 million in 2019 to £ 1 . 5 billion in 2025 . the UK be also commit to maintain a balance between mitigation and adaptation spending , and to provide at least £ 3 billion of UK climate finance for the purpose of protect and restore nature . we provide the majority of our climate finance in the form of much - need grant rather than loan — which I think compare well with what be provide by some other donor country — and we prioritise our contribution for the big challenge face by the poor and most vulnerable . alongside Malawi and Vanuatu , I co - chair the climate and development ministerial ahead of the Abu Dhabi pre - cop meeting . it focus on the issue of access , which be absolutely right . we hear again and again from country such as Samoa , whose Minister have say that the access process take too long . at the CDM , we set out a " vision statement " express great recognition of the need for national programme development to ease access to money as well as increase the quantum . the hon . Lady be right : it be not enough to have this notional money if it do not actually flow to those who by definition , as she say , be the least able administratively to meet the requirement of some vast organisation . we need to make sure that the system fit the need of those it serve , rather than the other way round . I welcome what the Minister have say . I think that another problem for those country be come up with the evidence base to demonstrate the impact that climate change be have on they . there be currently some very good initiative : for example , science student from the UK be go out to study marine area . there be a great deal of interchange . do the Minister think we could do more to facilitate that evidence - gathering , which could then be use as a basis for make an application to show the need for climate adaptation funding ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . we need to make sure that technical assistance be there because , even as we try to get the green climate fund , the global environment facility , the World Bank and various other to improve their system and ambition to well meet the need of the most vulnerable — shout at both party be like shove a nine - pin plug and a three - pin plug together and wrap they in gaffer tape — we also need to get a smoother system that help they both to step up so that it genuinely flow , otherwise we will have endless frustration . hear Ministers from Vanuatu , Tuvalu , Samoa and elsewhere bring it alive , which be why these international meeting be useful . they remind we of the reality on the ground . since 2011 , the UK ' s climate finance have support more than 100 million people to cope with the effect of climate change , improve the climate resilience of more than 32 million people and reduce or avoid more than 86 million tonne of greenhouse gas emission . nature have rightly be mention , and we want to see action and ambition from the presidency and all party on transform food system and building policy , practice and investment for sustainable agriculture at scale . that include endorsement of the leader ' declaration on food , agriculture and climate action , support by a further commitment to policy action , innovation and investment through the policy dialogue for sustainable agriculture and the agriculture breakthrough . it be always difficult to keep our head around all these issue , as there be an alphabet soup of initiative . I always want to check that they be not duplicative , but they be often complementary and work together . the Minister be make a very strong case for the disparate issue that the Government be press on climate change . if we be to reach net zero by 2050 , there will also need to be a massive increase in the supply of critical mineral , whether for EV battery or solar panel . when he be go around all these initiative at international level , what discussion be he have with the like of Brazil , Indonesia and other lynchpin partner about join the Minerals Security Partnership ? that be the primary multilateral vehicle for address critical mineral . I thank my right hon . friend for his question , which come up frequently . when I be in Riyadh recently , I speak about critical mineral with his Royal Highness , Prince Abdulaziz , the Energy Minister of Saudi Arabia , which be critical in this piece . whereas my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) go on to the mangrove , I go on to Indonesia by way of Vietnam , and these conversation come up all the time . my right hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) be right that make sure we have resilient supply chain be fundamental to deliver this . we be do more on supply chain , and we be do it fast than ever before — even fast than the industrial revolution — and it be not only happen here . it be happen in other country at the same time , as it need to , so we have to make sure that our supply chain can meet that action . we can well do that through collaboration . it be not just about reach agreement on thing such as critical mineral ; it take many year to develop project and bring they through to production , which create even more urgency . to promote improve and responsible governance , we be also look for a commitment to support the forest and climate leader partnership at the world climate action summit at the beginning of COP . we also want to see partnership on water resource at all level . donor country and the private sector need to be involve , too . I thank the Minister for mention water . he be talk about the many issue he will cover when he go to the various meeting , so do he agree that water , sanitation and hygiene be important issue to raise ? will he look out for they in the outcome document , press release and statement that come out after the conference ? I enjoy the hon . Lady ' s speech . unsurprisingly , when I be in the middle east recently , water be right at the top of the agenda , reflect its importance . I attend the Net Zero Council meeting in Manchester last Thursday , and it be my pleasure on the following day to go to the Severn Trent water treatment work in Stoke . by the end of next year , it be expect to be the world ' s first carbon - neutral water treatment work , for which I pay tribute to Severn Trent . again , it show the importance of water , which be so often forget . water be one of the workstream of the Net Zero Council , which be establish this year to bring together the government and business to develop road map for each sector of our economy . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal for she drive , heartfelt effort to make sure that nature ' s contribution to the climate be fully recognise . the reason for hold the climate and development ministerial be that climate and development be two side of the same coin . if there could be a three - sided coin — I be stretch my metaphor — the third side would be nature , because climate , development and nature go together . we have talk about the importance of forest , and we have to make sure that the people who live in and around these carbon sink — they be not just carbon sink ; they have many other quality — have economic incentive that align with what we want . we have to make sure that they see development and opportunity for their family . it be only on that basis that we can even ask they to protect the nature that have be so denude here . if we be to ask other to protect their nature for the general benefit , we need to make sure that it fit with development , as well as contribute to climate and nature . I thank my right hon . friend for Suffolk Coastal for all she have do . her enthusiasm for mangrove be clearly share across the House . they be a bit of a miracle . make a difference often cost a lot of money , so we have to try to align incentive as much as possible . we need project in which very small amount of funding can make all the difference , so that mangrove stop shrink and start expand , and so that people return from the city to work with their family around the mangrove as part of a prosperous community . the mangrove need to be prosperous while develop as a carbon sink . it be very interesting to hear about the importance of mangrove . I would also be interested to hear what the Minister have to say about peatland . how will he be support they at COP ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . the Congo have extraordinarily large and important peatland , which have the same basic dynamic . everything be different , and every country be different , which be why we have to pull different thing together , but the fundamental principle be that we have to create a system in which the local people — from the governor of the province down to the indigenous villager — be well off by maintain and keep these peatland . we be keen to make sure that the role of peatland be understand because , again , they be a critical enabler . lose peatland can not easily be replace , and they be part of the negative tipping point we could reach if we do not take urgent action . I welcome the Minister ' s enthusiasm and recognition that peatland have an important role to play but , at the moment , they be emit carbon because of how they be treat in this country , particularly when it come to grouse moor management . do he agree that we need to address those practice ? many peatland be also site of special scientific interest or be mean to be protect for nature in other way . I will not stumble into another Department ' s area of responsibility . we work collectively across Government to share the burden of make sure we meet our net zero target . in wrap up the debate , I assure hon . and right hon . member of the Government ' s commitment to deliver on net zero at home and internationally . although there be evidence that a peak in global emission be within sight this decade , we need emission to peak by 2025 and to reduce by 43 % by 2030 . the sobering reality be that , this year , global emission be likely to reach a new peak , as member across the House have say . keep 1 . 5 ° within reach require nothing less than a paradigm shift . as I say in my opening remark , the UK account for less than 1 % of global emission . beyond what be directly within our grasp , the question before we be how we can help to create the will and the capability to move the remain 99 % , for which the major emitter , in particular , will be crucial . I would like to close by offer some reflection on the UK ' s role in help to drive forward international progress in this critical decade . for hon . member who be interested , we have set out in great detail the UK ' s vision and role in drive forward international action on climate and nature to 2030 in our 2030 strategic framework , which be available online . it set out six key global challenge , and how we will use our international partnership , strength in finance , expertise and domestic leadership , trade and investment , and world - lead strength in science and innovation to drive forward progress . the first point to make be that though the gap look unassailably large , we must not lose hope and fall into a council of doom . the reality be that effort to date have succeed in bend the emission curve away from apocalyptic level of warming of 3 ° or more . in some sector , notably energy and electric car , the transition be take off . the IEA ' s late world energy outlook predict a peak in fossil fuel use by 2025 , due to what it describe as the " unstoppable " growth of low - carbon technology . solar and electric vehicle particularly stand out . since only last year , the IEA have revise up its global solar 2050 capacity forecast by 69 % and increase by 20 % the number of electric vehicle it expect to be on the road by 2030 , such that it be expect electric vehicle to comprise two third of new car sale by 2030 . the lesson we should draw here be clear : rapid , large - scale transformation be possible . the challenge be that we need to replicate this success across all sector of the economy . there will be no single silver bullet to drive the transformational systemic change that we need on a global scale . we will deploy every important lever we have to accelerate action in this critical decade , build on the framework we put forward in the Glasgow pact and our 2030 strategic framework . that include work through the United Nations framework convention on climate change , bilaterally and through other channel . work with other who be like - minded , and other , we need to see country upgrade their climate target . there be no point in have a global stocktake eight year after the Paris agreement if it do not lead to a ratchet up of the nationally determined contribution to match the requirement that we find from the science . in particular , we need the major emitter to do that . country represent more than 90 % of global GDP be cover , as I have say , by some form of net zero target . those country now need to align their near - term target with the commitment that they have make . we will harness our global diplomatic network , international development offer and partnership to drive forward action . we will also be take action to realign financial flow in line with the Paris agreement and a nature - positive future . we will use our strength as a global green finance centre and role as a shareholder of key financial institution to reorientate finance flow and tap the power of market to make progress towards unlock the trillion require . we will accelerate transition globally through target collaboration with other , focus on the most important , highest - emit sector , through initiative such as the breakthrough agenda , so that we can reach positive tipping point and avoid negative one , and so that clean tech be affordable and accessible across all sector of the global economy . we will also continue to push to accelerate the global energy transition , for example , through our long - stand leadership on phase out coal in the Powering Past Coal Alliance . we will also champion the need to phase out unabated fossil fuel and at the same time transition the North sea into a clean energy powerhouse here at home . let I touch on that issue , as it be raise by other . we have new licence in the North sea for oil and gas because we continue to need oil and gas . we will need oil and gas in 2050 and beyond . our production be fall , without new licence , at a rate of about 9 % . with no new licence and no new investment , we will not see a greening of the basin . bad , we will see the loss of the subsea and offshore engineering capability we need , as it will either leave this country or be make redundant , rather than be retain here . the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) raise the issue of a just transition . there be a true transition to be make , and oppose new oil and gas licence in this country when we be a net importer of both , and when the emission that will come from import such as liquified natural gas would be high , make the opposition party friend of oil and gas worker , but just not those in this country . the approach of those party will not make any difference to how much we consume , but it will make a difference to our emission , and not in a good way , and it will lose the very engineering capability we need to deliver the transition , as well as a very material contribution to our ability to make that change , which be of course the £ 50 billion of taxis that we expect to get from the sector over the next five year . the opposition party be in entirely the wrong place . they have put optic ahead of do the right thing , and it do not take a lot of reflection or analysis to come to the conclusion that we be do the right thing . we must globally focus on the positive tipping point we need to accelerate the global low - carbon transition . I thank hon . member from across the House for their contribution to this debate , and I hope that my team and I will be able to count on the support of everyone in the House , despite all of the global challenge we face , to make the upcoming COP the success that the world need it to be . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider COP28 . Court Transcript Costs Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) I be grateful to Mr Speaker for grant my request for a debate on the cost of court transcript . justice should not have a price tag , as I think we would all agree . yet many victim be be deny access to justice because they can not afford to pay thousand of pound to obtain court transcript . not only be these extortionate cost unaffordable , but they be a major barrier to victim ' recovery . this issue be first bring to my attention in August when my constituent , Juliana Terlizzi , approach my office for assistance in obtain a court transcript . in 2020 , Juliana be drug and then rape in her sleep by her former partner . she be then force to wait two year for her case to be hear in court . backlog and chaos in the court system push back the date time and time again . meanwhile , her attacker be free to walk the street and use date app to search for other woman . in January 2022 , Juliana ' s attacker be finally convict , but she can barely remember what be say in the courtroom due to trauma and emotional distress . follow the trial , she be advise by a therapist to apply for a transcript of the proceeding to aid her healing ; this transcript would enable she to revisit and process what be say in court . she make an application to the court for a free copy of the transcript , but her application be reject . she be tell to contact one of the private company outsource by the Government to supply transcript . upon do so , she be quote a fee of an astonishing £ 7 , 500 . this be £ 7 , 500 to read what happen in a trial in which Juliana herself be the victim — £ 7 , 500 to revisit what be say while her trauma be discuss by stranger in a courtroom . that cost simply do not stack up . how can it be so high and why must Juliana foot the bill ? my team and I begin to research this issue some more , and I soon discover that Juliana ' s extortionate quote be not an isolated case , with some victim face fee of up to £ 22 , 000 . how can anyone be expect to pay such a fee ? court transcript should not be a luxury that only those very few victim with thousand to spare can afford . transcript be so important , because they be often the only mean available to victim to establish exactly what happen during a trial . victim and bereaved family routinely do not attend trial . some choose not to attend in order to avoid relive their trauma . one victim tell I that she would have be force to sit with her abuser ' s friend and family in the gallery if she be present at the sentencing hearing . other be misadvise by the police and court staff on their right to attend trial . shockingly , some victim be actively discourage from attend and tell that their presence would be a distraction to the jury . although the technology exist , victim be often not offer a video link to watch the trial remotely . there be a major lack of transparency of justice and a lack of information provide to victim . Most victim will find out the verdict only by a phone call . if the outcome be not favourable , what then ? how can a victim even begin to come to term with the verdict when they have no mean of understand how it be reach ? even for victim such as Juliana who be able to attend trial , a combination of trauma and legal jargon mean that it be extremely difficult to recall what be say . transcript be therefore a vital source of information for victim and bereaved family . transcript can support their understanding and allow they to take step towards recovery . the UK justice system be fail victim , who feel like bystander to justice . they have no contact with the prosecution , no insight into proceeding and very limited information on their right as a victim . victim have tell I that their experience in the UK justice system be retraumatise — one even describe it as more traumatising than the crime commit against she . our justice system must work to support victim and to encourage they to come forward . without victim bravely report crime , there can be no justice . yet there be currently many disincentive to report a crime . our court be still plague by backlog and delay . victim face average delay of 679 day between a crime be commit and case conclude at court . Justice delay be justice deny , and it allow criminal to continue to walk the street for far too long . the Conservative Government ' s failure to get to grip with the backlog be let down victim and their family , witness and defendant , and it undermine public confidence in the justice system . even when crime be report , in many case the outcome be not favourable . accord to Rape Crisis , just 2 % of rape record by police between July 2022 and June 2023 result in someone be charge that same year , let alone convict . for those victim who finally see their case bring to court , once the verdict be reach , they be toss aside . thing have to change . the Victims ' Commissioner for London have be work tirelessly to shine a light on the experience of victim in the UK justice system . I meet the commissioner to discuss the urgent reform need to well support victim , and I be proud to support her campaign for great transparency in our justice system . the Justice Committee look into the issue of court transcript cost . in three separate report over the last 18 month , the Committee recommend that the Government take step to improve access to court transcript and reduce cost . the Scottish Criminal Justice Committee also complete an inquiry into transcription fee , and a successful campaign lead by rape survivor secure a commitment from the Scottish Government to set up a pilot scheme to waive court transcript fee for victim of sexual violence . yet Ministers in Westminster continue to sit on their hand and allow private company to pass extortionate cost on to victim . the Victims and Prisoners Bill present the perfect opportunity to address this gross injustice . today , I publish an open letter to the Justice Secretary call on the Government to make provision within that Bill to enable victim and bereaved family to request a court transcript free of charge . I be delighted to be support by 40 co - signatory , include member from six different party across the House , among they the Mother and the Father of the House and the Chair of the Justice Committee . I be also join by the Victims ' Commissioner for London and senior figure from the charity Refuge , Rape Crisis , Women ' s aid and support after murder and Manslaughter . we stand united in support victim and their right to access justice . the Government often pay lip service to the importance of transparency and accessibility of justice . in response to a write question I table in September , the Minister write : " access transcript from proceeding in serious criminal case be not only a fundamental right of victim but be also essential for maintain transparency and accountability within the justice system " I welcome that statement from the Minister and I whole - heartedly agree with his position , so why be the Government refuse to take step to ensure victim be able to access timely and accurate transcript free of charge ? the Minister will point to the mechanism already in place to enable some victim and their family to obtain transcript , such as permit sentencing remark to be make available at the judge ' s discretion or measure to provide family bereave by homicide with sentencing remark . but that be not enough . countless victim be still unable to afford a transcript and , as prove in case such as Juliana ' s , more often than not , victim will be tell by the judge that their case do not meet the very narrow criterion for a free transcript . the Government have say that provide transcript to victim free of charge would result in significant cost , but that be not necessarily the case . there be step the Government could and should be take to reduce cost . in a report on open justice , publish last year , the Justice Committee recommend that his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service should explore whether great use of technology , such as AI - power transcription , could reduce the cost of produce court transcript . will the Minister provide an update on whether that recommendation have be act on ? additionally , will the Government look to assess the value for money of contract it hold with private transcription service ? be victim really get the good possible deal ? be £ 7 , 500 a fair price to pay ? I write to the Minister on 15 September to set out proposal to provide an audio recording to victim upon request . it should be possible to provide that at low or no cost , as recording be already make of Crown court proceeding . two day ago , I receive a response from the Minister that say his official would give the matter careful consideration . I look forward to hear more when some progress have be make . the Government can not ignore victim any long . victim and bereaved family need access to full , accurate transcript of court proceeding . anything less will be an injustice . I have table an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill that will enable victim to request a transcript of court proceeding free of charge . I urge the Government to accept the amendment in order to finally show victim that they matter , that they do the right thing in come forward and that the UK justice system will support they , during the trial and afterwards . ahead of the Bill ' s Report stage , will the Minister meet I to discuss my amendment and the experience of my constituent ? his engagement on this issue be vital if the Bill be to succeed in deliver a positive outcome for victim . I thank the victim , advocate and charity that have take the time to share their experience and insight with I . without their tireless campaigning , change could never occur . I now hope the Government will honour their work and commit to improve transparency and accessibility of justice for victim . for that , victim need access to full transcript , free of charge . I congratulate the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) on secure this important debate . the principle that justice must be open and transparent go to the very heart of our justice system . uphold this principle be paramount to secure the trust and confidence of victim , whose experience be central to the way our society think about and respond to crime — we be as like mind on that . I be sorry to hear about the experience of the hon . Lady ' s constituent , Ms Juliana Terlizzi , as she seek to obtain a trial transcript as the victim of a horrific crime . I recognise that there may be many reason why victim may find a court transcript helpful in the aftermath of lengthy and sometimes complex criminal court proceeding . in case where victim do not attend the trial , they may seek to understand the verdict and how it be reach . even in case where a victim attend the trial , myriad factor may exacerbate the difficulty they experience in follow court proceeding , include have to face the defendant and the defendant ' s family , which can be particularly difficult for victim whose first language be not english . the ability to access transcript from court proceeding be an essential part of maintain transparency and accountability within the system . that be why we have provide the require technology to the Crown court to enable transcription of different part of the hearing from the recording make in all proceeding . understandably , a cost be attach to transcribe what could be week ' worth of audio , which will vary depend on the length of the trial . transcription company calculate the cost on a case - by - case basis depend on a variety of factor , such as the size of the transcript , whether it be a copy or a new version be request , and how quickly the transcript be require . prepare a court transcript be currently a manual process whereby transcription company listen to audio file to transcribe the hearing . although AI technology be available , the most recent pilot to test voice - to - text technology do not demonstrate sufficient accuracy — an element that be crucial where criminal trial record be concerned . take together , produce a full trial transcript , depend on its size , can cost in the region of thousand of pound , as the hon . Lady point out . I appreciate the concern around the charge quote for trial transcript . however , the call to provide transcript free of charge to victim in all case involve significant financial implication to the taxpayer , which require careful analysis . it be also important to recognise that subsidise the cost of full trial transcript use public fund risk divert those resource away from other avenue to improve victim ' service and outcome . the Ministry of Justice have be work to make court record , such as transcript , judgment and judicial sentencing remark , increasingly accessible , include through more of they be publish online . I reassure the hon . Lady that we be carefully consider the issue that she raise as part of that work . we be committed to ensure that victim be support at every juncture of the criminal justice system . that be why we introduce the Victims and Prisoners Bill , which continue its passage through Parliament . the Bill will enshrine in primary legislation the overarching principle that must be reflect in the victim code , include entitlement for victim to be provide with information about the criminal justice process , as well as access to support service . that package build on concrete measure that be already make a real difference , include our commitment to the end - to - end rape review , which have already see we return adult rape case reach court to 2016 level , well ahead of schedule . I gently point out that it be not true that the Government have abandon victim . the Government have introduce measure that allow complainant to pre - record their evidence , save they from have to face their attacker . we stand up a 24 / 7 rape support line . victim have the right to court familiarisation visit , to seek a redetermination in the event that the Crown Prosecution Service decide to reduce the charge , and to make a victim personal statement . we will quadruple victim funding by 2024 - 25 , up from £ 41 million in 2009 - 10 , and we have roll out more than 800 independent sexual violence adviser . we have roll out enhance support at three Crown court , in Newcastle , Leeds and Snaresbrook , through the specialist sexual violence support project . we have upgrade technology and facility , and will continue with trauma - inform training for staff , a case co - ordinator to improve case progress , and give victim more opportunity to observe sentencing hearing remotely . there be obviously more to be do , but I gently put it on the record that the idea that victim of sexual crime be be abandon be simply not true . I do not think that I ever accuse the Government of have abandon victim , so it be slightly odd that the Minister be rebut that . however , will he expand slightly on whether victim could be provide directly with oral recording , instead of have to pay for expensive transcript that have be create from they ? my understanding be that at present it be possible for victim to visit the court by arrangement to listen to a full audio transcript of the trial , and that the sentencing remark can be particularly helpful to victim in understand how the judgment be arrive at . access to those be a piece of work that we be work on at pace . I accept the point about audio , and I be more than happy to take away whether they can be provide , as a step far than the victim ' s have to attend court . that be a fair challenge , which I will happily take away . the hon . Lady comment on the various report by the Justice Committee . she will also know that the Department recently conduct a call for evidence on the matter of open justice and ask the public which court record should be publish online and make available on request . that exercise be fundamental to ensure that we continue to uphold the principle of openness and transparency , while look at way to modernise the court to meet people ' s expectation . the call for evidence close in September , and we be currently evaluate the information provide . we will report back on our response early next year . alongside the Victims and Prisoners Bill and the call for evidence , I assure the hon . Lady that the Ministry of Justice be work with his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service to identify further opportunity to improve victim ' experience of the criminal justice system . that include examine , among other matter , the cost that they incur when obtain court transcript . I recognise that she have table an amendment to the Bill . she will be able to expand on her argument , and take the matter up directly with the relevant Bill Minister , when we come to that specific part of the Bill . I reiterate that victim can apply to the court for permission to listen to the audio recording to hear it at a suitable location , free of charge . it be at judicial discretion , but that be an opportunity for victim to hear the trial . to help with court transcription cost , we have make sure that bereaved family member of victim of homicide and of death by dangerous driving can get a copy of the judicial sentencing remark — a specific part of the sentencing hearing — pay for by the public purse . in certain serious criminal case , a copy of the sentencing remark can be make available , but I do accept that the hon . Lady would like we to go far . as I have say , the call for evidence on openness be be evaluate and I will ensure that her view be take into account as part of that work . to conclude , in line with the key principle of open and transparent justice , I recognise how important it be for victim to be able to access the transcript of criminal proceeding . there be exist policy that operate to achieve transparency for victim within the criminal justice system , but I recognise that there remain concern about the transcription charge . I can assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the hon . Lady that the Government be commit to improve the experience and support that victim receive . the Ministry of Justice will continue to progress the Victims and Prisoners Bill to put victim ' interest firmly at the heart of the justice system . we will also analyse and use the response that we have receive in the recent call for evidence on the matter of open justice and court record to well inform future policy . finally , we will continue to identify opportunity to improve victim ' experience of the criminal justice system , which include examine the charge that they incur when obtain court transcript . question put and agree to . House adjourn .