the emergency alert system be a vital tool for warning and inform in a case of a serious incident where there be a threat to life . this Government have use the tool five time , include the large ever deployment for Storm Arwen . we be incorporate the lesson identify , include on improved targeting , into alert mechanism . last month , I lay regulation , which , subject to parliamentary approval , will give the Infected Blood Compensation Authority the power that it need to pay compensation to all eligible people by all route . my aim be for the regulation to be enforce by 31 March to enable ibca to begin payment to all eligible group this year . the Cabinet Secretary may be ask by the Prime Minister to advise on any matter support the smooth running of government , include ministerial appointment . there be no write or publish guidance on such matter . we have strengthen the ministerial code , but we do not need to take any advice from the Conservatives . what we have see from this Prime Minister be decisive action to uphold ministerial standard . compare that with the record of the previous Government where the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , be find guilty of bullying but be allow to keep she post ; where the Government whip their mp to block the suspension of former Minister Owen Paterson , who break lobbying rule ; and where the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson lie about be tell of allegation of sexual misconduct by his Deputy Chief Whip . the Prime Minister be determined to uphold high standard of conduct in public office , unlike the previous Government . that be why decisive action have be take . this be a Government in the service of work people , and we will not hesitate to take action against any Minister who fail to meet those high standard . I know that my hon . friend take a keen interest in these matter . in 2023 , the previous Government suspend pay advertising on x while review alignment with our safe guideline . that suspension remain in place . we continue to post content , without pay promotion , to communicate important Government information .