I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue and bring it to the House . she be absolutely right to draw attention to the National Audit Office report and its damn indictment of a system that have lose the confidence of family and be fail child with special educational need and disability . she rightly call for the system to be reform . that be what this Government be absolutely focused on and determine to do . one of the first difference that we make on come into office be move the special educational need and disability remit within the school sector . our vision be one of mainstream inclusive education for all child who would benefit from it , while have specialist school where we know that child with the most complex need can have those need meet . that be not be deliver , and for far too many family it be not the reality . it be a reality that we urgently need to see , not only to address the local authority deficit to which the hon . Lady rightly refer , but to create well outcome for child . at the moment , the system cost the Treasury a significant amount . the hon . Lady tempt I into anticipate next week ' s Budget statement or make announcement ahead of it , which she know I can not , but she be right to identify that the system cost an increase amount but be not deliver the outcome that child deserve and family want . we be absolutely determined to reform the system . we be work at pace . all the change that we have make since come into office be to that end . we have launch the curriculum and assessment review , which will support a broad and inclusive education for all child . we have make change to Ofsted ; those change be continue at pace to ensure that the system take into account the whole school life and journey . that include create an inclusive environment for child with special educational need . Most of all , we be determined to restore parent ' trust that , in our education system , if their child have special educational need they will be identify early — we know that early identification be key — and support . we be continue to support early language and speech intervention and to prioritise the roll - out of special educational need training for the early year workforce to ensure that child ' s need can be identify at the early point . we be expand our childcare system to ensure that more child can get into setting as early as possible , so any need can be identify and so we can rebuild the public ' s trust that every child in our state sector will get the opportunity of a fantastic education , regardless of any additional special educational need or disability . my hon . friend highlight the fact that not only be the system create stress and fail far too many child and family , but it be not create the outcome that we want to see for every child , include those with special educational need and disability . I will raise the important point she have make with my colleague in the Department of Health who have responsibility for apprenticeship .