thank you very much , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question , but if the rail Minister be not available , you would think that the Secretary of State would be bother to turn up to the House on an issue of this importance . here we be yet again : 13 year of gross mismanagement and chaos come home to roost . first , the Government slash Northern Powerhouse Rail ; then they bin hs2 to Leeds ; then they announce that the line would terminate at Old Oak Common for year to come ; and now it look as though they be consider cut the north of England out in its entirety . if that be true , what be we leave with ? we be leave with the Tories ' flagship levelling - up project that reach neither the north of England , nor central London : the most expensive railway track in the world , which , thank to terminate in Acton , will mean a long journey between Birmingham and central London than the one passenger currently enjoy . what start out as a modern infrastructure plan , leave by the last Labour Government , link our large northern city will , after 13 year of Tory incompetence , waste and broken promise , have turn into a humiliating conservative failure ; a great rail betrayal — £ 45 billion and the least possible economic impact from the original plan , £ 45 billion and the north leave with nothing . but frankly , what else would we expect from a Prime Minister who do not travel through the north of England on rail ? he only ever fly over it . today , community and business do not need yet more speculation and rumour from the heart of this broken government — they need answer . will the Minister urgently explain if the photograph leak last Friday reflect his Government ' s position to slash phase 2 altogether ? will he confirm the commitment his boss make in this House just a few month ago that high - speed train will reach Manchester by 2014 ? be his Government plan for train to terminate at Old Oak Common for good , detonate the business case and overwhelm the Elizabeth line ? have run our economy , our public service and our railway into the ground , will the country not now conclude that this be proof , once and for all , that the Tories can never be trust to run our country again ?