business before Questions Lords Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Tuesday 6 May . Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Electricity Bills : Standing charge what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his Department ' s policy of recent trend in level of stand charge for electricity bill . we know that consumer be frustrate by stand charge , which be why we be commit to lower they . Ofgem have be consult on introduce a zero stand charge tariff that would shift the cost on to unit rate . the consultation have now close , and we will be work with Ofgem to take this forward . have the Department assess whether the rise standing charge be discourage resident in our constituency from switch to heat pump and electric vehicle because they be concerned about the fix cost that will come with they ? there be fix cost within standing charge relate to , for instance , the cost of maintain and upgrade network , which we have to cover , but we recognise the imbalance between the price that people be pay for electricity and the price that they be pay for gas . we be committed to deal with that imbalance , because we think it right that consumer can transition to clean heat . that be the way in which we reduce the amount of energy we use and , critically , that be the way in which we reduce bill . renewable energy sector : Job Creation what step he be take to support job creation in the renewable energy sector . what step he be take to support job creation in the renewable energy sector . since the last oral question in March , the Government have consent to the Rampion 2 offshore wind farm , create 4 , 000 job ; reach the final investment decision on the HyNet carbon capture , utilisation and storage cluster , create 2 , 000 job ; invest £ 300 million , through great British Energy , in UK clean energy supply chain ; shortlist 27 hydrogen company for hydrogen allocation round 2 ; and create a new £ 100 million fusion investment fund . this government be build the clean energy future in Britain . the reason I be here on that Saturday when Parliament be recall be because some of the mighty structure in the North sea be make from british steel at the Nigg yard . on the question of renewable , may I ask the Secretary of State what we be do about get out the skill to fabricate float offshore wind structure in the United Kingdom ? that be very much part of our plan . as the hon . Gentleman will know , in March we announce the provision of more than £ 55 million for the expansion of Port of Cromarty Firth to create offshore wind supply chain in this country , and last week , along with GB Energy , we announce that investment of £ 300 million in supply chain . we be determined not just to generate offshore wind in Britain , but to take advantage of the huge economic opportunity that it represent . I hear what the Secretary of State be say , but Scotland ' s decline oil and gas industry have lose 40 % of their job in the past decade , and today Grangemouth have warn that it may have to pause important project involve a switch to greener and more sustainable form of energy because of what it describe as soar energy bill and the pressure of income tax . we know that Grangemouth need investment , but it also need more than the Government be do at the moment . what intervention be they plan to protect job and the community that could be hollow out if Grangemouth be not save ? as the hon . Lady will know , we inherit this situation from the last government , but we set aside £ 200 million to build the future in Grangemouth and we be work closely with the Scottish Government on precisely that , in a Government - to - government collaboration . as for the hon . Lady ' s wide question about industrial energy price , we should obviously look at what different sector be say . a lot of nonsense be be talk about steel . UK Steel have say categorically that the difference between our price and those of continental Europe be a result of our reliance on natural gas power generation . [ interruption . ] opposition member say " Rubbish " , but that be what UK Steel have say , and that be why our clean power mission be right for family and right for business . today mark the end of more than a century of refining at Grangemouth . Scotland be once again a victim of industrial vandalism and devastation — and I do not want anyone in this Chamber to dare mention a " just transition " , because we all know that the Conservatives when they be in power , and the Scottish National party currently in Holyrood , have do nothing to avert this catastrophic decision . I put it to the Secretary of State that during the general election campaign the Labour leadership say that they would step in and save the job at the refinery . what have change , and why have we not do the sensible thing for Scotland ' s energy security ? my hon . friend be talk about a very important issue , and Grangemouth have a very important role in Scotland . what I will say to he and to other be that as soon as this Government see the situation that they have inherit , they put money in to help the worker , and they have make that huge investment commitment of £ 200 million , work hand in hand with the Scottish Government , so that we can build the future in Grangemouth . we be absolutely committed to build the future for Grangemouth community , and we look forward to work with my hon . friend and other member on both side of the House to do that . yesterday be International Workers ' Memorial Day . at a service this weekend in Falkirk , a Grangemouth refinery worker rightly call for oil and gas worker ’ skill not to be consider obsolete , but utterly essential for the just transition . what consideration have minister give to the urgent policy recommendation in Project Willow to provide accelerated investment in clean energy infrastructure and the job it promise for Grangemouth ? my hon . friend , who be also a really powerful advocate for his constituent , be absolutely right . Project Willow be leave on the shelf by the previous Government . we put the money in to take Project willow forward and we be now go to implement it . absolutely crucial to that be ensure the skill of oil and gas worker be properly use in the future , include with the skill passport which also lie dormant under the previous Government and which we be power ahead with . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . through my work on the Select Committee , I have hear repeat concern from industry leader that exist worker in their 50 and 60 see no point in retraining because they believe they will see out their career support old technology . that have a knock - on impact on young entrant to the workforce , who have traditionally learn their skill from more experienced worker . will the Secretary of State outline what step he be take to incentivise retrain to support growth in the renewable energy sector ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point . that be why we be work with the Department for Education to make sure we do not just have a clean power plan that will help to create hundred of thousand of job across the country and invest in supply chain , which I talk about early , but crucially offer opportunity for young worker and inspire they about the possibility that be available , and create opportunity for old worker , too . all that work be ongoing in Government . UN Climate Change Conference 2025 what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the UK ' s priority for the UN Climate Change Conference 2025 . we be work closely with the brazilian presidency to support a high - ambition outcome at COP30 in Bel é m which reflect the scale of the challenge and our share 1 . 5 ° goal . that include ambitious new nationally determined contribution and the effective implementation of the global stocktake commitment , as well as action on issue such as tackle deforestation and methane emission . it be encouraging to see the Prime Minister ' s commitment to go far and fast towards net zero at the international energy summit last week , because not take action on climate change will cost we much more . do the Minister agree that clean energy be not only good for the planet , but can give my constituent in Bedford and Kempston energy security and low bill ? my hon . friend be right . other country be look to we . the conference last week be a good example of we be back in the business of global leadership . whether it be through the Global Clean Power Alliance or our national mission to be a clean energy superpower , we be spearhead the transition because it be cheap , clean and more secure . his constituent will benefit from that too . I welcome the announcement make only a few day ago that the Government will adopt the amendment to the great british Energy Bill to prevent slave - make good , mean that they will not be balance their environmental conscience on the back of some of the world ' s most endanger and troubled individual in the uyghur population in Xinjiang . will the Government extend that to the private sector to make sure no slave - make good be come into the UK ? in New Ash Green and Ridley in my constituency , a solar panel farm be be put in that not only threaten the environment , but threaten to bring in slave - make good into the United Kingdom . I would dispute that it be threaten the environment , but we will be look at the wide issue the right hon . Gentleman raise through the solar industry taskforce . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the overwhelming majority of those at the international energy summit last week say that the transition to low - carbon energy be crucial to energy security . do my hon . friend agree that those in this Chamber and beyond who do not support the transition to low - carbon energy be play fast and loose with this country ' s energy security ? that be absolutely the case . it be hearten to see so many country and so many representative from business come together at the conference last week . we be show global leadership on this issue . we know it be the way forward in term of our energy security , and not put we at the mercy of dictator and petrostate . I thank my hon . friend for his support . give the sheer scale of the outage in Portugal and Spain over the past few day , be it likely that the conference will consider and possibly conclude that there be some correlation between the obsession with net zero and what happen in Portugal and Spain ? first of all , I be sure the whole House will want to send support to Spain and Portugal follow the incident yesterday . there be no effect in the UK , but we will continue to closely monitor the situation and any lesson learn from this event . I be not go to speculate as to its cause , but we do need to ensure that our own system be as resilient as possible . Climate Change : International Leadership what step he be take to establish international leadership on climate change . what step he be take to establish international leadership on climate change . international leadership on climate change be critical for this Government , which be why we announce a world - lead nationally determine contribution at COP29 and be at the heart of negotiation during the summit . I have be work extensively with international counterpart to ensure maximum ambition from country around the world at COP30 , and look forward to further engagement . I recently receive letter from year 4 child at SS Peter and Paul primary school express concern over the impact of climate change on their future , mention the extreme weather and the destruction of our natural habitat for our wildlife . the UK ' s 10 warm year on record have all occur since 2002 , and 2022 be the UK ' s hot year , with temperature exceed 40 ° for the first time . despite be eight to nine year old , they give suggestion for how the Government could help by provide clean source of energy , such as make solar panel more affordable . will the Secretary of State reassure I and those pupil that we be do everything we can to be a world leader in tackle climate change and to sustain the future for our child ? I be glad to hear that the child at SS Peter and Paul primary school be take such an interest in this issue . I can assure they that we be do all we can to make Britain a clean energy superpower , such as lift the onshore wind ban and set up great British Energy , and we be protect nature too . we be also commit to engage more with young people , and I will make sure my hon . friend be keep inform of our plan . it be welcome indeed to see the Government now play a lead role internationally on climate action through the global clean power alliance , especially after a decade of failure that leave we expose to soar gas price . it be also great to see the Secretary of State stand up to climate denier in this House , whose hostility to net zero would keep bill high and cost area like mine the job and investment that they need . one area where we need strong leadership be on fund climate action fairly . in the come day , I will be introduce a Bill to make the big polluter pay for the action we need both at home and abroad . I do not expect the Minister or the Secretary of State to comment on a Bill they have not see , but will the Secretary of State commit to a meeting between his Department and a broad group of charity and non - governmental organisation work to ensure fair and just climate financing ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s support for the Government ' s climate leadership . we be do all we can to mobilise climate financing in support of the new collective goal agree at COP29 . I would be more than happy to meet he and campaigner to discuss his Bill when he be ready to do so . one area where we could show significant leadership be in the sphere of float solar , which come with huge benefit . my constituency have 2 , 000 acre of raise reservoir where we keep half of London ' s drinking water — you can not see the top of they , Mr Speaker . float solar be twice as efficient as land - base system and come with none of the opportunity cost of put solar panel on grade a agricultural land ; in fact , float solar panel actually improve the water quality underneath , so that Thames Water would have to use less filtration downstream . I hear , however , that the Government ' s solar road map have disappointingly little about float solar . would the Secretary of State agree to meet I to discuss this far , prior to publication ? as I understand it , the solar road map have not yet be publish , so watch this space . I have be have conversation in the past couple of week with international counterpart who be interested in float solar , and I would be happy to get the hon . Gentleman a more detailed response on our plan on that front . as the Minister know , global leadership be about adaptation and mitigation . do she expect the Climate Change Committee ' s report on adaptation , which be due out tomorrow , to say that the Government be do enough in this regard ? furthermore , will she show real leadership by require local authority and major infrastructure provider to carry out climate risk assessment , so that , statutorily , they will have to ensure that climate resilience and preparedness form a part of their plan ? I can not pre - empt what be in the report . we will wait for it to come out , and then respond in due course . on local leadership , the hon . Lady and I share a local authority , and I would be very happy to discuss with it what more we can do to set an example — as Bristol have do so many time in the past — on how thing can be do at a local level . I call the shadow Minister . as we have see in Portugal and Spain , renewable energy can sometimes be unreliable . give the dominant role that China play in our renewable energy infrastructure , will the Minister set out for the House the full detail of the deal that the Secretary of State sign in secret with the chinese Government ? my right hon . friend , the Secretary of State , assure I that the deal be not sign . he will keep the House inform as and when it be appropriate to do so . Domestic Energy Bills : transparency what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the transparency of domestic energy bill costing . under Ofgem ' s current rule , supplier must provide complete and accurate billing information . critically , bill be require to be display in plain and accessible language . we will work with the regulator to ensure that supplier abide by that . however , it be worth say that we recognise that many consumer feel let down by a broken energy system that be not work on their behalf . that be why we be review the role of Ofgem , to ensure that it have the power necessary to be an effective consumer champion . when it come to bill , the public understand what unit cost be , but not what standing charge be . when I raise this with the previous Government and Ofcom , they say that it be a complex matter , but what I be ask for be transparency , so that people understand how the charge be make up , and can then make a judgment on what it look like . will the Government commit to ask Ofgem to ensure that that information be include in the billing , so that we can see the breakdown of cost — how much be go on human resource and how much be go on the actual infrastructure and wire — so we know exactly what be go on in the energy market ? we support transparency . Ofgem publish the breakdown of all cost within bill , but there be more that we need to do to ensure that consumer understand what be go on . critically for we , we know that consumer be very frustrated about the standing charge , which be why we be commit to lower they . as I have say , a consultation be under way around what we do with standing charge , which include introduce a zero - stand - charge tariff . within that , we will be consider option to increase transparency . many household in rural and coastal area , include in South East Cornwall , be not connect to the gas grid and rely on alternative fuel , which often cost they more . what step be the Minister take to ensure that , unlike under the previous Government , these resident be not leave behind in future support scheme ? we be very clear that every part of the country must benefit from this transition , so whether it be through our warm home scheme or the work that we be do locally through great British Energy , we be make sure that there be a solution for every single part of the country . in my Department , I be do a lot of work to make sure that we have a set of proposition for household in rural area , so that they can upgrade their home and have bill that be cheap and home that be warm , which be the central plank of our warm home scheme . I call the shadow Minister . several time now , I have ask Ministers to rule out align the british carbon price with the european one and each time they have refuse to do so . they have already abandon their promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 a year , but alignment would increase wholesale cost and therefore increase bill for every family in the country . can the Minister , at last , be straight with the public and tell we whether the Government plan to match the european carbon price — yes , or no ? we be engage with industry on this matter . the Confederation of British Industry and Energy UK be clear that they should support alignment , but we be look at that . ultimately , we be do everything that we can to bear down on energy cost in this country . that be why we be sprint to clean power . we inherit an absolutely atrocious legacy from the conservative party , which allow business and consumer to bear the price of a broken system . we will not make the same mistake , which be why we be crack on with the job . I think we be get close to the Government admit their secret plan . as soon as the local election be do , Labour be go to sell out to Europe , and the result will be high bill for british family . but there be more : the EU be expand carbon pricing to include transport and heating emission , so alignment with the expand scheme would mean extra taxis on every british family for drive their car and heat their home . will the Minister rule out align at least with the expand scheme and say no to new taxis on everyday life — yes or no ? I be absolutely disappointed by the Conservatives . I should expect more , but maybe I need to get use to be disappoint . we see the press release a week ago , and it have have no publicity because it be a conservative party scare story . it be absolute nonsense . the Government be serious about bear down on the cost of energy for business , and we be get on with the serious work of do that . I suggest that the Conservatives get a grip and join we in that task . Clean Energy Transition what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the clean energy transition on worker . we firmly believe that the clean energy transition be the economic opportunity of the 21st century . in recent week , we have secure thousand of new job in carbon capture , offshore wind and british supply chain . as we transform the way we power our country , we be determined to ensure that community across our country benefit from good job and good wage . that be what our clean energy mission be all about . I thank the Minister for her response , but could she go far in set out the Government ' s assessment of how in the clean energy transition new job can be create here in the UK in the manufacturing of component for offshore wind and other green energy project ? I be delighted that last week the Government be able to announce an initial £ 300 million through great British Energy to invest in supply chain for domestic offshore wind . the fund will boost domestic job , mobilise additional private investment and secure manufacturing facility for critical clean energy supply chain . we be publish our industrial strategy in the spring , which will set out our approach to the high growth - drive sector , include clean energy industry . there be more good news last week for carbon capture , usage and storage worker in England , with £ 200 million in supply chain contract for the Liverpool Bay HyNet project , which will even benefit north Wales now . that be on top of the £ 22 billion that benefit Teesside and Merseyside . I have check , and those place be not the centre of the UK ' s energy industry for the last five year . why have the Government not allocate a single penny to the Acorn project in Scotland , where the clock be tick and where investor be very concerned that this Government be not serious about it ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s support for Government policy and for our investment in CCUS . as he know , Acorn be a matter for the spending review . I talk to many industry in Scotland , and everyone be supportive of the scheme . we support the scheme and be work closely with industry , but it be a matter for the spending review . Household Energy Efficiency what step he be take to help improve the energy efficiency of home . what step he be take to help improve the energy efficiency of home . in 2025 - 26 alone we will upgrade up to 300 , 000 home through the warm home plan and other measure . that be more than double the number of home upgrade last year . later this year we will set out more detail of our warm home plan to upgrade up to 5 million home with energy - efficient technology such as heat pump , solar and insulation in order to deliver warm home and low bill . I recognise that there be very good scheme for those on low income and that heating home be really important . for many old property and property in conservation area , as fast as we heat the home , the heat just go out the window . in my area , where there be lot of old home and home in conservation area , it be near impossible to get permission to apply double or triple glazing . can the Secretary of State sort out this tension between have warm home and old home , particularly when he be try so hard to ensure that home meet the C grade rating for energy performance certificate by 2030 ? this need to be sort out with planning department . the hon . Lady raise a really important point . I be constantly on the look - out for small measure and large in the planning system that can obstruct the sensible energy efficiency measure , such as solar panel , that will make all the difference . I say to she and other Members of the House that if they have specific example of barrier or interpretation of guideline that be get in the way — sometimes be not about the rule but about local council ' interpretation of they — please bring they to our attention , because we be constantly try to make it easy to make such upgrade happen . Earl , a social housing tenant from Glastonbury , be disabled and have face multiple barrier that have prevent he from self - fund improvement to the sustainability and energy efficiency of his home , in order to help he reduce his energy poverty and improve his health . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that social housing tenant receive energy upgrade in their home , and in particular those live in old housing stock , where upgrade might be more complex to achieve ? it sound as though the hon . Lady be raise an individual case , and if she want to draw it to our attention , she can do so . on the more general point , I believe that her local authority have receive £ 6 million as part of the warm home local grant , so it would be worth talk to it about this . again — I be sure that I speak for the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , on this — where there be specific issue about how particular scheme be work , please do draw they to our attention and we will seek to act on they . Royal Shrewsbury hospital in my constituency be delighted to receive a £ 450 , 000 investment for solar panel , which will see our local trust save more than £ 1 million by reduce its energy bill in the lifetime of the project . will the Secretary of State join I in celebrate this excellent start to our nationalise Great British Energy company and update the House on the next step to get we towards that mission ? I do join my hon . friend in that . I say to all Opposition Members who vote against GB Energy that many of they will now be get solar panel on school and hospital in their constituency . let all their constituent know that those be local mp who oppose cut bill for school and hospital in their own constituency . I welcome the £ 17 million of Government funding for Norwich ' s Labour - lead city council to improve energy efficiency in home , which will help tackle fuel poverty and provide much more comfort . will the Secretary of State welcome Norwich Labour ' s leadership on this issue and set out how we will provide more funding to local council so that they can go far , fast ? my hon . friend raise a really important point about the crucial role of local authority in relation to these issue . one of the thing that my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister have do be devolve more funding to combined authority on this . we want to go far , include in relation to local authority , because it be local authority — include my hon . friend ' s , which I congratulate — who know good the particular need of their own locality , and they be a key part of the answer to the energy efficiency upgrade that we need . great British Energy what assessment he have make of the potential impact of great British Energy on job creation in industrial community . great British Energy will support the creation of thousand of high - quality , well - pay job right across the country and help rebuild the UK ' s industrial heartland . just last week , the Prime Minister announce £ 300 million for great British Energy to kick - start supply chain here in the UK . once the great british Energy Bill finish its final stage in Parliament , we will come forward with more exciting plan for our domestic clean energy champion . I welcome the £ 300 million of investment for GB Energy announce last week . I think we all recognise the opportunity of the green energy transition , but what opportunity be there for my Harlow constituent to be part of that publicly own energy company ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out that , with great British Energy and our clean power mission , we be try to create the job that will deliver that transition here in the UK , which be something that the Conservatives fail on for many year . we expect that funding , and much more that will come from great British Energy , to mobilise more than £ 1 billion in private investment in domestic supply chain , drive forward manufacturing and industry here in the UK and the good job that go with it . what assessment have the Minister make of the number of job that great British Energy will create in the People ' s Republic of China ? I think the right hon . Gentleman give the game away there . although the conservative party do not particularly care where the supply chain be , we in the Labour party be commit to deliver good , well - pay job in this country . if he be so concerned about invest in british supply chain , he might have bother to vote for Great British Energy in the first place . I call the shadow Minister . when GB Energy be first propose , we be tell it would employ 1 , 000 people and create 650 , 000 job . fast - forward to February this year and that number have be revise down to 200 to 300 , with a vague commitment to 1 , 000 at some point in the next 20 year . as the general secretary of the GMB say yesterday , " they be go to open a shiny new office … on a high street full of charity shop because they be close " the city of Aberdeen down . GB Energy be a white elephant . if the GMB can see it , why can not the Minister ? surely he agree that the way to deliver job , growth and energy security and to protect community such as Aberdeen be to lift the ban on licence , replace the energy profit levy as soon as possible and declare the North sea open for business . I be not quite sure which one of the variety of part in that speech the hon . Gentleman would like I to respond to . as usual , he steamroll through his question fast than he run the marathon — I congratulate he on that . he happen to be the only person in Aberdeenshire who be against investment in his community . when Labour member vote to deliver investment through great British Energy — not through job in the headquarters but through the investment it make in supply chain and innovation in his city — he vote against it , and he will have to answer to his constituent for that . Nuclear Power Sector what step he be take to support the nuclear power sector . nuclear power be a critical part of our clean power ambition . we be make strong progress on Sizewell C and great British Nuclear be drive forward its small modular reactor competition . we have also see the nuclear regulatory taskforce set up by the Prime Minister , and we be end the legacy of no new nuclear be complete in the 14 long year when the Conservatives be in power . the transition to net zero be a chance to create decent , high - skilled job for the future . that include the next generation of small nuclear reactor , which could revolutionise our energy market and deliver clean affordable energy . the SNP have veto nuclear energy project in Scotland for almost 20 year , determine to leave Scotland behind . be Scotland miss out on the economic opportunity that nuclear offer ? planning matter , include the siting of new nuclear , be devolve to the Scottish Parliament , so it be rightly for it to decide . however , I agree that Scotland be miss out on the huge potential of new nuclear . if the ideological block introduce by the SNP be lift , billion of pound could be invest in Scotland , with the countless skilled job that go with that . that could well be deliver next year if a Scottish Government be elect that take the industry and opportunity of Scotland seriously and deliver those well - pay skilled job — that would come by elect a Scottish Labour Government . datum from the last year show that Ynys M ô n see a drop of 57 % in job link to the nuclear industry ; the bad figure for a UK constituency . despite Wylfa be recognise as the good site for new nuclear in Europe , we see no development from the last government . will the Secretary of State and the Minister give we the recognition and acknowledgment that Wylfa need new nuclear and that that will be see in the near future ? the hon . Lady have raise with I that point and the wide question of energy job in her constituency a number of time , and I thank she for that and for the way she have do so . Wylfa be an important site and continue to be one that the Government be consider . we will take forward those decision in due course . as I have say to she on a number of previous occasion , we be commit to deliver the job that go with that and Wylfa remain an important site . reduce Industrial Electricity Prices what step his Department be take to help reduce industrial electricity price . industrial energy price double under the previous Government and industry suffer , as do consumer , when wholesale price rocket at the start of the Ukraine war . the good way to secure bill for the long term — for industry , as well as for consumer — be to deliver clean power by 2030 . the truth be that the Tories run down our energy infrastructure , just as they run down our road and rail infrastructure and our public service . we be rebuild that infrastructure , make it more secure for the long term and less reliant on foreign dictator , thus give we energy independence , good job and cheap bill . grow the economy will need cheap energy , but INEOS ' s chief executive have warn that Labour ' s crippling carbon taxis and other levy threaten UK manufacturing and make we more reliant on import . when will minister start listen and realise that their dogma - drive energy policy be cost job and investment , and when will they actually act to make our electricity price more competitive ? as UK Steel say recently , the main driver of the price disparity be the wholesale electricity cost , which be drive by the UK ' s reliance on natural gas . the good way to secure bill for the long term be to deliver clean power by 2030 , and that be what we be do . green job be great job , and I welcome the £ 43 billion of private investment in clean energy since the election of this Labour Government . in order to bring down our industrial energy price far , what step will the Government take to get we on to clean energy that we control and off the fossil fuel that be in the control of dictator ? my hon . friend be right to point out the huge amount of private sector investment that be come in with clean energy . this be why , in the industrial strategy , clean energy be one of the growth - drive sector where we have see 10 % growth in the economy . we be also see hundred of thousand of job , which the conservative now seem determined to oppose . we will introduce the clean energy of the future , and that be why we be push for clean energy by 2030 . that will bring down bill , give we energy security and create really good quality job . National Grid Resilience what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the resilience of the national grid against the potential disruption of offshore energy infrastructure . before I answer the hon . Lady ' s substantive question , I want to offer she my huge congratulation on smash to smithereen on Sunday the previous record hold by a female mp in the London marathon . Great Britain have a highly resilient energy network with diverse source of supply . the national energy system operator can balance the system in a wide range of scenario , include potential disruption to offshore infrastructure . the UK currently have about 15 GW of offshore wind capacity , which supply about 17 % of our energy . in order to reach the Government ' s 2030 target , this will have to increase by three time to 40 to 50 GW in just five year , and to achieve that we will have to rely on chinese wind infrastructure and technology . what specific risk assessment have the Government carry out into the impact of this expose vulnerability and reliance on China for what will be a significant amount of our energy supply ? I will not comment on individual investment case , but in every single case the Government make an assessment and we look at the national security implication seriously , just as the Conservatives do when they be in government . I would just gently say that the reason the supply chain in this country be as weak as they be be that they be underfunde and under - invest for year by the Conservatives . there could have be a decision , at the point when they take ambitious step to move towards clean power , to build the supply chain here , but they choose not to do so ; they choose to tow thing into our water instead . we be reverse that , but it can not happen overnight . Energy Efficiency : Council Leaseholders and Social Homes what step he be take to ensure that local authority have adequate resource for energy efficiency upgrade for council leaseholder and social home . at the 2024 autumn Budget , £ 1 . 8 billion be allocate to local authority and social housing provider , support they to deliver warm and more energy - efficient home across the country , target low - income household in particular . this go alongside our plan to raise standard in rent property to ensure that no social or private renter have to live in a cold , draughty home . I be pleased to see the Government ' s commitment to provide thousand of low - income household with energy - efficient upgrade . this could not have come too soon for my vulnerable constituent who be live on housing estate with outdated energy system that sometimes leave they without hot water and heating for month on end . Camden Council , which I know the Minister know well , have plan to upgrade the energy efficiency of those estate , but in many case it just do not have the resource to replace the heating system with heat pump , which would lower bill and carbon emission even far . what assurance can the Minister give I that local authority will be give the support necessary to deliver the energy upgrade to the high possible level ? my hon . friend make an important point . local authority will have a critical role to play in our warm home plan . under our warm home scheme , we be offer substantial support to enable low - income household to transition to clean heat . for example , our warm home social housing fund allow grant recipient to receive an additional £ 7 , 500 clean heat upgrade , and under our warm home local grant , £ 15 , 000 be be provide on top of the baseline to enable all household , particularly low - income household , to benefit from clean heat . I know how on top of her brief the Minister be , so will she confirm that few than a third of council home have an energy performance certificate c rating in 2010 compare with over 70 % by last year ? Less than 12 % of home in the UK have decent insulation in 2010 when Labour last leave office and when the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , who be chuntere from a sedentary position , be in power , and more than 50 % do by the time we leave office . will she commit to a fast rate of improvement under this government than we ever see under the previous Labour Government ? I welcome the right hon . member ' s commitment to our plan to upgrade home . however , he be try to rewrite history , because when we look at the record of the previous Government , we see many failure , but the most abject and egregious be the failure to insulate enough home to ensure that household be protect from price rise . that be the Conservatives ' legacy , and it be one we be determined to turn around . that be why we be committed to upgrade million of home across the country . National Wealth Fund : opportunity for Industry what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the opportunity for industry through the National Wealth Fund . the National Wealth Fund have a critical role to play alongside great British Energy in drive investment and job into clean energy industry . the fund be already make great progress , include participate in the late round by GeoPura , a UK - base green hydrogen pioneer , as well as support critical mineral in Cornwall , as part of our mission for clean power by 2030 . our Labour Government be drive economic growth in Luton and Bedfordshire through our support for the sustainable expansion of Luton airport and the exciting new Universal Studios . do the Minister agree that we need to match those positive development with incentivise investment in renewable energy to ensure that the pursuit of growth contribute to meet our climate commitment ? the Government welcome the plan to invest in and around Luton , include the expansion of Luton airport and the incredibly exciting universal theme park , which be on the " perfect site " , as its president say . it also have perfect mp . these project , along with the mass clean power investment we be deliver , will grow the economy and deliver direct benefit to the community that host this vital clean power infrastructure which will take all of we off the fossil fuel market rollercoaster . the domestic user of electricity pay 24p per kilowatt ; the domestic user of main gas pay 6p . People who live in urban Britain buy their energy for a quarter of the price pay by people in rural Britain . this be a massive problem , and I wonder whether the Minister could explain how the Government will address it . I thank the hon . gentleman for that question , though it be not quite about the National Wealth Fund . he be right to highlight electricity price . this be a challenge for industry and one we inherit from the previous Government . the good way to bring those bill down be to secure clean power by 2030 , but he be right to highlight the challenge , and that be what we be try to fix . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . last week , 60 government and more than 50 global business gather in London for the first global summit on the future of energy security with the International Energy Agency . I hear from country after country the hard - headed case for clean energy ' s role in deliver energy security to free we from the global fossil fuel market control by petrostate and dictator . I also hear from many clean energy business that Britain be the place where they want to invest because of the clarity and speed of this Government ' s mission . home in rural area experience some of the high rate of fuel poverty in the UK . rural property be less energy efficient than the national average and many be simply hard to insulate . will the Minister confirm that my constituent in Penrith and Solway will see the additional challenge of rurality reflect in the Government ' s ambitious warm home plan ? one hundred per cent — my hon . friend be absolutely right about that . the Minister for Energy Consumers and I often discuss how we have to ensure that our warm home plan take account of the particular need and challenge face rural area . I call the shadow Minister . voter " feel they ' re be ask to make financial sacrifice … when they know that their impact on global emission be minimal … present policy solution be inadequate and … therefore unworkable … the current approach isn ' t work … any strategy base on either ' phase out ' fossil fuel in the short term or limit consumption be a strategy doom to fail . " do the Secretary of State agree with his former boss Tony Blair ? the shadow Minister talk about the Tony Blair Institute report . I agree with a lot of what it say . it say that we should move ahead on carbon capture and storage , which the Government be do . it say that we should move ahead on the role of artificial intelligence , which the Government be do . it say that we should move ahead on nuclear , which the Government be do . the shadow Minister say only three week ago , after his party drop its net zero policy — this will surprise people , Mr Speaker — Order . no , Secretary of State . this be topical question ; I do not need a full statement . to be honest , I be look forward to hear what I say a few week ago , Mr Speaker . it be okay for the Secretary of State to admit when he be wrong . as Tony Blair say yesterday , this strategy be " doom to fail . " why can the Secretary of State not see what the GMB and Tony Blair see , which be that clean power 2030 be doom to fail and it be time for a change of approach ? that be not what the report say . the shadow Minister be talk absolute nonsense . the point I be go to make be that he say : " look , nobody ' s say that net zero be a mistake . net zero in the round be the eminently sensible thing to do . " those be not my word but his . some people say that the Tory party have only one policy . actually , it have two : it be against net zero and , through the shadow Minister , it be for net zero . North West Leicestershire have be at the forefront of industry for generation . now , lead global company such as ABB be invest locally , and our focus on energy efficiency be lead the way to net zero . apprenticeship be a core part of that . how will our government encourage apprenticeship in that sector in order to meet our net zero target and support young people into the good - quality job of the future ? the Office for Clean Energy Jobs be focus on develop a skilled workforce in core energy and net zero sector that be critical to meet our mission to make the UK a clean energy superpower . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I be work with Skills England to assess skill need and engage with the Department for Education on apprenticeship and the wide growth and skill offer . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . follow the publication of the severn estuary commission report on tidal power , will the Government produce a national policy statement to support tidal range energy , and will they publish a review of the available opportunity ? I have have a number of meeting on this issue since come into post . clearly , tidal could play an important part in an energy mix . we have be clear that we be supportive of it in principle , but question about its cost benefit and value for money must be answer . we be happy to continue look at it in future , as project develop and more detail come forward . I welcome the Government ' s view that nuclear power be essential to our clean power goal . what step be the Department take to ensure that new nuclear can be build wherever that be possible across the country , include in my constituency ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . new nuclear be absolutely part of the energy mix . that be why we announce important reform to the national policy statement . the previous such substantive reform be base on the one I publish as Energy Secretary in 2009 . we have update the statement in order to enable new nuclear to be build right across the country , include in his constituency . the power outage across Spain , Portugal and the south of France be a stark reminder of how energy security be key to national security . it be vital that any Government be alive to the risk to our national resilience . what step have the Government take to ensure that robust plan be in place in the event of power outage ? the hon . Lady ask an important question . I be in touch with the National Energy System Operator yesterday follow the event in Spain and Portugal — the UK be not affect . NESO and my Department take this incredibly seriously . I would also add , give that there have be some comment on this , that we should not jump to conclusion about what happen . let we see what happen and the reason for it , and then learn the lesson . last month be a fantastic opportunity to welcome the Secretary of State to the Vaillant factory in Derby and to learn about great british Nuclear ' s incredible investment of £ 1 . 8 million in solar panel . we know that , do right , the clean energy transition will support community across the UK and thousand of new job . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that Derby be at the heart of that opportunity ? my hon . friend be right : this clean energy transition be about create job . I be delighted to open the factory , which be create 200 job and be a £ 40 million investment , manufacturing cylinder for heat pump . this be an opportunity that this Government be go to seize for Britain . this Secretary of State think it be a good idea to fill our field with solar panel , at a cost of billion of pound to the british taxpayer . I hate to break it to he , but solar panel rely on sunshine , so why be he now support a project to block out the sunshine ? the hon . Gentleman never cease to amaze I , and not in a good way . reform have make its decision ; I be not sure what the Conservatives ' position be . cheap , clean , home - grow power be the answer for Britain , because it give we energy security and free we from the petrostate and dictator . we be in favour of it ; reform be against it . Goodness know where the conservative party be . electric vehicle sale growth be at risk of slow down . many private car and fleet owner would transition to EVs , but patchy provision of public charging for those unable to charge at home and inadequate power capacity for rapid charging on our strategic road network for long - distance driver be two key reason for reluctance to buy ev . what discussion be DESNZ minister have with power network , charge provider and the Department for Transport to address this ? order . I have a lot of member I need to get in . these be topical question — they be mean to be short and punchy . my hon . friend be right to point out that public charging point be critical . that be why the regulator , Ofgem , allocate £ 22 billion over the next five year to maintain and upgrade the infrastructure . I have have a number of meeting with network operator about this question , and I work closely with my colleague in the Department for Transport to ensure we be roll out more point . my constituent continue to face high electricity bill — among the high in the country at approximately £ 961 per year . one of my local hairdresser tell I that their electricity have go up from £ 150 to £ 450 a month . will the Government commit to bolder policy by ease restriction on solar and wind power and drive investment in renewable to help struggle business ? the hon . Lady be 100 % right — clean , home - grow power be the answer — so that be an unequivocal yes . industrial community such as St Austell and the clay country have be stifle in recent year by soar energy cost . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that industry such as the proud china clay industry be internationally competitive ? my hon . friend be right : there be a long - stand issue around industrial energy price . the key be get off the rollercoaster of fossil fuel market , because just as family finance be ruin in the cost of living crisis , it be the same in relation to business finance and public finance . it be an essential part of the answer . in my constituency , many elderly and disabled people face very high energy bill due to essential medical equipment and heating need . what support be the Government provide to ensure that these household be protect from the high cost of electricity ? we know that consumer be under pressure with energy bill . that be why last winter , £ 1 billion of support be provide to help vulnerable customer through our warm home discount and through industry . that be why we be extend the warm home discount from 3 million household to 6 million household and do ongoing work to ensure we be support the most vulnerable household with bill . next week I will be visit the site of a propose project in my constituency that will create the only new interconnector between Great Britain and France , which can be build and operational by 2030 , to help deliver the Government ' s clean power mission . ahead of the propose UK - France summit this summer , will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how to expedite conversation with our french counterpart , so that we can move forward with this important project ? my hon . friend raise a really important issue about interconnector . it be something I have be talk to the regulator about , particularly in relation to France , and indeed to my french counterpart , Marc Ferracci , who be in London for our international energy summit . I be happy for the Department to engage with she and tell she about the work we be do on that issue . during the general election , the Secretary of State repeatedly promise my constituent that if they vote Labour , their energy price would be reduce by £ 300 — not by " up to " £ 300 . will the Secretary of State repeat that promise at the Dispatch Box ? we say we would cut bill by up to £ 300 , and that be absolutely what we be determined to do . they have go up . the hon . Gentleman say that bill have go up , but let I give he a little basic lesson : they have go up because we be expose to fossil fuel price . the only way to bring they down be by have source of clean , home - grow power that we control . the Pimlico district heating undertaking be build in 1950 , the first ever district heating network in the UK . it use to be cut edge , but it be in desperate need of replacement , so that my constituent can have heating and hot water . will the Government work with local authority such as Labour Westminster city council to make sure that all the cost of replacement do not necessarily fall just on resident ? Westminster city council own the network , and we know that it be consider option for refurbishing and potentially decarbonise it . in the round , we be commit to work with district network to do two thing : to increase technical standard , so that they be more efficient ; and , critically , to properly regulate they , so that we protect consumer from unfair price . when will the Government decide whether to support the UK - Morocco power project ? I know the right hon . Gentleman have an important interest in this project . we continue to have discussion with xlink and obviously we be happy to brief he on those discussion . unlike Conservative Members , I really welcome the £ 200 million investment last week . it will be integral to create the good job of the future in constituency that be develop key technology for offshore wind , like my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village . with that in mind , will the Minister and the Secretary of State visit my constituency to see GE Vernova and the hard work that it be do there ? yes be the answer ; I look forward to it . my hon . friend be 100 % right : this be about the job of the future . conservative Members might want to turn their back on they ; we will not . as we need some oil and gas while on the road to a clean energy economy , do it not make sense to produce our own , rather than import it from other country and thus increase the global carbon footprint ? a consultation have just close on the future of North sea energy . we have be very clear that our manifesto commitment be to not issue new licence for explore new field , but we will manage exist field for the entirety of their lifespan . mps across the Humber region be unite in support for the vike carbon capture , usage and storage project . can the Government give an update on any progress with track 2 programme ? as with Acorn , we think Viking be a really important project . I be very proud of the progress we make on track 1 , and we be obviously look at both Viking and Acorn in the spending review . will the Secretary of State ensure that GB Energy have a focused plan to deliver , and to help the 1 , 500 farmer in my constituency to tap the latent energy in their beck and river , so that we can support farming as well as the battle against climate change ? the hon . Gentleman make a very important point about the role that local community energy can play ; I think that be what he be allude to . we be committed to ensure that . great British Energy local have already make some announcement in this space , include on local energy funding in England . we will have much more to say in due course , but we want to ensure a partnership , so if the hon . Gentleman write to I , I will make sure that what he say get to GB Energy . the Scottish National party celebrate the closure and demolition of Longannet coal power station in my constituency without have a plan for its future . the former First Minister press the button on the charge herself . what conversation do Ministers plan to have with the site owner , Scottish Power , about the future of the site , and what role might there be for the UK Government in bring investment and job to my constituency ? my hon . friend be right to make the point about Longannet . we have conversation with Scottish Power on a number of issue , include this . he again emphasise the important role that nuclear could play in Scotland in the future . it could obviously be an important site for a range of use , but if the ideological ban on nuclear by the SNP be lift , we could look at other opportunity for such site . when I be at the Scotland Office , I be regularly lobby by retire senior executive from the electricity industry who want to state their concern about how long it would take to reboot the network in Scotland if there be a major outage . obviously , I seek the necessary assurance from those run the network , but in the light of what have happen in Spain and Portugal , I would be reassure if Ministers seek those assurance again . my Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , and I regularly discuss this issue , which relate to one of the first duty of Government . I reassure the right hon . gentleman that not only be this a focus for Government , but we will look at what happen in Spain and Portugal to see if there be any lesson to be learn about our resilience . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on fusion energy , I know that fusion technology not only have the potential to create thousand of job , but could also be the answer to our long - term clean energy security need . do the Minister agree with I that support fusion be a good example of the Government ' s crowd in private sector investment , create job and win investment for place like the east midland ? my hon . friend be a real champion for his constituency , and for the benefit that the development of fusion will bring . we continue to invest and to have discussion with international counterpart . there be a very bright future for fusion , and for his constituent as a result . the Minister will be aware of the switch - on of Moray West offshore wind farm at Buckie , in my constituency , last week , create job , deliver clean energy and help our nation to achieve net zero . do the Minister accept that the current transmission charge regime pose significant and immediate threat to investment in offshore wind in Scotland ? will he meet I and industry representative to explore that matter far ? we be delighted to switch on the wind farm ; the Secretary of State for Scotland be there to push the button last week . it be a fantastic example of the potential of offshore wind . of course , I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . I have already meet he , and have a very enjoyable conversation , and I be very happy to talk about the issue . the review of the electricity market arrangement that we be go through will look at the issue of transmission charge . it be an important conversation to have , and I be happy to speak to he on the subject . the United Kingdom be particularly susceptible to change in international gas price during the energy crisis , and bill and price soar as a result . under this Government , GB Energy be instal solar panel in hospital in my Camborne , Redruth and Hayle constituency , but will the Minister remind we which party preside over the bad cost of live crisis in memory — order . Mr Moon , please . you will not get call again if you carry on like that . I be sure the Minister will know the answer . I be delighted to remind the House that it be the conservative party that leave we with energy insecurity , and we be never go to leave this country vulnerable in the way that it do . as my hon . friend the Member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) say , the Government seem to have a three - point plan . point one be to cover farmland in solar panel , and point two be to block out the sun . what be point three ? what be the point of the hon . Gentleman ' s party ? I have be contact by several constituent who have experience fail ECO4 scheme installation . what support be there for constituent when installation go wrong ? be rogue installer get pay for work that be not complete properly ? what step be be take to address such failure ? we be aware of issue that we have have with ECO4 and the great british insulation scheme . if constituent have be affect , they should have receive a letter from Ofgem . they should be able to contact their installer , who be oblige to fix the work , and there be a clear redress mechanism . there be a wide point : we know that the system for quality assurance and consumer redress be not fit for purpose and we be determined to overhaul it . in the 1970 , global warmist want to put black dust on the Arctic to block the sun . now the Minister want to put black dust on cloud to block the sun again . be his plan not bonker ? £ 50 million of taxpayer ' s money have be spend , which will only put up energy price even far . this be like conspiracy theory go mad . I feel like we have enter a whacky world . let we keep our eye on the prize . as a country , we be vulnerable because of our exposure to fossil fuel . this Government have one mission alone : to get clean , home - grow power , so that we take back control . Kashmir : increase Tension ( Urgent Question ) : will the Minister make a statement on the killing of 26 people in Pahalgam in Kashmir and the increase tension between India and Pakistan ? the horrific terrorist attack in Pahalgam in Indian - administer Jammu and Kashmir on 22 April be devastating . [ interruption . ] order . member must sit down , because the Minister be on his foot reply . our thought be with those affect , their love one and , of course , the people of India . this attack leave 26 people dead , most of whom , we understand , be tourist travel to the region . follow the attack , India have announce a number of diplomatic measure against Pakistan , and Pakistan have reciprocate . the official UK travel advice for Indian - administer Kashmir continue to advise against all travel to Jammu and Kashmir , except for travel by air to the city of Jammu , travel within the city , and travel within the union territory of Ladakh . this be a very sensitive situation , with real risk to regional and wide stability . understandably , there have be huge interest within UK community . Kashmir have be a flashpoint for conflict between India and Pakistan many time over previous decade . the Prime Minister speak to Prime Minister Modi on 25 April to express his condolence on behalf of the british people . the UK condemn all form of terrorism and the extremism that sustain it , wherever it occur . the Foreign Secretary speak to India ' s External Affairs Minister Jaishankar on 27 April to pass on the UK ' s condolence and to express the UK Government ' s support to the indian people at this difficult time . the Foreign Secretary have also speak over the weekend to Pakistan ' s Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister , Ishaq Dar . heighten tension between India and Pakistan inevitably raise concern about escalation . effective channel of engagement to safeguard stability in the region be essential . the UK support the UN Security Council press statement on 25 April , which condemn the attack and reaffirm that act of terrorism be criminal and unjustifiable . the long - stand position of the UK be that it be for India and Pakistan to find a last resolution to the situation in Kashmir , take into account the wish of the Kashmiri people . it be not for the UK to prescribe a solution . we will continue to monitor the situation closely through our high commissioner in New Delhi and Islamabad . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for allow this question , and I thank the Minister for his statement . I have three further point . first , this be a terrorist attack of the utmost barbarity , and it deserve to be condemn by all . my thought be with the family of those kill . the killing take place in a popular tourist location , and most victim be tourist . among the victim be a man marry only the week before , who be honeymoon with his wife . the manner of the selection of the victim be particularly horrific , with the killer actively seek out non - Muslims before kill they in cold blood . the Minister will be aware that the Kashmir region have be the scene of previous terrorist attack that have claim many innocent life , include in Chittisinghpura , where 35 Sikhs be kill in 2000 . what support can the UK provide to ensure that the terrorist be find and bring to justice , and to ensure that their network of support be dismantle ? secondly , there have be a significant escalation of tension between India and Pakistan , include the measure that the Minister have outline . India and Pakistan have engage in large - scale military hostility in the past in the region , and there be a real risk that the nation could revert to a military conflict again . what can the UK do to encourage a de - escalation of tension , while ensure the eradication of the terrorist organisation and their support network wherever they exist ? finally , the Minister will be aware that there have be protest in the UK outside India and Pakistan ' s high commission . those protest have be characterise by provocative language and gesture , include what appear to be a throat - slit motion by an allege Pakistan official . Windows have be smash at Pakistan ' s high commission in London , and an individual have be arrest and charge . do the Minister recognise the importance of proactive work with community across the UK to ensure that we do not see a downturn in community relation here ? I thank my hon . friend for his engagement on these question . I be sure that the whole House share his horror at the detail of this incident — the targeting of the victim and the way in which it be carry out . first , I will address the scene on UK street . we be aware of report of the video that my hon . friend refer to ; the Metropolitan police be investigate , so I will not provide any further commentary on that particular incident , but it be obviously concern . we take seriously our responsibility for the security of all embassy and high commission under the Vienna convention , so both the pakistani and indian high commission will receive all the support of the UK state to ensure that they stay safe . as my hon . friend have say , and as I know many in this House feel , these issue have long be discuss with passion on british street . we call on all side , all community leader and all involve to call for calm at a time of tension in the region . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the hon . member for Smethwick ( Gurinder Singh Josan ) for secure the question and my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who also request a question on this topic today , for the support he have give to India . my condolence , thought and prayer be with all those affect by the murderous violent terrorism that have take place in Pahalgam . I recognise that for India and the diaspora community — those in the UK in particular — this have be a really difficult week . this be an act of terrorism , and we should call it out for exactly what it be . it be part of a long - stand pattern of attack on civilian , visitor to the region and minority community , and the UK must always stand with our friend during time of this nature . we have a series of long - stand security and counter - terrorism partnership with India , go back to the New Delhi declaration in 2002 and include the India - UK strategic partnership in 2016 , the comprehensive strategic partnership announce in 2022 , and the UK - India 2030 road map agree under the last government . under those partnership , security issue have be absolutely watertight , which be why we must always be in lockstep with our friend in India . can the Minister tell we what information the UK Government have on those responsible for carry out these terrorist attack ? do the Government believe that Lashkar - e - Taiba , the terrorist group proscribe in the UK , bear responsibility ? be the Government aware of any cross - border link to Pakistan among the perpetrator of this terrorist act ? give that attack seem to take place at the same time as high - profile US politician visit India — this be not the first time — do the Government have a view on whether this be a coincidence , or whether it demonstrate a pattern of target and deliberately time attack ? we know that the Prime Minister speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week , but have the UK provide any specific support in response to this terror attack or take any practical step to assist our friend in India ? have the Government undertake an assessment of the security implication of this attack for the UK ? if Lashkar - e - Taiba or a front link to they be responsible , it should be note that disturbing report be emerge that this terrorist group may have have engagement with Hamas . have the Government make an assessment of the relationship between group cause terror and destabilisation in Kashmir and those pursue violence and terrorism that threaten our interest and global peace and security ? finally , can the Minister give an update on the action be take to prevent tension from escalate among community in the UK — include protection for the high commission , which have already be mention — and will the UK leverage its influence to ease tension between India and Pakistan ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . India be a friend to the UK , and we have be clear about the depth of our friendship in our response to this incident . she would not expect I to comment in detail on intelligence and security matter in relation to this attack , but I assure she that we be look at it very closely . she be right that wherever terrorism be find , it be a threat to global peace and security , include in the UK . I will not comment far from this Dispatch Box on link between some of the group that the right hon . Lady have mention , but I assure she that our security agency take these matter very seriously , as she would expect . the right hon . Lady ask important question about the indian high commission . as I say in my early answer , we will offer our full support . there be 24 / 7 enhance protection outside the high commission , and it will be a top priority for the Government to ensure that no harm come to any indian diplomat or , indeed , any other diplomat here in the UK . we be play our role to try to ensure that tension do not escalate . many of we in this House be familiar with the tense and storied history between the two country . we be friend to they both , and we do not want to see an uncontrolled escalation in tension . may I pay my respect to those who have lose love one in the horrific terrorist attack in Indian - administer Jammu and Kashmir ? my thought be with they at this devastating time . many of my constituent have write to I about the escalation of hostility here in the UK . can the Minister say what conversation he be have with indian and pakistani counterpart to address this situation ? this escalation be unsettling for community within the UK . British Pakistanis and British Indians be value part of our community , but we look to all community and faith leader to spread the message that now be the time for come together across religious and ethnic difference , not to play out the tension between two state on the street of the UK , and we will continue to send that message . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate myself with the comment that have already make , reflect on the grief of the community tear apart last week . Tuesday ' s horrific murder be utterly devastating , and those responsible must face the full weight of the law . the escalation of tension between India and Pakistan be alarming , as be report of incident of fire be exchange by soldier at the border , and it threaten to destabilise the entire region . it be vital that leader in both country commit to an open dialogue and wide effort to de - escalate . we hope that that include India commit to reinstate the Indus water treaty , the suspension of which threaten water access for Pakistanis , and Pakistan reopen its airspace to Indian - own airline . the UK must engage with both government and encourage a return to dialogue and a retreat from retaliatory action to ensure that decision take in the wake of Tuesday ' s horrific attack do not endanger more life . can the Minister confirm what conversation he have have with official in New Delhi on reinstate the Indus water treaty and with official in Islamabad on reopen its airspace ? it be vital that effective channel of engagement to safeguard stability in the region exist , and we be encourage both party to that effect . there have be a lot of speculation about the diplomatic measure that have be announce so far . as we understand it , international agreement have be put in abeyance , rather than be rescind . in the long term , the proper functioning of water management in the Indus water catchment area be vital for both side of the line . the whole House be unite in its condemnation of the horrific attack that kill 26 people in Pahalgam , Kashmir . it have rightly be condemn by all in the region , and we must now see a full and independent investigation where those responsible be bring to justice . the response from the Indian Government have be somewhat concern , with unilateral action take to revoke the Indus water treaty , risk the life and livelihood of million in Pakistan . we be now hear report of crackdown in Kashmir , with 1 , 500 people round up by the police and bulldozer tactic use on household . hard - line group have issue statement promise reprisal attack , death threat and action against every Muslim in India . Kashmir continue to be a flashpoint between the two nuclear neighbour , so do the Minister agree that the international community must now seriously focus on de - escalation and long - term peace in the region ? can he also set out what the Government be do to ensure that Kashmiris do not face further persecution or oppression ? this be clearly a time of heighten tension , which inevitably invite concern both in the region and here in the UK . we be , as I say , engage with both state to try to find the most effective way to prevent these terrible incident from ever be repeat , but also to ensure continue stability in the region . I ask at business question last week for a statement on this issue this week , so I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for make sure that we have that statement through this urgent question . the reality of this terrorist attack , which be well organised and well co - ordinate , be that , despite the Minister ' s word , these 26 man who be murder systematically by be shoot in the head be either Hindu or Christian . this be a deliberate islamist attack on those tourist who be just go about their business in a peaceful manner . these terrorist be well equipped , and they be well co - ordinated . the sad reality be that while the Government may offer expression of condolence and support to the people of India , the terrorist basis that exist along the line of control in the part of Kashmir illegally occupy by Pakistan continue to operate across that line of control . will the Government commit to full support for India in apprehend the terrorist responsible and bring the backer of those terrorist to justice ? will the Government take all step to support the erosion and elimination of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir ? the hon . Gentleman have come to have an argument , but I be not sure which part of the statement he do not like . until the investigation be conclude , we should not speculate on the nature of the attack . I say to he that will do everything we can to ensure that those who commit this horrific attack be bring to justice , and India will have our support in that . I share in the comment make in this House . we be horrify by this terrorist attack , and my thought be with the family , the victim and those in India . we have see worrying scene play out in London , as my hon . friend the Member for Smethwick ( Gurinder Singh Josan ) mention . we can not let the situation escalate on to UK shore . we all bear a responsibility to help de - escalate tension . what step be the UK take to support international body , especially the United Nations , in their call for a de - escalation in tension ? as I have say , we have speak at the senior level to both state , and we have make clear the importance of maintain stability in the region at this time . I echo the word of condemnation over the horrific terror attack in Pahalgam , which take the life of 26 innocent tourist . I express my heartfelt condolence to all those who have be affect . the rapid escalation of event follow this tragedy have be deeply worrying . India ' s unfounded claim against Pakistan be a dangerous and irresponsible reaction to the tragedy suffer in Kashmir . the unilateral and illegal decision to suspend the Indus water treaty threaten to cut the lifeline of 200 million people in Pakistan , and it can not stand . will the Minister join I in express concern over the knife - edge position that these two nation be in and call for adherence to the guidance set under international body of law ? will he make a plea to calm the situation ? if it be exacerbate , it will have severe consequence that spread much far than that region alone . I think I have set out our view on the importance of stability in the region already this afternoon . I agree with the hon . member that it be critical for all actor and international partner to ensure the long - term sustainability of the Indus river system . I welcome the statement from the Minister today . in light of the awful terror attack in Indian - administer Kashmir , what work be the Government undertaking to consult the Kashmiri diaspora here in the UK and identify their concern ? both the Foreign Office and other UK Government Departments engage regularly with the british Kashmiri community — who be an important part of so many community across the United Kingdom — and will continue to do so . I be sure the Government recognise that the strategic aim of this sort of terrorist atrocity be to provoke indiscriminate retaliation and undermine peaceful relation between neighbouring country between which there may be some history of hostility . will the Minister impress on the Indian Government the necessity of focus on the actual perpetrator and not on the wide community , and will he impress on the Pakistani Government the importance , in good faith , of track down those responsible ? too often in the region for which I be responsible , and indeed in this country , we have see terrorist attack design to have exactly the effect that the right hon . Gentleman have describe , namely to provoke tension , intercommunal hostility and a breakdown of law and order . as he say , a proper , law - enforcement - lead response base on a focus on the actual perpetrator be important in this area , as it be throughout the world . may I first send my condolence , thought and prayer to all the victim of this heinous terrorist attack in occupy Kashmir ? there be a large Kashmiri diaspora in my constituency , and many of my constituent have reach out to I express deep concern . a number of they have mention the Indus water treaty . Pakistan have already be suffer from the effect of flood in past year , from which it have not recover . at time of escalation and trouble such as this it seem to be community at large , be they in India or Pakistan , who suffer . what message can the Minister give my constituent to reassure they that the UK be do all it can to de - escalate , bring thing back to normal and hold the perpetrator to account ? we be focus on hold the perpetrator to account . I be familiar with the issue face Pakistan in relation to acute natural disaster : I be there during the disastrous flood in 2010 , and I recognise the importance of the Indus river system in both India and Pakistan and of co - operation between the two state to manage that vital system . there be a great deal of speculation about what have be decide and what have be agree , but we understand that diplomatic treaty be be hold in abeyance and that there be still space for a long - term answer to some of these question . as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on British Hindus , and with a constituency that contain a considerable indian and pakistani community , I be especially shock and sadden by the news of the horrific murder of 26 people last Tuesday , and I have receive many email from constituent raise their own concern . of particular concern be report of the targeting of Hindus and Christians : such race - base terror be unacceptable anywhere in the world . what step be the Government take to encourage both India and Pakistan to investigate these terrible crime , and to ensure that line of communication be keep open to avoid a further escalation of the conflict ? we be encourage direct line of communication , and we be of course encourage Pakistan to provide all possible assistance with the investigation of these horrific crime . may I associate myself with the comment of the Minister and other member who have condemn the killing of 26 innocent people ? give that tension between India and Pakistan be run high and result in arrest , do the Minister agree with I , and with other who have raise the point , that we must not let this issue boil over into our street ? if anything , we should be work to convey a message of peace and hope to that part of the world . in the light of the tit - for - tat action be undertake by Pakistan and India , do the Minister also agree that we need to encourage the holding of an open , independent inquiry to establish the fact , ensure accountability and help to restore calm ? that would be far well for the world than India and Pakistan — nuclear power — go to war . my hon . friend be , of course right : peace and calm be vital for community here and across the world . the two state be talk to each other , which be welcome . India ' s concern for its own security be understandable in the light of such a horrific incident . it be clearly take step to try to establish the fact as good it can , and it will have british support to do so . at a time of such tragedy , language be incredibly important . all of we , in all part of the House , condemn this terrorist incident , but a number of my constituent have be particularly concerned about the BBC ' s describe it as " militance " rather than as what it be — a terrorist attack . will the Minister use his position to make representation to the BBC to ensure that it understand the importance of the language it use ? I resist call for Ministers to police the BBC ' s language too much , but let I be clear : this be a horrific terrorist attack , and that be the view of the British Government . we have see the Kargil incursion , the Chittisinghpura attack , the hijacking of Air India Flight 814 , the attack on Gandhinagar , the attack on the Lok Sabah itself , the attack on the Taj Hotel in Mumbai and the suicide bomb attack at Pulwama that kill 44 people , and now 26 tourist have be murder at Pahalgam . that be just a short list of the activity of Pakistan - base terror organisation such as Jaish - e - Mohammad , Lashkar - e - Taiba and its derivative , include the Resistance Front , that have take place since you and I be first elect to the House , Mr Speaker . they destabilise international security between two nuclear state , and cause unwarranted tension in community relation here . be it not time to make the support that we give to Pakistan conditional on its finally deal with and close down the terrorist training camp that it harbour ? we expect all our friend to work closely on the share international scourge of terrorism . Pakistan itself have face a series of deeply damaging terrorist attack in recent month and year , and we press Pakistan , as we press all our ally in the region , to take the step that be necessary to investigate not only the terrorist threat that face it , but those that face its neighbour . I share the sentiment that have rightly be express by all other member . it be crucial to condemn unequivocally all form of violence irrespective of their source , and our thought and prayer be with the victim and their family . the recent incident be a stark reminder of the fragile peace that hang by a thread in a region that have suffer for too long from recur cycle of violence . the intricate history of Kashmir require a diplomatic approach underpin by international co - operation do the Minister agree that the role of the UK , as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council , must be to encourage and support effort that prioritise dialogue and reconciliation between India and Pakistan ? do he also agree that the law - abide people of Kashmir deserve to live in peace and security without the shadow of perpetual conflict , and that will be achieve only if they have the right of self - determination ? of course the people of Kashmir , both Indian - administer and Pakistani - administer , have the right to live in safety , and we want to see that right exercise ; and of course there must be dialogue between India and Pakistan at this time of heighten tension . let I add , however , that in the face of such a horrific attack , India also have the right to investigate , to find the perpetrator and to bring they to justice for these terrible crime . a number of my constituent have express deep concern about the development in Kashmir , and we all condemn the attack and grow tension in the strong possible term . do the Minister agree that advocate for a peaceful resolution in Kashmir be also part of maintain community cohesion in the UK , give that so many of we have constituent with family member and friend in the region ? I do , of course . the UK support a peaceful resolution of the long - stand issue in Kashmir between India and Pakistan . it be a matter for the two country and we will support they in those endeavour . I join Members across the House in condemn this act of terrorism . the hon . Gentleman will know that his party ' s manifesto pledge to pursue a new strategic partnership with India . I welcome that , but could he explain to the House what step be be make in regard to that pledge ? it will be by concert diplomatic effort , but it will also be by leadership from the Dispatch Box around re - characterise our commitment to India , that people will gain strength from this Government ' s response . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give I the opportunity to cast away any doubt there might be . we stand with India in the face of this horrific attack . we have , at the very high level , be in direct contact with the Indian Government . this be an absolutely atrocious incident and they have our support in try to bring the perpetrator to justice . if he will forgive I , I will leave it to the Minister responsible for India to provide an update in the House in slow time on the state of our relationship . it continue to grow from strength to strength . in light of the recent tragic attack on civilian in Kashmir , which we all condemn , what step be the Government take to de - escalate tension , and to urge the government of India and Pakistan to engage in a transparent and impartial investigation to establish the fact , while also push forward a new diplomatic engagement to address all outstanding issue , include the core dispute of Kashmir , through meaningful dialogue and a commitment to peace that prioritise the life and right of all Kashmiris ? as I say early , we have be engage with both government . the long - stand position of the UK be that it be for India and Pakistan to find a last resolution to the situation in Kashmir . it must take into account the wish of the Kashmiri people and it be not for we to prescribe a solution . we will continue in those effort . the Minister outline that the Government have be in communication with both India and Pakistan , and the risk of escalation . give that risk , have the Foreign Secretary be in communication with any other regional power , such as China ? honestly , I have not speak to the Foreign Secretary in the past 24 hour so I be not totally sure , but I will write to the hon . member and let he know . I , too , associate myself with the condolence for the innocent family who have become victim of this appalling attack . it be important that there be an evidence - base investigation and I hope that , from what the Minister have say , Pakistan be assist India in identify the perpetrator and ensure they be bring to justice . tension be certainly high , both within India and Pakistan . I appreciate the Minister ' s remark on the assistance be provide at the moment , but can this be use as an opportunity to also look at the long - term issue that Kashmir have face for decade ? I set out the Government ' s position on the core dispute in Kashmir in the previous answer . I repeat that we encourage the Pakistanis to co - operate fully with the Indian Government in their effort to investigate and we hope that they will provide assistance . this obviously remain a time of great heighten tension , so direct dialogue on these issue be particularly important . I join the Minister and other member in my unequivocal condemnation of this heinous and cowardly act of terrorist violence . my heart go out to the family and the victim . we stand in full solidarity with they , as well as with the civilian population of India , Kashmir and wide Pakistan . as have be highlight , the killing have heighten tension in the subcontinent . at present , both nuclear - armed country , India and Pakistan , be on a war footing . the escalation in military action will have ramification globally , especially in the UK where reactionary bigot and far - right politician be sow division among British Kashmiris , Indians and Pakistanis . my Kashmiri diaspora and my indian family and friend and I would like to know what specific step the UK Government be take to help de - escalate the heighten tension in the region and the increase tension within our border . as I say , we be seek to play our full diplomatic role to help manage the heighten tension between India and Pakistan , and the concern of the region . it be vital that all of we in position of influence at a community level here in the UK do everything we can to ensure that those tension do not play out on british street . many of my constituent have contact I in the past few day to register their horror at the appalling terror attack in Kashmir . I join the Minister in condemn it unequivocally . will he confirm that the UK stand firm against terror in any form ? will he far confirm what step the Government be take to support our long history of community cohesion in the diverse constituency of this country , such as Ealing Southall ? I can confirm that we stand against terrorism in all its manifestation . we will be work closely with all community , include through colleague in this House , to try to address the concern that be be raise . one of the consequence of mass immigration and radical diversity at home be that we see foreign conflict play out among diaspora community in Britain . we should all do everything possible to stop this domestic disintegration , include drastically curtail immigration , but will the Minister take this opportunity to tell member of this House who have play the politic of communalism to stop play with fire ? I think the hon . Gentleman ' s question be : will I condemn the existence of British indian and british pakistani community ? no , I win ' t . there be tension between those community and I have call for calm . if he be ask I whether I think there have be too much immigration over the last 14 year , yes indeed — [ interruption . ] I be very happy to take guidance from Mr Speaker on what the question be . I thank the Minister for his statement . I would also like to associate myself with the condemnation of this horrific and cowardly attack on innocent people . Ilford South be home to a large diaspora of indian and pakistani descent . follow the horrific murder of the 26 tourist , whose only crime be be in the wrong place at the wrong time when the terrorist orchestrate their heinous attack , India point the finger at Pakistan and Pakistan deny any involvement . both be nuclear power . what step be the Government take to de - escalate this particular situation ? as I have say , we have be engage with both state extensively over the past few day . we be take all the step we can to ensure that heighten tension do not lead to the risk of uncontrolled escalation . many of my constituent have be hit hard by the recent massacre in Kashmir . the perpetrator of the massacre must face the full force of the law . an open dialogue between India and Pakistan be now vital to avoid an escalation of tension over Kashmir . how be the Government work to support effort to de - escalate and to prevent cross - border exchange escalate into a full - blow conflict ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his important question . we will continue to work with both state on the issue he outline in the way I have describe over the course of the afternoon . it be our common humanity that unite many of we in this House in our condemnation of a terrorist act and our condolence to the family affect , whether they have community link to this country or not . I hear what the Minister say , and I support entirely his call for an investigation , as many member do . what be trouble my british constituent who have family in the Kashmir region be the word of the Indian Defence Minister , who have say there will be a " strong response " in the come day . in previous crisis moment , we have have missile strike , airstrike and special force action from the Indian Government , and we have see an explosion in anti - muslim attack in India in the past couple of day . what word of reassurance can the Minister offer my british constituent , who be concerned about human right around the world and concerned about family member , that this Government will always speak up for innocent civilian , wherever they may live and wherever they may find friend ? my hon . friend make an important point . we do , of course , stand up for human right around the world , and we will continue our work to try to address heighten tension between India and Pakistan . we want to avoid a dangerous spiral of escalation in the region . it be incumbent on we as an international community to engage with leader on both side . what have the Minister and the UK Government do so far to promote an open dialogue specifically and to ensure it stay open ? as I say , we have speak at a senior level to both Governments and we be encourage direct contact , which we understand be in place . my constituent , particularly those from the Kashmiri and pakistani community , strongly condemn this terrorist atrocity in Pahalgam . they be also worried about India ' s response , in particular its suspension of the Indus water treaty , but also the bulldozing of home of those not connect to this attack in any way . do the Minister agree that the Kashmiri people should not be subject to collective punishment , as the people of Palestine have be in Israel ? as I hope have be clear in all my answer , a terrible terrorist attack have be perpetrate , and India have our full support in go after the perpetrator of that attack . we do , of course , expect all our partner to do that in accordance with their domestic standard and law . I thank the Minister for his answer to the question and for the calm way he have respond , which be appreciate in this House . I travel to the region in question some four or five year ago as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief ; there be tension then , and there be great tension now , in every sense of the word . the slaughter of tourist in that idyllic meadow in Kashmir can never be see as anything other than pure , unadulterated evil : people be kill simply because they be Hindus or Christians . our thought and prayer be with the family who mourn their love one today . what step can the Minister take to provide support for the Government to deal with terrorism , and how can we get the message to british citizen that they should under no circumstance whatsoever travel to that region ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I will reiterate our travel advice : we advise against all travel to Jammu and Kashmir except for travel by air to the city of Jammu , travel within the city of Jammu and travel within the union territory of Ladakh . People in India and around the world be horrify last week by the news of the terror attack in which 26 innocent tourist be kill in Jammu and Kashmir . my thought be with all those who have lose love one . this be an appalling attack , aim clearly at destabilise the situation in Kashmir . in my constituency , I have large pakistani , indian and Kashmiri community , and many of my constituent be now very concerned about an escalation of tension in the region . how be the british Government work with the Indian Government to provide support in the wake of this terror attack , and what more can the Minister say about the constructive role Britain must play in find a diplomatic resolution ? my hon . friend reflect the strength of feeling in her constituency , as in so many of the constituency represent in this House . we will continue to play our full diplomatic role , and we welcome the effort of my hon . friend and many colleague across this House in engage right across the spectrum of their constituency . the Kashmiri community in Stoke - on - Trent will have condemn the appalling atrocity take place last Tuesday , but that condemnation will have quickly turn to fear and anxiety about what it mean for their friend and love one in both the India and Pakistan - administer side of Kashmir . I have listen carefully to the Minister ' s answer on the Government ' s position that this be now an issue for India and Kashmir to resolve alone , and I welcome the action the Government be take to reduce tension . however , in the long term , a peaceful settlement for this community will need help and need international facilitation , per UN resolution 39 and 47 . self - determination for the people of Kashmir be go to take more than warm word from Ministers . can the Minister therefore set out what action he will take through the UN and his counterpart in other country to ensure that we start to move down the path of peace quickly ? my hon . friend be a doughty advocate for his constituent in voice their concern . the long - stand position of the United Kingdom be that it be for India and Pakistan to find a last resolution to the situation in Kashmir , take into account the wish of the Kashmiri people . it be not for we to prescribe a solution . like many colleague in this House , I be appal by the terrorist attack in Kashmir , and my heart go out to the victim and their loved one . what really worry I now be the hatred , threat and incitement we have see online since the attack , which I know be deeply unsettling for many of my constituent . do the Minister agree that the incitement of hatred online be completely unacceptable , and can he share what measure the Government be take to monitor and act against it ? we be aware of hatred be incite online in relation to event in the region , and we condemn it utterly . where the threshold be meet for police action , it should be take . I share the horror at this despicable act of terrorism inflict on 26 innocent people , many of whom be on holiday — one young man be on his honeymoon . my condolence be with all those affect . the ripple be widespread and feel by the global indian community , include my constituent in Winchburgh . they have raise their concern with I about this incident , but they be also really fearful of what happen next . can the Minister give my constituent assurance that the Government will work with international partner to support peace and stability in the region , and that community cohesion will remain a top priority for this Government ? India and Pakistan be our friend . we have historical connection to both state and to community right across the region , and we will continue to be commit to regional stability . of course , we also call for calm on our own street . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Smethwick ( Gurinder Singh Josan ) on secure this urgent question , but I do say to the Minister that this really should have be a statement . we be all horrify by the act of terror that we see just day ago and condemn it without equivocation . I have hear from many of my constituent from both diaspora in recent day , and it be important to note that many people be feel this act of terror deeply in my community , and up and down the United Kingdom . India and Pakistan be two very important member of the Commonwealth . can the Minister specifically outline what engagement the British Government have have with the Commonwealth to help to reduce tension ? if my hon . friend would like a statement , he can stay for 45 minute and he will get another one from I . we have be in direct contact with both India and Pakistan , and we will continue to do so . I thank the Minister for his condolence and for his strong condemnation of this horrific terror attack . in recent day , I have be contact by hundred of family in my constituency who have be horrify by these event . it be clear that the awful terror attack in Kashmir have send shockwave through the British indian community and the global Hindu community more broadly . my constituent have speak overwhelmingly of justice , and understandably so . we all want to see peace and de - escalation , but understand that people will be hold to account for these horrific crime be vital to get there . I would just like to press the Minister a little more to be clear that the UK Government , when they stand with India , be do all they can to identify the party responsible for these event and those who support and fund they , so that they can be hold to account and justice can be find . of course , we want to see the perpetrator hold to justice properly , and we will be support India to do so . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . early , I ask the Minister to tell member of the House who be play the politic of communalism to stop play with fire . he not only fail to do so , but attack I for observe the undoubted tension and sometimes even violence that take place here as foreign conflict be play out in this country . can you advise I on whether the Minister can withdraw this attack ? if he simply misheard my question , can he be allow to answer it now ? this be a very serious issue . Minister , would you like to respond ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . as I understand the question , the hon . Gentleman be suggest that there have be too much immigration from , presumably , both India and Pakistan over the last period , and that that be lead to communalism within constituency across the country . this government — [ interruption . ] order . the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) be not go to carry on speak from a sedentary position . I have be absolutely clear from this Dispatch Box that I do not want to see any communal tension in the UK . I have repeatedly call for calm . if the hon . Gentleman be say that he believe that too much immigration have lead to these — [ interruption . ] order . obviously , we be not go to get anywhere like this . sit down , Minister . I be not responsible for the answer that the Minister make . I be sure that this matter will not rest there , but it will have to rest for now because we be move on to the next urgent question . Irish Republican Alleged Incitement ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department if she will make a statement on the alleged incitement to murder member of Parliament by the irish republican group Kneecap . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his urgent question . let we never forget that we lose two member of this House , Jo Cox and Sir David Amess , in tragic circumstance . both Jo and Sir David be passionate advocate for their constituent , and they care deeply about a range of issue and embody the fine democratic quality , tradition and value of this House . I know that the thought of the whole House will be with their family today and every day . I want to reiterate the Home Secretary ' s word and fully condemn the comment that have be make . such remark be dangerous and irresponsible , and this Government utterly reject the view express by this group . let I be crystal clear : political intimidation and abuse have no place in our society . I know that the House will want immediate answer on this issue , but as the Minister of State for Policing and Crime Prevention say yesterday , in relation to the urgent question on the Headingley case , the desire for immediate answer be often constrain by the obligation that we have , as Ministers and as member of this House , not to do or say anything that would interfere in what be a live police investigation . as member know , the investigation and prosecution of criminal offence be matter for the police and the Crown Prosecution Service to determine , and they be operationally independent of the Government . it be important that the police be allow to carry out their ongoing investigation free from political interference . however , for the benefit of the House , let I recap what the Metropolitan police have themselves say about these report . they say : " we have be make aware of the video and it have be refer to the counter - terrorism internet referral unit for assessment and to determine whether any further police investigation may be require . " although I will not comment far on this specific case , the safety and security of member of this House , and all those who serve in elect office , be an issue to which I attach the utmost seriousness , as do the Home Secretary and as do you , Mr Speaker . elect representative at all level and across all party must be able to perform their duty safely and without fear , and , through the defend democracy taskforce , we be drive a whole - of - government effort to ensure that that be the case . the taskforce have recently agree a programme of work to tackle the harassment and intimidation of elect member . the taskforce be also support the Speaker ' s Conference that be address these issue . those of we who attend this place be all too aware of the devastating consequence of violence against our colleague and friend . we may not always agree , but if there be one universal truth to which we would all subscribe it be surely that our politic be well when it be conduct respectfully and safely . I hope and trust that that will have the support of Members right across the House . the Home Secretary and I condemn the comment that have be make and we will work tirelessly to ensure the safety and security of all those who step forward to serve in public office . two mp — Jo Cox and Sir David Amess — have be murder within the past decade , in the line of duty while meet their constituent . frankly , that could have be any of we . I should like to ask the Home Secretary , albeit in absentia , four specific question . first , how long be this counter - terrorist police inquiry likely to take ? the video plainly speak for itself . how could the word " kill your local MP " possibly have be take out of context ? secondly , we now know that Kneecap apply for a £ 14 , 000 government grant , during the previous Parliament , which be veto , quite rightly , by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) . Kneecap then appeal against this decision as " discriminatory " . the incoming Labour Government conclude that fight the appeal would be " not in the public interest . " can the Home Secretary tell the House which Government Minister approve that absurd decision to effectively surrender to Kneecap over this , and why ? thirdly , Kneecap be still book to appear at Glastonbury — the organiser of which , incidentally , receive some £ 1 . 5 million of taxpayer subsidy during the covid pandemic . do the Home Secretary agree that it would be unconscionable for Kneecap to appear , at least while the police inquiry be under way ? Kneecap should surely be bar today . to be crystal clear , do the Government agree with that — yes or no ? finally , Kneecap have now offer a " crocodile tear " apology to Katie Amess . have that family not be through enough already ? so , as it be within her gift , will the Home Secretary now seriously reconsider their request to examine potential failure by Prevent that may have contribute to David ' s death , via the auspex of the Southport inquiry ? be that not the least we can do ? thank you , Mr Speaker . I be genuinely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring forward this matter , because it provide we with an opportunity to discuss these issue , which be something I have be keen to do for some time . let I gently say to he that he mention the name of the band on a number of occasion . I deliberately do not do so , and I will not do so . it be for right hon . and hon . member to choose what language they use , but my advice be not to give the band or its member any further publicity by name they . I will not be do so and I suggest that other member do not either . the right hon . Member speak about the Home Secretary . let I tell he what she say about this . she say that this be a " total disgrace " . she say : " it ' s dangerous and irresponsible to say these sort of thing , and I hope that everybody involve — not just the band but also those involve surround they and those involve in event — also take some responsibility on this and look very seriously at the consequence of these kind of remark , not just what ' s be say . " let I also say to the right hon . Gentleman that I chair the defend democracy taskforce . clearly , the Home Secretary have overall responsibility , but the judgment be that I would be here as the person who chair the taskforce , but we both , of course , take the matter incredibly seriously . he ask about the length of the investigation . as I know he will understand , that be a matter not for Ministers but for the Metropolitan police . he also ask about the funding of the group . let I say again , gently and respectfully , that I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the case relate to the group ' s funding . I do not raise this point proactively ; I refer to it now only in response to his specific question . the truth of the matter be that we inherit this situation from the previous Government . we inherit the scheme and we inherit this situation . after approve the grant , the previous Government then u - turn on it be give . they do not take proper legal advice and end up in a costly legal battle that they lose . this Government have a duty to bring that situation to an end and protect taxpayer ' money . we be deeply concerned about all the thing that make up this case . as the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport say yesterday , that be precisely why we be rightly take the opportunity to review the scheme now . the right hon . Gentleman ask about Glastonbury . it be for the organiser of the festival to decide who appear . Cop out ! if the right hon . Gentleman can be patient , he will hear the entirety of my response . it be not for Government Ministers to say who be go to appear at Glastonbury ; it be for the organiser of the festival . as I have say , there be a live police investigation ongoing , so the Government urge the organiser of Glastonbury to think very carefully about who be invite to perform there later this year . for reason that I completely understand and appreciate , the right hon . Gentleman mention the Amess family . our thought and prayer continue to be with the Amess family , as they be with the family of Jo Cox . the House will be aware , because I have speak about it previously , that we have publish the Prevent learning review to ensure that there be public scrutiny and transparency over the perpetrator ' s dealing with Prevent . we will also publish the finding from Lord Anderson ' s review . the Home Secretary and I want to ensure that every avenue have be explore . that be why we will appoint a senior figure to scrutinise all of the previous review that have take place , to see whether any question still need to be answer or any issue still need to be address . we will act as necessary if any such gap be identify as a result of that process . I thank the Minister for his answer to the urgent question . nobody but those in my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) know what it be actually like when somebody kill your MP . the reverberation be still be feel in Southend West and Leigh three and a half year later by the constituent , never mind the family of Sir David Amess , who will never recover from the loss . do my hon . friend agree that those in the public eye — anyone , in fact , but especially those in the public eye — should be careful with their word , because word have power and can be incredibly dangerous . we should condemn with all force the type of incitement we have see from this particular group . I be grateful to my hon . friend for the remark he have make , and not just today but previously . I totally agree ; he be absolutely right that word have consequence . all of we , both in and outside this House , should treat other with respect and dignity . I join my hon . friend in condemn the word that have be use , and I give he and the House my categorical assurance that we will do everything we possibly can to ensure the safety and security of all who serve in elect office . I call the shadow Home Secretary . our thought today be with our dear friend Sir David Amess and Jo Cox . they be brutally murder on a surgery Friday do their job on behalf of their constituent . tragically , they be not the first mps to be murder ; the crest of Airey Neave be up there above the door , with those of Sir David and Jo behind I . those who incite the murder of mp be attack democracy itself . will the Minister join I in condemn unreservedly the despicable evil that Kneecap represent in the appalling comment they make ? I would like to ask about the funding . in November 2024 , the Department for Business and Trade decide to end its support for the legal challenge — a decision that result in the band win and become entitle to the money . why do the Government make that decision ? in the light of what we now know , will they appeal against that decision ? critically , will the Minister give categoric assurance from the Dispatch Box that this band will never , under any circumstance , receive public money again from any source , include the National Lottery and Northern Ireland Screen ? this organisation have also express support for Hamas and Hezbollah , which be proscribe terrorist group . the Minister say that he do not want to comment on the police investigation . however , the Government comment quite extensively on the investigation after Southport , so I would like he to make clear , as the Government do last summer , that they consider it in the public interest that the police investigate and , if there be evidence , prosecute these offence or potential offence . if he be not willing to do that now , he risk the perception of two - tier justice . finally , I have a meeting very recently with Sir David ' s widow Julia and his daughter Katie , who bear an enormous burden of grief . they want to make sure that the lesson be learn from Sir David ' s murder . as the Minister know , the perpetrator have be in the Prevent programme previously , like the perpetrator in Reading and Southport . Julia and Katie Amess would like Sir David ' s murderer and the failing of Prevent to be look at alongside the Southport case , which be be investigate , and the Reading case . will the Minister honour his memory by agree to that today ? I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for his remark . he be right that when a threat be make to a Member of this House or anyone who serve in elect office it be an attack not just on that individual but on our democracy . that be precisely why this Government have place , as the last Government do , so much emphasis and importance on the work of the defend democracy taskforce . the right hon . Member will know from his time in government that the taskforce be the fulcrum on which all the different bit of Government join together , ensure that our response to the threat we face be properly organise and that the resource be marshal correctly and appropriately . it be how we enable all those who wish to serve in public life to do so without fear of the completely unacceptable attack we have see in recent year . I agree with he on that , and I hope it be a matter on which we can all agree . I also agree with his point about the remark themselves . I will not name the band , but I reiterate that the Government unreservedly condemn the remark that have be make . the shadow Home Secretary ask specifically about funding . in my early response I give detail about the sequencing of the funding that be agree under the previous Government . he ask about future funding , so let I be clear with the House : we do not think that individual express the view we have hear should be receive taxpayer funding . that be a non - controversial thing to say . as the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport say yesterday , official be review the music export growth scheme in the light of the comment that have emerge . I would add — the right hon . Member will probably agree — that it seem strange to I , and I be sure to other Members of the House , that a republican group who be seemingly opposed to the British Government would want to receive funding from they . I find that baffle . the right hon . member mention proscription and Hamas and Hezbollah ; he know well that those be proscribe organisation . it be a criminal offence to belong to , invite support for , recklessly express support for or arrange a meeting in support of a proscribe organisation . it be also an offence to wear clothing , carry article in public or publish an image of clothing or any article in a way that arouse reasonable suspicion that an individual be a member or a supporter of a proscribe organisation . the Government be crystal clear : support for proscribe organisation be wholly unacceptable , and where an offence have be commit , the Government trust that the police will use the full extent of the offence available to they . the right hon . member ' s final point be about Lady Amess and Katie Amess . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will take comfort from the response I give to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) about the seriousness with which we address these issue . I be acutely conscious that we have with we in the Chamber a member of Jo Cox ' s family , and it be right that we conduct ourselves in a way — as we be — that remember the loss that the family have suffer , and that this House have suffer . the Government will do everything we possibly can to ensure that those family be support and those terrible event never occur again . it be disappointing to see how Conservative member have approach this question . I would have hope that this be an issue on which the whole House could remain united . the way in which it have be approach be to be regret . I have no desire to pour cold water on the daft political posturing of adolescent give voice in pop music — that have be go on for decade and be somewhat of a rite of passage — but the comment of this band go far beyond what be remotely acceptable in a civilised country . will the Minister therefore please use his good office to look to minimise the number of mainstream platform — not just Glastonbury — across the board on which this band appear ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . he be absolutely right about the comment that have be make ; we unreservedly condemn they . he make a point that I want to raise about the importance of the way in which we work co - operatively and collaboratively across the House . I chair the defend democracy taskforce on behalf of the Government , but I also chair it on behalf of all member of this House and the other House and on behalf of those who serve in local government . my approach have always be , and will always be , to work co - operatively with every political party . I be happy at any point to meet any Member or any political party to discuss these matter . my door be always open . on the point my hon . Friend make about the profile of the band , he will have hear my word with regard to Glastonbury . that be specifically why I be not name they — I do not want to give they any further publicity — but I agree with the sentiment of his point . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the remark by member of the band be completely unacceptable , and it be right that they have apologise to the family of Sir David Amess and Jo Cox , but clearly those comment should never have be make in the first place . incitement to violence against member of Parliament cut to the very heart of our democracy . the reality be that two mp have be murder in the last decade . it be absolutely right that the authority be look into other comment relate to encourage support for proscribe terror organisation . I want to look at what more the Government can do . what criterion do the Home Office apply when assess whether artist or performer be promote harmful or extremist rhetoric , particularly where there be a clear attempt to provoke public outrage ? what assessment have the Minister make of the impact that comment like these may have on community cohesion ? I be grateful to the hon . member , as I always be , for the sensible and reasonable way in which she frame her remark . she be absolutely right . incitement to violence be utterly unacceptable in any context , and it be completely unacceptable in the context of member of this House and other elect politician . that be why the Prime Minister recently refresh the mandate of the defend democracy taskforce , and that be why , as chair of that taskforce , I be work closely with law enforcement , all Government Departments , the Electoral Commission and a range of different organisation , include the police , to ensure that right around the country we have the most coherent , join - up and properly resource response . back at the general election last year , I be sure all of we see thing that we consider completely unacceptable . it be my ambition as the chair , and that of the Government , to ensure that electoral event — I be conscious that we be work through one at the moment — be fight in a way that enable and encourage reasonable and robust debate . it be absolutely right that in the cut and thrust of politic there should be the rough and tumble of debate , but I think instinctively we all know where the line be draw , and this incident go mile over where the line should be draw . we will continue to look carefully at the circumstance of this case . as I say , it be ultimately for the police to make an operational decision about where they want to go with it , but I give the hon . member an assurance that through the DDTF we take these matter incredibly seriously . I would be happy to work even more closely with she , her colleague and all member of the House in that endeavour . may I take a moment to thank the Speaker ' s Office for the support it give new mp to ensure that we all feel safe ? I thank the Minister for his response to the urgent question and equally for his commitment to ensure that Members of the House feel safe and secure in their work . do he agree that when we think about the security of MPs we must also consider the safety of mps ' staff ? I think about the staff who work in my constituency and do their job solely because they want to help people in my constituency . they should never feel intimidated or unsafe . I be grateful to my hon . friend , who make some really important point . I join he in thank Mr Speaker , the Deputy Speakers and all the Speaker ' s Office for the work they do with the Parliamentary Security Department in ensure that all member of the House be safe and secure . the Speaker ' s Conference into these matter be an important process that the Government be support . a couple of week ago , I give evidence to Mr Speaker along with the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , who be responsible for election . we consider the process to be hugely valuable , and we look forward to Mr Speaker ' s conclusion . we will want to work closely with he on implement the finding . my hon . friend be absolutely right to reference MPs ' staff . all of we will know that often where the rubber hit the road in our constituency be the extraordinary , dedicated work be do on our behalf by our office manager , our parliamentary assistant and our parliamentary caseworker . they be absolutely in my thought when I think about these matter . the Bridger network around the country be there for they as well as for member of the House . it be worth add that in addition to member and their staff , we need to ensure that our family member be properly protect . I have be in recent touch with the police specifically about incident that have occur on a couple of occasion at member ’ home address . that be totally unacceptable . I have write to the police constructively to remind they of the power they have in that regard . I know that the Minister will agree that part of the service that my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) have do the House today be that he have give we all the opportunity to make a point that really should not need make , namely that incitement to violence against Members of Parliament be no more acceptable than incitement to violence against any other member of our society . the Minister be entirely right to be cautious about prejudice an investigation into whether the criminal law have be break , but do he agree that what we can and should say today be that artistic licence be not a defence to a breach of the criminal law ? I agree with the right hon . gentleman on both count . the concern be not just the glorification of violence against mps , and the impact that have on the family of mp who have be murder in terrorist incident , include Jo Cox and Sir David Amess ; the same band have express support for Hamas and Hezbollah , which be proscribe group , and that have an impact on the feeling of safety and security in the jewish community . the rhetoric that the band use represent a return to an ugly rhetoric about communal difference in Northern Ireland — a return that I know will cause fear and pain to hon . member from Northern Ireland who lose friend and colleague due to terrorism . my main concern , however , be about the impact on democracy as a whole . call for violence against politician of any party have a chilling effect on the willingness of any normal citizen to think , " I could run for council , " or " I could run to be an MP . " they think that they will put themselves and their family at threat of violence . do the Minister agree that it be vital for the future of democracy in this country that people feel that they can engage in public life without put their life and safety in danger ? my hon . Friend make two really important point . I completely agree with his remark at the beginning of his question . he be also absolutely right to raise concern about the chilling effect that there could well be on our democracy . I be sure that all of we in this place know exceptional people who , for reason that we all understand , have decide not to step forward to serve in public life . this House , local council and police and crime commissioner be not get people who could otherwise make a significant contribution to public life . it be a tragedy for our country that some people might feel that they should not step forward because of the risk , pressure , harassment and intimidation that go with service in public life . that be precisely why we take the defend democracy taskforce so seriously , and be work with colleague across Government , in local government and in the devolved administration to ensure that people do not feel that politics be too dangerous for they . it would be terrible for our country if we get to that point . I be absolutely determined , as be the Home Secretary , to make sure that the defend democracy taskforce be as successful as possible in ensure that nobody feel that they do not want to step forward because of the risk . may I thank the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) for make that reference ? although it be natural that we refer to Jo Cox and Sir David Amess , it be important for member of this House to recognise that there be also four plaque in this Chamber for Ian Gow , Airey Neave , Robert Bradford and Sir Anthony Berry , all of whom be murder by the irish republican antecedent to Kneecap . over the last 24 hour , we have see crocodile tear and hear confected apology and whataboutery , but nothing can be say that will mask the naked hatred within those individual whose balaclavas have slip . I have hear the Minister speak about his defend democracy taskforce and his aspiration for coherency across this United Kingdom on the glorification of terrorism . for far too long , a blind eye have be turn to the glorification of terrorism in Northern Ireland . when confine to Northern Ireland , it apparently seem to be quite acceptable , yet it keep the wound of our past open and frustrate reconciliation . to my mind , there be no coherency on the application of law to prevent the glorification of terrorism in Northern Ireland . will the Minister meet my colleague and I to ensure that there be ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that , and he be absolutely right to refer to all the plaque in this Chamber . we think about all those who have lose their life serve our country . the right hon . Gentleman may be aware that I be in Northern Ireland recently , where I meet the Justice Minister to discuss this and other matter . he may also be aware that in the autumn of last year , I write to the leader of all the Northern Ireland political party , offer a meeting . indicate dissent . he say that he do not receive the letter . let I say therefore that I would , of course , be very happy to meet he , and I be keen to do that as quickly as possible . yesterday , I write to Glastonbury festival , urge it to remove this music group from its line - up because they have allegedly call for the murder of conservative colleague in this House , and because we have see footage of they appear to show support for Hezbollah and Hamas , include by wave a flag of a proscribe organisation . word , as other have say , have tragic consequence . beloved colleague Jo Cox and Sir David Amess be tragically murder , and 16 June 2016 remain one of the bad day of my life . I know many colleague in this House feel the same . we all have a duty to prevent that from ever happen again . I welcome the Minister ' s comment about Glastonbury . do he agree that iTunes , spotify , YouTube and other should strongly consider take the group ' s music off their platform until the police investigation be over ? may I also note the absence of the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , who be not present and not involve in this discussion ? will the Minister join I in condemn the right hon . member for Islington North ' s appearance in a photograph with the group , and in call for he to apologise for that ? order . may I remind member that if they make specific reference to a colleague , they ought to give they notice in advance ? I agree with my hon . friend about word have consequence ; he be absolutely right about that . he be also absolutely right that we all have a duty in this House to do everything that we possibly can to conduct our politic in a responsible and reasonable way , as do other . he mention Glastonbury ; and I be grateful to he for the care and attention with which he have write to the festival ' s organiser . he hear my early comment . I hear his remark about streaming platform ; my sense be that there be a lot of agreement from member from right across the House . with respect , I be not aware of the other matter he mention , and I be keen not to annoy Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will not refer to the right hon . Gentleman who be not in his place on this occasion . give the proximity of my constituency to the Glastonbury festival , many local people be concerned to learn that a pop group promote harmful and extremist rhetoric be schedule to perform there this summer . what criterion do the Home Office apply when assess whether artist or performer be promote harmful or extremist rhetoric , particularly when there be a clear attempt to provoke public outrage ? also , will the Minister work with I and my hon . friend the Member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) to engage with the Glastonbury festival organiser on find an appropriate resolution ? yes , I be happy to do all the thing that the hon . Lady ask . she mention funding . I hope that she hear the remark that I make early , not least about the Government think that individual express such view should not receive taxpayer funding . I do not think that be a controversial thing to say . the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be review the music export growth scheme . on the hon . Lady ' s point about the Glastonbury festival organiser , I suspect and hope that , as a neighbouring MP , she will have a good and constructive relationship with they . I also very much hope that they have listen to what she have say . the comment make by this group be chilling and disgusting , and they risk drag our politic and our country to a very dangerous place . I echo the comment of my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) . when I go to school in my constituency , the message I take to young people be : " you have a place in politic . you can represent your community . you can make a change . " do my hon . friend agree that incitement to violence , and violence against mps , have a chilling effect , particularly on people from under - represent group in our country ? they push those people not to get involve in politic , which be deeply wrong . my hon . friend make a really important point , and I agree wholeheartedly with it . he be right about the chilling effect . it would absolutely extend to young people , as well as old people and other ; it apply to anyone consider step forward to serve in public life . the strength of our democracy and our country depend on people who be prepared to step forward and serve their constituent as member of this House , and we need to ensure that people feel that they can do that without be subject to completely unnecessary harassment and intimidation . that be why a key theme of the defend democracy taskforce be incident of harassment and intimidation , and whether there be gap in legislation . where there be gap , we will fill they . every time I come to this House , I stand underneath the plaque for Jo Cox , and I look over at the plaque for David Amess . it seem impossible that within 10 year , two of our colleague could have be murder . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for raise this question , because it give we a moment to reflect . when I read the word : " the only good Tory be a dead tory . kill your local MP " , and " up Hamas ! up Hezbollah ! " , I can not see what time interval need to pass before that be deem an offence . I entirely recognise what the Minister say about these process need to happen independently , but speed of justice contribute to confidence in justice . as a former art Minister who work to support masse of creative group , probably very few of which support I or my party , I be clear - head about the use of the music export growth scheme . I hope that the Minister , who I know to be a decent man , will , in his work on the defend democracy taskforce , proactively ensure that no taxpayer ' money go to any organisation or creative group that use language that have such a negative effect on the way that politics be conduct , and the way that we in this place be see . I agree with the right hon . gentleman . he be right to say that the urgent question have provide we with a moment to reflect . the word that he repeat — I completely understand why he choose to repeat they — be utterly vile . they make my blood boil . I also agree with the other point that he make . he know , as a former senior Minister , about the importance of the operational independence of the police , but he make his point in a very reasonable way , and it will have be hear . finally , on his comment about funding , he be absolutely right again . that be why the Secretary of State , as a matter of urgency , will now look at these matter . it be good to hear that the House be unite in its condemnation of the appalling comment by this band , incite hatred and support terrorism , and our thought and prayer today be with the family of Jo Cox and Sir David Amess . do the Minister agree that there can never be any excuse for incite violence against mps , or for support the vile , antisemitic terrorist of Hamas and Hezbollah , and that a threat to mps be a threat to democracy itself ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there can never , ever be any excuse for these kind of word . this be not about free speech or artistic licence ; it be about incitement . he be absolutely right to frame his question in the way that he have , and I can give he an assurance of the seriousness with which we take these matter . I thank the Minister for his answer . Kneecap ' s so - call apology simply underline their hatred and refusal to see that they can not call for murder simply because they do not agree with political belief . we know that they glorify IRA terrorist campaign , and they make no apology for that . no one can support a group who be proscribe , and this must be deal with . I look to the Minister in particular , since the responsibility lie on his shoulder , and ask he how he will send the appropriate message from this House that although we may not agree politically , there be a line , and Kneecap have cross that line . there be right and wrong , and if someone have do wrong they be accountable in law for it , so no half - hearted , grudging , fake apology will suffice . they need to be bring to justice by the police and take to court . well still , put they in jail . I agree with the hon . member , and I think he frame the appropriate message very effectively himself . he be right to say that it be never acceptable to utter the kind of word that we have hear today , and this Government take these matter incredibly seriously . he will also have hear the agreement I make early to meet the leader of political party in Northern Ireland — of course , I be happy to meet the political leader of any party — to discuss these matter . I be grateful to he for his contribution . do the Minister agree that there be no context at all in which it would be acceptable to utter the remark attribute to this group ? do he hope , as I do , that the criminal justice system pursue they with the utmost rigour , without any thought to mitigation such as so - call artistic licence ? do he share my disappointment as a south - west MP that , as of this afternoon , Glastonbury be still list this outfit for a performance on Saturday 28 June ? I certainly agree with the right hon . gentleman with regard to there be no excuse whatsoever for these remark . I know that he will understand the limitation place on I with regard to what be an ongoing live investigation by the police , but the word that he have use be entirely reasonable and appropriate . with regard to Glastonbury , he will have hear the contribution make by other hon . member and the word that I use early with regard to the organiser of that festival consider whether it be appropriate to have in their line - up a group who be currently subject to a live police investigation . I hope very much that they will take that seriously and listen to the concern that have be express by member right across this House . the phrase , " kill your local MP , " carry a sincerely sinister connotation right across this House . to my party , which have lose councillor , member of the Northern Ireland Parliament and Members of this House to republican terrorist , those word be not clever or smart ; they be an incitement to terrorist activity , which this band have glorify in the past . this band present a real danger , through what they call their art , of glorify the action that cause the murder and death of so many people in Northern Ireland . can the Minister give a reassurance that the Government will do all in their power to look not just at what have be say in the recent video that have come to light but at what the band have say in the past ? as he look to Glastonbury and give the organiser advice , will he also look at a forthcoming event in Belfast and provide Belfast city council with the same advice ? I can give the hon . member that reassurance . the word we have hear be chill anywhere , in any corner of this United Kingdom , but I completely understand the point he make and the particular significance they will have in his constituency and his part of the world , so I can give he the reassurance he seek . the Minister have a point about the name . an irish republican band with a name that must send a shudder down the spine of so many in Northern Ireland , and which the hon . and gallant Minister choose not to use , ought to have raise alarm bell long before they get their hand on any public money . be there any prospect of get that money back ? I agree with the sentiment express by the right hon . Gentleman . on the issue of the money , that be something the Secretary of State will be look closely at . in Northern Ireland , the term " kneecap " be relate to a violent criminal act . when a grouping take that as their name , express a desire for mp to be murder and support proscribe organisation like Hezbollah and Hamas , we have to question why they have be award so much UK taxpayer ' money . yesterday , I take the opportunity to write to the US and canadian authority ask they to refuse any visa application from these hatemonger ahead of their publicise tour of North America to prevent they from spread their violent message across the world . will the Minister join I in lobby for that ? as the hon . member may be aware , I be — not to the same extent as herself — intimately familiar with the connotation of the name from my previous professional experience , so I completely understand why she have make the point in the way that she have . let I undertake to go away and think more specifically about the point she have raise , but I be happy to discuss they far with she or with any of her colleague should she wish to do so . if this band remain on the bill at Glastonbury this year , will the Minister undertake on behalf of the Government that no Ministers will attend the whole festival ? I be not intend to attend myself . let I reflect on the question , not least because I be not responsible for other Ministers ' diary . however , as I have say previously , I be sure — I be certainly hopeful — that the organiser of Glastonbury will be listen to the contribution that have be make and will reflect on the decision that they have previously take . I thank the Minister for the tone and manner in which he have answer question . I be cognisant of the ongoing legal action that may be pursue in this case , so to generalise the point a little , how be the Government ensure that public funding mechanism , such as the music export growth scheme , be not inadvertently support entity that propagate extremist rhetoric and incitement to violence ? this be not just about the money ; it be about the official imprimatur that scheme like that offer to the entity involve . the hon . Member make an entirely reasonable and legitimate point about the public funding . I say again that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be review the scheme , and I be sure that she will have more to say about it in the not - too - distant future . the Minister have respond to the urgent question and give an unequivocal condemnation , which I be sure be share across the House . do he understand , though , that many of we have suffer threat down through the year ? we have the plaque in the Chamber for those who have suffer and pay the ultimate sacrifice . do he agree that while that condemnation be universal across the Chamber , our comment amount to diddly squat for the group concern , but the action that follow from the Minister ' s word would matter ? will he come back to the House after he have take the action he have undertake to take to update member and the general public on they ? I be grateful for and completely understand the point the hon . Member make , which he make in a fair , reasonable way . I give he that commitment to come back and update the House . I give he my personal assurance of the importance that I attach to these matter . I chair the defend democracy taskforce . I have personally invest a huge amount of time and effort work closely with official not just in the Home Office but right across government . it be an important mechanism that bring together the collective resource of the UK Government , and it be on I to ensure that those resource be properly marshal in the right place at the right time , so that we can be ambitious about ensure that people be not subject to completely unacceptable harassment and intimidation . I give he the assurance that I will do everything I possibly can , work with colleague across Government , and I would be happy to speak to he and to come back and update the House accordingly . an apology to the family of David Amess and Jo Cox be the only slim chance for redemption . the use of incite language be to be condemn when it become apparent , just as violence against elect representative be always to be condemn . politic be about be alert to the right to use word powerfully and the risk and responsibility of do so . do the Minister agree , therefore , that it be right and necessary to condemn incendiary language and to ensure freedom of speech right across the political spectrum ? yes , I agree . I be in Wales recently where I discuss these matter with the First Minister . as I mention early , it be very much the Government ' s intention that our approach and response be not just conduct at the UK Government national level , but be wire through local authority and the devolved assembly . I be acutely conscious of the fact that election will be take place in Wales next year , and I want to ensure that everybody who participate in those election can do so in a safe and secure way . I want to work with the First Minister , the right hon . Member and all her colleague in Wales to ensure that that be the case . I join in the condemnation from across the political spectrum in this House and from the Minister of the comment from this group , which be abhorrent , evil and twisted . do the Minister agree that any local government authority — I think especially of Belfast city council — that be allow group such as these to use their property for concert should rethink that policy ? will he give a further commitment that he will contact Belfast city council to ensure that this group be not allow to use council property for spew out sectarian hate and evil comment ? I be grateful to the hon . member for the point he have raise . all public body have an absolute responsibility to ensure that taxpayer ' money be spend in an appropriate way . I will take away the comment he have make and reflect on they , and I be happy to correspond with he far about they . be the Minister confident that the exist framework that prevent public fund from be use to platform individual and group who seek to stoke division be robust ? as the hon . Member will understand , these public fund have not be allocate via my Department , so I will look carefully at the point he have make . as I say early , the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be look carefully and review this scheme . however , as I have just say to the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) , all public body and certainly all Departments have an absolute responsibility to ensure that taxpayer ' money be spend wisely , and that be the approach that this Government will take . with the scale of imprisonment that we have see in recent month for those who make inappropriate comment on social medium , do the Minister agree that confidence in police and the prosecution service be on the line in this appalling incitement to murder , and that such confidence require action against this group — a group that have make their hateful career out of advocate and support terrorism , be it Hamas , Hezbollah or the IRA ? in that regard , will the Minister consider the adequacy of the offence of glorification of terrorism , which have so many let - out that such group be adept at exploit and need to be tighten up ? will he do that as a consequence of this episode ? the police and the Crown Prosecution Service have a difficult job to do in general term , and I be determined not to make it more difficult in these circumstance . the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s second point be reasonable ; I will reflect on it and come back to he . every time member enter this Chamber , they walk through a door that have plaque in memory of Robert Bradford , Airey Neave and Ian Gow , who be murder by the IRA simply because they serve as mps . this group have , through their music , glorify that kind of terrorism , just as Sinn F é in have do on a regular basis in Northern Ireland , right up to the level of First Minister . to that extent , the group could be call the musical wing of Sinn F é in . will the Minister assure we that he will encourage the police to investigate this quickly , that the funding formula will no long allow such group to obtain funding , and that he will do his good to deny the group any further platform ? I suspect that their panicked apology be more about get visa for their lucrative tour in Canada and America than it be about be sorry for what they have do . incitement to violence be completely unacceptable and there be never an excuse for it . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to mention the former member of this House who lose their life serve their constituent and our country . I underline again the Government ' s commitment and determination to ensure that all of we in this place , and all who serve in public life , can do so safely and securely . he speak about the investigation . as I have say , that be on the way , but I take and understand his point about speed . he will understand that I have already respond to the point about funding . the Secretary of State will look at that — as will other Departments , I be sure . the right hon . Gentleman be right to refer to the fact that member of this House who have serve their constituent in good faith have lose their life in so do . that be utterly vile . we all have a responsibility to ensure that it do not happen again . that be the body of work of the defend democracy taskforce . I will ensure that it mean we be well place to address the threat that we all know about . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my understanding , as a new MP , be that there be a long - stand convention by which a Member who intend to refer to another Member during proceeding — particularly in a critical or contentious manner — should inform that Member in advance . that courtesy give the Member concern the opportunity to be present and , if necessary , to respond . early , reference be make to the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) without prior notice . I seek your guidance on whether that be in keep with the expect standard of conduct in the Chamber . I thank the hon . member for advance notice of his point of order . have he be in the Chamber at the time , he would have hear I make exactly that point . it be a courtesy of this House that member refer to other should give advance notice . Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Visit with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the inward visit of Prime Minister Mustafa . yesterday , at the invitation of the Government , the Palestinian Authority Prime Minister , Dr Mohammad Mustafa , visit the United Kingdom . Prime Minister Mustafa be accompany by Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Varsen Aghabekian and Minister of Health Dr Maged Abu Ramadan . the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary both hold meeting with Prime Minister Mustafa yesterday , and I be delighted to meet he again this morning . this visit reflect the UK ' s steadfast support for the Palestinian Authority and the palestinian people at this critical juncture in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . during the visit , we reaffirm our unwavering commitment to advance a two - state solution as the only pathway to achieve just and last peace in the middle east , where Israelis and Palestinians can live side by side in peace , dignity and security . we be clear that the palestinian people have an inalienable right of self - determination , include to independent statehood . the Government be commit to strengthen our bilateral relation with the Palestinian Authority . the PA be the only legitimate governing entity in the occupied Palestinian Territories , and it be important that Gaza and the west bank be reunify under their authority . the UK be clear that the PA must have a central role in the next phase in Gaza . there can be no role for Hamas in the future of Gaza . we have be clear : Hamas must immediately release the hostage and relinquish control of Gaza . Israelis must be able to live in security next to their palestinian neighbour , and 7 October must never be repeat . the Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister Mustafa sign a landmark memorandum of understanding to enhance the bilateral partnership between our two government . the memorandum of understanding establish a new framework to guide and enhance the strategic partnership , and high - level dialogue across area of mutual interest and benefit , include economic development and institutional reform . as part of our meeting with Prime Minister Mustafa , we discuss the gravity of the situation in Gaza , the west bank and East Jerusalem . we condemn the appalling suffering of civilian in Gaza and agree on the urgent need for a return to a ceasefire in Gaza with the release of hostage and unblocking of aid . aid worker need protection . only diplomacy , not more bloodshed , will achieve long - term peace . we also share our alarm at the heighten tension in the west bank . we reiterate our clear condemnation of israeli settlement , which be illegal under international law and harm the prospect of a future palestinian state . we call for an end to settlement expansion and settler violence . we be also clear that Israel must release frozen Palestinian Authority fund . Prime Minister Mustafa outline the essential reform that the Palestinian Authority be currently undertake . we fully support the implementation of those much - need reform , include through provide technical assistance . the reform will strengthen financial sustainability and economic development , enhance the transparency and efficiency of governance and service delivery , and promote peaceful co - existence with neighbouring country . as part of our MOU , the Palestinian Authority underline their commitment to deliver their reform agenda in full as a matter of priority . as part of the visit , we also announce a £ 101 million package of support for the Occupied Palestinian Territories . it will be direct at humanitarian relief , support for palestinian economic development and strengthen Palestinian Authority governance and reform . as the Foreign Secretary make clear , we will not give up on the two - state solution , with a palestinian state and Israel live side by side in peace , dignity and security . the visit be a significant step in strengthen our relationship with the Palestinian Authority — a key partner for peace in the middle east — at this critical moment . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the Government ' s MOU fail to stand up to credible scrutiny , as it fail to outline in any way how it will help to achieve a meaningful end to the conflict . the MOU say that the PA be the " only legitimate govern entity " across the west bank , East Jerusalem and Gaza and that the UK Government want to see the PA run all three . there clearly can not be any future for Hamas — we completely agree with that — but how will the Minister and the Government bring this about without a strategy for the removal of the terrorist Hamas regime in Gaza ? I have ask this question many time from the Dispatch Box , but the Government simply have no answer . there be a commitment in the MOU that the Palestinian Authority will hold presidential and parliamentary election in " the shortest feasible timeframe " . what be that timeframe ? who be dictate that timetable ? what mechanism be be put in place for election , and have this be support by arab partner and neighbour who be signatory to the Cairo plan to rebuild Gaza ? do the Minister believe that the Palestinian Authority , in their current form , be capable of hold free and fair election ? if not , be it the Government ' s intention to provide election assistance ? how would the Government rule out Hamas be able to run in those election ? there be nothing explicit in the MOU about a plan to ensure that terrorist infrastructure in Gaza be dismantle once and for all , which be inexplicable . what dialogue have take place with key middle eastern ally since the Cairo plan for Gaza be publish ? on the question of recognition of a palestinian state , the Government ' s approach be incoherent , and the MOU provide no clarity on the long - term intention , condition or timing of this happening . do the Minister agree that we be not at the point of recognition , and that recognition can not be the start of the process ? there be no mention anywhere in the MOU of effort to build upon the Abraham accord as a way of achieve regional stability , despite the accord provide the framework to support and finance a new future for Palestine and support a two - state solution . be effort to expand the accord discuss with the Palestinian Authority leadership yesterday ? on the economic front , the MOU talk about boost trade , but what kind of increase be we look at in value term , give all the instability in the region ? in which sector be the Government now pursue trade , and will this involve the UK Government spend money on trade promotion measure ? why be there no mention of welfare reform in PA - control territory , which we know be in dire need of urgent attention ? meanwhile , the reference to education be extremely vague and unsatisfactory . it need to be much clear and set proper parameter , so that there be clear plan for educate and upskille a whole generation who have be poorly serve by their political leader for too long . can the Minister confirm whether he hold discussion with the PA about the urgent need for they to do everything in their power to banish antisemitism from palestinian school textbook ? can he provide any detail on the opaque commitment to " education , scientific and cultural exchange " ? what form will those take ? can the Minister clarify what exactly the £ 101 million he announce yesterday will go towards ? which organisation will be entrust with the money and whether UNRWA — the United Nations Relief and Works Agency — will receive any of it ? what specific programme will it fund ? the entire document contain only a brief mention of the need to tackle corruption , which be inadequate . what be his assessment of the current corruption level and the PA leadership ' s effort to deal with it ? what be his definition of progress ? the section on security co - operation also need unpack and more accountability . exactly how will security co - operation be enhance , and which " global challenge and threat " do the Minister envisage jointly counter with the Palestinian Authority ? the MOU also state : " the participant commit to action to uphold the right of woman and minority group and prevent the targeting of individual in these category . " do the Minister believe that these right be be sufficiently uphold in the west bank at present ? indeed , the question of full civil liberty , include freedom of expression and medium freedom , need serious attention . the PA have their work cut out to prove their credibility . there be a section on climate change in the MOU . can the Minister tell we exactly what be the good practice he be seek to learn from the Palestinian Authority when it come to tackle climate change ? on the current conflict , what have this Government do since the House last meet on this issue to support international effort to secure the release of those poor hostage who remain in such cruel captivity in Gaza ? finally , I turn to Iran . if we be serious about sustainable peace , we must address the root cause of this terrible suffering . we still have no clarity from the Government about how they see the UK work with the US Administration , so I will give the Minister another opportunity to answer that question . will he furnish we with the Government ' s official response on the legal attempt here in the UK to challenge the proscription of Hamas ? the shadow Foreign Secretary ask many question . let I be clear : the british Government see the Palestinian Authority as a vital partner , and they be a vital partner that must go through reform . the new Prime Minister have show leadership on that reform agenda and have make progress on a range of issue . the right hon . Lady raise a number of important issue . one be the content of textbook , an issue on which we have discussion with the Palestinian Authority and which I have discuss with other party who have strong view , understandably , on the importance of ensure that both community be raise with a belief in co - existence rather than hatred . there be a range of other very important reform question that be at issue . one of they , on which the Prime Minister have show real leadership , be the so - call " pay to slay " arrangement . progress have be make on that , and we must encourage the Palestinian Authority in those reform effort . the memorandum of understanding be intend to provide a framework to upgrade that co - operation , because the Palestinian Authority be the vital partner for peace . the right hon . Lady rightly ask what we will do to ensure that Hamas leave the Gaza strip and do not play a governance role . one of the most important thing we can do be ensure that there be a serious and credible alternative to Hamas , and that must be the Palestinian Authority , which be what our effort be aim at . the right hon . Lady ask two important question about the UK Government ' s position in relation to Iran . we welcome the talk between the United States of America and Iran . I be in Oman after the first stage of the talk and the Foreign Secretary have be there recently . we be talk to all party and we want to see a diplomatic solution to the nuclear weapon threat that Iran pose not just to the region but to the world . we hope that these talk will prove successful . the right hon . Lady ask , reasonably , about the allocation of the £ 101 million . I be not in a position to give a full breakdown of exactly where the money will go , though I will provide the House with that breakdown . I would anticipate that funding be direct to UNRWA and the Palestinian Authority directly , but once we have full programmatic detail , we will return to the House with that breakdown . we be talk to partner about those allocation and I be happy to come back in writing on some of the more detailed question . lastly , we support the Abraham accord . I be very pleased , while the right hon . Lady be there , to sign the UK up to an agreement with Bahrain and the US which include explicit reference to the Abraham accord . we be support the Abraham accord not just in our word but in our action . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . at the meeting last night between the Foreign Affairs Committee and the palestinian Prime Minister and his delegation , it be clear that they be very encouraged by the discussion they have have with the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary , and rightly so , because the memorandum of understanding show serious thinking about the long - term future of Israel and Palestine and leadership towards peace . do my hon . friend agree that now be the time to take the next serious step , which be to finally recognise the state of Palestine ? the good time to do that might be alongside the French in New York in June . I thank my right hon . friend for her question and her courteous treatment of the palestinian Prime Minister last night . the question of recognition be raise repeatedly in this House . our position remain the same : we do wish to recognise a palestinian state , and we wish to do so as a contribution to a two - state solution . we will make the judgment about when the good moment be to try to make the full possible contribution . as I say to the palestinian Prime Minister this morning , our responsibility be for the reality of the situation on the ground — the practical viability of a palestinian state . of course , other state have take a different position from the UK Government and choose to recognise a palestinian state . that have not call it into existence . our job in the British Government be to make a practical contribution to a two - state solution , and that be how we intend to approach this issue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be glad to see the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary meet the Palestinian Authority ' s Prime Minister Mustafa and reaffirm this country ' s support for a two - state solution . a palestinian state as part of a wide two - state solution remain the only path to long - term peace and security for both Israelis and Palestinians . the Liberal Democrats have call for the immediate recognition of the state of Palestine . I ask the Minister this question most week and will ask it again , and I hope the position will change one week : follow yesterday ' s meeting , will the Government now take this vital step and commit to work with international partner such as France on issue a joint recognition statement ? now be the time for a restoration of the ceasefire , the release of the hostage and a return to the political process . this Government have pledge a £ 101 million package of support for the Occupied Palestinian Territories , include for humanitarian relief . that be welcome , yet for more than 50 day Israel have block aid from enter Gaza and shutter border crossing point . as a result , the food stock of the UN World Food Programme , which previously reach half of Gaza ' s population , have entirely run out . the risk of starvation , disease and death be very real , even as 116 , 000 tonne of food aid languish at border checkpoint . in a joint statement with french and german counterpart , the Foreign Secretary call this " intolerable " , and rightly so , but what be the Government do to end the blockade and ensure that aid can flow into Gaza ? the International Court of Justice have open hearing on Israel ' s responsibility to facilitate humanitarian relief in Gaza . will the Government commit to abide by the court ' s judgment ? two week ago , the Government say that they continue to consider the ICJ ' s opinion on the opt . can the Minister update the House on when we can finally expect the Government ' s response ? the Government have also reaffirm their condemnation of violent west bank settler activity , but what concrete step be be take to pressure Israel to act on illegal settlement ? finally , will the Government now consider sanction on those israeli Ministers , such as Smotrich and Ben - Gvir , who encourage settler violence ? I have set out the position on recognition in a previous answer , and I be afraid that I will have to test the hon . Lady ' s patience because on sanction I will also set out the position , which be very familiar : we do not comment on sanction in advance , as to do so might impact their effectiveness . I can confirm , however , that we have raise these issue , include the blockade of aid . as she have identify , we issue a statement with our european partner last week , and the Foreign Secretary raise this with his counterpart on 15 April . I welcome the work that special envoy Sir Michael Barber will be do in the Palestinian Authority . when I be work in Pakistan as a diplomat , I see the excellent work they be do in build the public sector . do the Minister agree , however , that that work will be futile if Israel continue to undermine the PA by take step towards the annexation of the west bank , and what step be the Government take to ensure that this do not happen ? I join my hon . friend in what he say about Sir Michael Barber . we be both in Pakistan at a similar time and both see the excellent work he do on girl ' education there , and I welcome his vital role in relation to the Palestinian Authority . I have be clear , as have the Foreign Secretary , about our position on settlement . they be illegal under international law and we oppose completely any annexation of the west bank . the Foreign Secretary rightly say in his statement yesterday that Hamas have no future in any of the possible way forward for Palestine and for Gaza . that be a statement of the obvious , but what be the Government ' s strategy for Palestine ? in particular , give that the Minister avoid the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , what discussion have he have with the Americans , because it seem to I that the Trump plan for Gaza , in particular , be very different from any conceivable plan that the UK Government might have ? the right hon . Gentleman , one of my predecessor , ask what our plan for Palestine be . our support to the Palestinian Authority be an important element of our work in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . they must be at the centre of the effort to ensure that there can be a future for both Palestine and Israel that involve two safe and secure state side by side . we of course speak regularly to our US counterpart across the whole range of issue in my area — in many area we may diverge , but we continue to have a very close relationship and discuss these matter closely . as my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) mention , member of the Foreign Affairs Committee meet the Palestinian Authority Prime Minister yesterday . he be steadfast in his comment to we on his advocacy for peace for the people in Gaza , in the west bank and the occupy territory and in Israel . those of we on the labour side of the House stand on a manifesto that state : " palestinian statehood be the inalienable right of the palestinian people . it be not in the gift of any neighbour and be also essential to the long - term security of Israel . " the Minister have be ask this question before , but the time to recognise the state of Palestine be long overdue ; the time be now . when will the UK finally recognise the state of Palestine ? my hon . friend be commit to these issue . I know that she have travel to the region recently and have a long history of advocacy , as do so many in this House . as I say in my previous answer , the role of the British Government must be to try and practically bring about the safety and security that two state can provide , and we will consider recognition in that context . as have be mention by colleague on the Foreign Affairs Committee , yesterday we meet the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority . he outline to we their plan for the running of Gaza once the conflict be over . however , the Palestinian Authority be also in desperate need of long - overdue reform . Hamas ' s rule of Gaza have be an absolute disaster for the Gazan people , but the future of Gaza can not be for the Palestinian Authority to run Gaza in the same fashion in which they have be run the west bank . what guarantee do the Government have that the PA be go to undertake those reform to their governance , to the corruption issue , and to the rule of law that be desperately need so that the people of Gaza have a well future ? a central element of our discussion with the palestinian Prime Minister be that reform agenda . the palestinian Prime Minister be relatively new in his position and , as I say to the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , he have make some important commitment and important practical change , and we must support the Palestinian Authority to reform in order to well serve the palestinian people . may I put on record my thank to the Minister for his statement today and commend he and the Foreign Secretary for secure this landmark memorandum of understanding with the palestinian Government ? follow my meeting yesterday with Prime Minister Mustafa , can the Minister tell this House how the MOU and the £ 101 million for the Occupied Palestinian Territories will allow the Palestinian Authority to reform and provide crucial public service to the palestinian people ? it be a sign of the Palestinian Authority ' s commitment to some of these practical question of service delivery that their Health Minister travel with the Prime Minister for discussion . the MOU provide a framework through which we can have that reform discussion , include strategic dialogue on a whole range of question such as the important education question that the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) raise early . for how long do the Minister think he will be able to recognise a palestinian state that retain sufficient economically viable land to actually be a goer ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important question about the economic viability of the occupy Palestinian Territories and what any future state of Palestine would rely on for its economy . there clearly be very important question to be consider about energy , water and the area themselves . clearly , many of these issue have be consider as final - status determination issue envisage for the end of a two - state solution conference . we be do everything we can to try and support the most practical measure possible to enable the Palestinians to live the most dignified life that they can . may I place on record my thank to the Minister for all the work that he and the Secretary of State be do on the MOU , which be very welcome ? on the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , I appreciate that we stand on that manifesto , and rightly so , but thing have since change . the Government ' s position be that we would continue recognition as part of the peace process , but Israel have be block aid to Gaza for 50 day now , people be start to die of starvation , settler violence be increase in the west bank and we now have an MOU , so be this not the right time to review our position ? will the Minister at least commit to go away and review the decision and give the Palestinians the state recognition that they be way overdue ? my hon . friend be very committed to these issue , and raise they with I here and elsewhere . I will not restate the position , but I will once again confirm from the Dispatch Box our commitment to our manifesto and that we consider recognition an inalienable right of the palestinian people . however , it must be part of the practical step take to bring the violence to an end and a peaceful resolution to the region . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . give that the horrific attack of 7 October be perpetrate by Hamas , that hostage still remain in captivity in Gaza , that those attack be carry out with the support and participation of many Gazans , and that there be senior Palestinian Authority diplomat who openly celebrate those attack , do the Minister not think that unilaterally recognise palestinian statehood at this moment would constitute a reward for terrorism , rather than the fruit of peaceful negotiation ? the right hon . Lady refer to the condition of the hostage . last night , along with my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , I attend a presentation by Eli Sharabi , who have british family member and be take by Hamas on 7 October and hold in the most unimaginably cruel condition . he be release , only to discover that the british passport that be hold by his family as a source of protection be not enough to save they , and be not enough to prevent the killing of his brother 300 metre from he in a tunnel . the whole House remain focused on the hostage who remain in unknown condition , probably deep underground . anyone who have anything to do with that can have no role in the future of Gaza . it be , in part , out of our determination that Hamas must leave the strip that our support for the Palestinian Authority be so important . I welcome the significant strengthening of tie between the UK and the Palestinian Authority , not just in trade and extra funding from the UK , but because , as the Foreign Secretary say last night , " the UK be commit to urgently advance palestinian statehood as a key part of a two - state solution . " it be my pleasure last night to meet not just Prime Minister Mustafa but Basel Adra , the director of the Oscar - win documentary " no Other Land " , who make clear that recognition be his central demand too . do the Minister therefore agree with I that President Macron be right when he say last month that " we must move towards recognition , and we will do so in the come month " ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s engagement and commitment to these issue . I will not rehearse the position that I have set out already on recognition . two week ago , I have the privilege to speak on behalf of the UK Parliament at the Inter - Parliamentary Union , where over 1 , 200 mp from 188 country pass a resolution support a two - state solution . no one vote against it . there be plenty of notice of the UK not recognise a nation state . last night , I ask the palestinian Prime Minister what difference it would make if the UK recognise a palestinian state , and he reply that " it would be a paradigm change , a new platform . it all start with that recognition . " give the crucial meeting between the UK Prime Minister and the palestinian Prime Minister as equal , what practical impediment stand in the way of now recognise Palestine as a nation state ? I hear repeatedly that we be look for a practical solution , so will the Minister explain that to the House ? owe to time constraint , I will not rehearse the vital question about security and governance that will clearly need to underpin a two - state solution in which both state be able to live in peace , security and co - operation . those final - status determination have long be vex . while we be committed to the inalienable right of the Palestinians to a state as part of a two - state solution , let we not pretend that there be not vex issue at the centre of what a palestinian state would look like . that be one reason why so much diplomacy have be focus on these issue over the year . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement and thank he for bring an extensive range of expertise to his role . do he agree with I that it be only right for a british Government Minister to ask search question of both the PA and the israeli Government ? will he reassure I that he will continue to ask question about accountability for the killing of humanitarian worker who be try to perform their duty ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word and for his dedication to these issue . clearly , there have be an absolutely tragic loss of life among aid worker who be deliver vital service in Gaza . we all remember that a year ago a tragic incident kill seven aid worker from the World Central Kitchen , include James Henderson , John Chapman and James Kirby , three british national who remain in our thought . it have be more than a year and we expect an update on the investigation by the israeli military advocate general . we want to see full justice and accountability for british national affect by violence , include in relation to the strike in March on a UN building , in which a british national be seriously injure . over the course of this devastating conflict , more than 400 aid worker have be kill . our demand be drive by nothing other than a desire to protect the life of humanitarian worker and demand accountability for those who be kill . if our Prime Minister can meet the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority , and if the United Kingdom Government can enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Government of the Palestinian Authority , what barrier can remain to the United Kingdom recognise the state of Palestine as a matter of logic ? I gently suggest to the right hon . member that that logic do not wholly follow . there be complex final - status determination issue that would underpin any recognition . no two - state solution will be straightforward without significant negotiation , diplomacy and agreement on both side . as I have set out , recognition remain our goal , but let we not pretend that it be a straightforward decision without complexity . in his remark yesterday , the palestinian Prime Minister quite rightly remind mps of the UK ' s historic , moral and legal obligation to the palestinian people . the importance of our action to uphold international law today can not be underestimate , so I must ask the Minister why the UK be still reluctant to sanction Israel for its war crime against the Palestinians ? why be the Government deepen our trade tie with Israel , as the International Court of Justice warn country not to assist or aid illegal occupation ? finally , I ask the Minister to listen to the grow call in this Chamber and announce when the Government will finally recognise the state of Palestine . our position be clear on international humanitarian law and on the importance of accountability . I will not test your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , by again go through the point about recognition . in 2014 , I be one of 39 conservative who vote in this House for recognition of Palestine . since then , government have come and go , and thousand of life on both side have be lose . the Minister say a few minute ago that he could not go into the full detail , but I be sure it would be helpful — if not today , in the very near future — to member from across the House for he to provide a detailed analysis of what need to change before recognition can take place . I be confident that I will be back in this House to talk about the detail of recognition soon . as another Member of this House who vote in 2014 to recognise the state of Palestine in a motion that this House pass , I will say that progress on this matter be long overdue . I hope the Minister have hear loud and clear the message from many of we that continue to delay that be problematic . the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) might be surprised that I agree with he : there be a concern about what will be leave of the state of Palestine . despite the existence of thermographic technology , israeli force be now burn to the ground the agricultural field in northern Gaza in apparent pursuit of the tunnel that Hamas be use for their terrorist attack . we know that nearly 4 , 000 child in Gaza have be diagnose as suffer from acute malnutrition . we all desperately want to see aid resume to Palestine , because we know that there be no future for any state if people be starve to death . will the Minister update we on the practical detail he discuss last night with the Palestinian Authority about how we will get food back into Gaza and get movement in this process ? my hon . friend raise important question about the viability of the palestinian state . the occupied Palestinian Territories must not be reduce either geographically or by force displacement , and I be happy to reiterate that point at the Dispatch Box . there be clearly an urgent crisis . the World Food Programme have say that it have now run out of food in the Gaza strip . the single most important measure that can be take to address that crisis be an end to the blockade of aid into the Gaza strip , and that be what we continue to call for . can I invite the Minister to bring a great sense of urgency to the situation ? there be child starve to death in Gaza and die for lack of medicine . there be no water and hardly any power go in . the hospital be not function . that be all a disaster make by the deliberate action of the Israel Defence Forces . what action be the Minister take to ensure that the blockade end and that food , medicine and all the necessity for life go in ? those people who be die of starvation can see food over the fence in Israel , but they be be deliberately starve to death . as I say in my previous answer , we be clear that the single most significant contribution that can be take on that problem be end the blockade of Gaza . we have be clear with the israeli Government at the high level , include on 15 April , in the meeting between the Foreign Secretary and his israeli equivalent , that that blockade must be lift . on the long - term question of health and some of the other basic social service , I will say that of course we discuss those issue with the Palestinian Authority and relevant Ministers over the past two day . as the right hon . Gentleman say , this be very urgent , and the World Food Programme have be clear . that be why we make the statement over the weekend . it be sober yesterday listen to Dr Mustafa , the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority , not least as he stress the UK Government ' s leadership role and the importance of the recognition of the state of Palestine . bear in mind that leadership role and the fact that 147 jurisdiction already recognise that state , will the Minister explain to the House today the reason for the impediment to that recognition ? it be really important that we hear that , because we be here to hold the Government to account . some 147 state have recognise a palestinian state , yet no palestinian state be fully function . that underline the importance of take the practical measure that will be absolutely vital not only to support palestinian life , but to ensure that two state can co - exist peacefully , side by side . many member have refer to some of the practical impediment , whether it be the removal of Hamas from the Gaza strip or the economic challenge that face the palestinian territory in both the west bank and Gaza . let I be clear . an extremely violent conflict continue . without a ceasefire , it be hard to imagine the creation of a state . I be sure that we will continue to discuss the merit of recognition , but let we not pretend that there be not serious practical consideration to bear in mind before the practical establishment of a palestinian state be possible . the british Government be focus on change the actual fact on the ground . that be the approach that we will take . other hon . and right hon . member have talk about what might be leave in Palestine , but I will ask about who might be leave . some 20 % of the 55 , 000 pregnant woman there — that is 11 , 000 pregnant woman — be so malnourished that their pregnancy be now high risk . that really undermine the future of Palestine ' s population . what assurance can the Minister give we that the £ 101 million will be direct to those people who really need it ? as I have say already , once we have fully allocate the funding , we will return to the House to outline how it have be prioritise . I be pleased to see that the Foreign Secretary , along with France and Germany , strongly condemn the use of humanitarian aid as a political tool . the Minister will know very well that the only way to bring peace and stability to the region be by work together with our network of ally . bear that in mind , what conversation have he have with our european and international ally about the Palestinian - lead planning of recovery and reconstruction in Gaza , as outline in yesterday ' s excellent memorandum of understanding ? my hon . friend ask important question . the Foreign Secretary and I , and the whole ministerial team , be engage with our international partner . we have make a number of statement with european partner ; with the Qataris on Sunday , when the Foreign Secretary travel to Qatar ; and in Oman , to which the Foreign Secretary and I travel recently . we be engage with many other important partner in the region , include Egypt , Israel and many other . we have hear member across the House ask about recognition and sanction . yesterday , I join a private briefing organise by the Palestinian NGO Network , medical aid for Palestinians , Oxfam International , save the Children , the Norwegian Refugee Council and the Association of International Development Agencies . the message I take away , which be burn into my brain , be that , on the ground , food , water and medicine — the essential of life — have all run out , as the Minister say . baby milk and the water need to make it be not available . would the UK Government ' s response be the same if the people who be starve , and deny water and medicine , be in Ukraine , God forbid , and if Russia be the perpetrator ? the UK seek to play its full role in every humanitarian crisis . we have conduct important conference on Sudan , and have attend to issue in Ukraine and the occupied Palestinian Territories . we act wherever we can to try to avert humanitarian suffering . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , in particular the announcement of £ 101 million for humanitarian aid and the signing of the memorandum of understanding . the Minister have reconfirm his commitment to a two - state solution . however , in order to have a two - state solution , we need to recognise both state . what criterion be be use to assess when the time be right to recognise Palestine as a state ? if the Minister be not able to provide a detailed response today , I be happy to receive one in writing . I thank my hon . friend for his question . there be no end of detail to discuss in relation to recognition , and I be sure that we will return to this House to discuss it far . of course , when we talk of a two - state solution , we envisage two recognise state live peacefully together , provide for their joint safety and security . that be implicit in our long - stand support for a two - state solution . in his statement , the Minister say that there could be no role for Hamas in the future of Gaza . I support that , but there can be no future for Gaza unless the killing and destruction end . that be why , in September last year , it be welcome that the Government suspend 29 arm export licence , follow concern that there be a risk that they could be use by the Israelis to break international law in Gaza . however , a further 34 export licence to Israel be grant between September and December last year — more than be originally block . can the Minister explain that decision , and provide the late number of arm licence to Israel that have be approve ? in September , we set out the basis on which we choose to suspend arm licence , and that basis remain . there be not a full restriction on provide licence ; many licence be provide either for dual - use good , or for good that could not possibly be use for the activity that have cause concern . for example , licence would be issue for body armour use by non - governmental organisation worker in Gaza . there be also item for the legitimate defence of Israel , such as component that could enable its missile defence system to defend it against iranian drone . I do not have the exact number of licence ; it tend to change relatively regularly , give the nature of the flow between the two country . I too welcome the MOU and the funding we will provide to the Palestinian Authority . when I go to Jerusalem last year with other member , we talk to the NGO community — an absolutely vital community in both Israel and Palestine , work for democracy and human right . on 5 May , the Knesset be plan to vote on another law that will clamp down on the activity of NGOs work to help build a two - state solution . the law will impose an 80 % tax on donation from foreign state entity , include the United Kingdom , and ban access to court for NGOs . what discussion have the Minister have with counterpart in Israel to ensure that our state funding can go to towards build that two - state solution with both israeli and palestinian NGOs ? we support effort by both israeli and palestinian civil society actor to build link across community , and I know that many in this House have engage with organisation of that kind . we be aware of the draft legislation in the Knesset , and we be engage with colleague in Israel on these question . today , the International Court of Justice hear that Israel be commit genocide in Gaza under the world ' s watchful eye . all of we be witness to the most horrific crime against humanity , which be be carry out in plain sight . a million child have be cut off from the basic necessity for survival for well over a month . they be at risk of starvation . I repeat those word : a million child be at risk of starve to death . I fear that once this be over and do with , and all be say and do , we will make mere memorial to mark the most horrific war crime of our time . this be a tragedy that the world have the power to stop but be refuse to . what more can the Government do to ensure that the civilian population of Gaza , include a million child , be not starve to death , and why be it not be do ? the Government be in no doubt about the severity of the humanitarian situation in Gaza . that be why last week , we make statement — both with our ally and alone — about the politicisation of humanitarian aid and the urgent situation that the UN agency be report . More than 90 % of Gaza ' s population have be displace , and many have be displace repeatedly . many member of this House have hear harrowing tale of resident of the Gaza strip simply try to survive , return to their home only to find it totally destroy , or try to find medical assistance as hospital across the strip go out of operation . the Government be in no doubt about the severity of the situation , and we raise it with the emphasis that the hon . Gentleman would expect . I commend my hon . friend on all the work he be do — I know that a huge amount be go on behind the scene — and particularly on the memorandum of understanding and the additional funding . when I host a meeting of the Britain - Palestine all - party parliamentary group last night , it be quite clear how grateful Prime Minister Mustafa be for the stance that the UK be take , and that he see it as part of a sequence of step towards recognition . yes , he want that as soon as possible , but he recognise the step that need to be take , because of the difficult international context , to ensure that recognition would make a difference . however , who among our other ally , either the E4 or the five eye — except the US , obviously — have provide a similar sort of MOU that can be build on ? I will have to revert to my hon . friend on whether other have a memorandum of understanding . the European Union and other have do important work with the Palestinian Authority , but I be very grateful for the word of the palestinian Prime Minister last night in Parliament . he have particularly recognise the importance of the UK ' s work on the reform agenda and on many other thing , for which I be very grateful . More than 15 , 000 child have be murder , more than 15 , 000 woman have be murder , and more than 15 , 000 innocent man have be murder . the Minister use the word " contribution " when make reference to a two - state solution . I ask he whether the contribution of all those who have be murder — the blood that have be spill — be not sufficient for Palestine to be recognise as a state . as I say in my last answer , we be incredibly conscious of the suffering in Gaza . we want to see a ceasefire , we want a political process , and we want two state live securely side by side , and all our diplomatic effort in relation to this question be focus on that . in his meeting with mps , the palestinian Prime Minister be clear that Israel will change course only if there be real action from state . he stress that , in line with the International Court of Justice ruling , state have a legal responsibility to impose sanction — include end all trade in settlement good — and to cease any aid or assistance that sustain Israel ' s illegal occupation of palestinian territory . those measure be back by a significant number of mps across this House . when will the Government finally impose meaningful sanction in order to hold Israel accountable and apply the pressure need to stop it trample all over international law without any consequence ? rightly , the Government do that for Russia ; wrongly , they will not do it for Israel . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , but I would gently correct he ; as he know , this Government have take step since we become the Government , include sanction . he also know that we do not comment on sanction in advance of issue they . the Minister be a good man and his answer indicate just that , so I read with interest the release on the Government website regard the visit . I see the language refer to the Occupied Palestinian Territories . do the Minister not agree that Government language must be consider and unbiased ? while we welcome dialogue and we hope for peace , to achieve that we can not and must not roll over and use narrative that be not helpful and useful . we must be careful that the Government do not sow division and distrust with our israeli ally . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . the term occupy Palestinian Territories have long be the language of the British Government under multiple different government , and it reflect our legal view of the position . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to secure a peaceful future for the region , but that future feel far away for the family of the hostage still hold by Hamas . as the Minister mention , yesterday he and I hear from Eli Sharabi , who talk about the horror of his experience and how he lose absolutely everything . he be work tirelessly to secure the release of all hostage , include Avinatan or , who have british link . do the Minister agree that the first step in secure the peaceful future we all want to see be the immediate release of all the hostage ? I do , and I pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend , who have be a tireless supporter of hostage family , include Emily Damari , her mother Mandy and , of course , Avinatan or , who be an israeli citizen with a british mother . he be very much in my thought , as be all of those leave in tunnel for phase 2 . they be await a ceasefire that can not come urgently enough . I join my hon . friend in call for the immediate release of all hostage . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Palestinian Authority be key to a two - state solution and should be the basis of the viable palestinian state we all want to see . I welcome the Minister ' s focus on practical step to build up the Palestinian Authority . I think those be a lot more important than statement that might be interpret as a little performative . can the Minister update the House on the Government ' s work with the PA to improve the situation on the ground in the west bank , include tackle the recent increase in Iranian - back terrorism there and the expansion of israeli settlement , both of which represent major practical barrier to a two - state solution ? my hon . friend raise important point , and he have a long history of engagement on these issue . the security challenge in the west bank be important and he be right to raise they . I have set out our position on settlement clearly already from the Dispatch Box , and I reiterate that . we be talk to the Palestinian Authority about those practical challenge and the importance of be able to demonstrate the effectiveness of the palestinian security force to prevent violent disturbance within the area they control . it be vital that settlement be restrain and that the terrible increase in settlement activity be reduce . it be vital , too , that Israel enable the Palestinian Authority to function effectively , which include pay salary , have electricity and all the other basic fundamental that a nation state would require . it be a real honour to join the meeting with Prime Minister Mustafa in Parliament yesterday . I welcome the Minister ' s hard work in the signing of the MOU . I desperately want peace for Palestinians and for Israelis , and I be touch by Prime Minister Mustafa ' s gracious remark that the way forward have to be peace for all , dignity for all and justice for all . do the Minister agree that while we work through the short - term practical consideration of recognise the state of Palestine , we have to keep our eye on that long - term prize of peace , dignity and justice , and that a state of Palestine be a vital part of that ? my hon . friend be right . those be the principle for long - term peace for both party , and that be what we will need to work towards . the memorandum of understanding be significant , and the message to the Minister about the recognition of the state of Palestine be equally significant . member after Member have raise the famine in Gaza and its implication . we be see picture of child who , as a result of malnutrition , be not survive the hospital treatment they be get . historically , our country have be face with this situation before , and we have overridden blockade . we have not allow other country to veto humanitarian aid . be we not near that stage now ? we can not allow Israel to veto the delivery of aid . should we not be look with our partner at the logistic we have on the ground in that region to deliver the aid by sea and by air , whatever statement Israel make ? with and without our partner , we have look at a range of mechanism whereby aid might be bring into Gaza , but the truth be that without effective deconfliction mechanism , aid worker be at real risk , as we have see in recent month and week . there be also a question of scale . there have be airdrop and sea movement of aid into Gaza , but nothing can equal the scale require other than lift the blockade , and that be what have be focus on . after 570 day , 59 hostage remain . do the Minister agree that their unconditional release be a key to the ceasefire ? what do Prime Minister Mustafa have to say about that yesterday ? I thank my hon . friend for his doughty advocacy in this regard . Prime Minister Mustafa tell I that he want hostage to be release , and I be sure my hon . friend will have see some of the other commentary from the Palestinian Authority on these question . this be critical : the hostage must be release as soon as possible , and I know the whole House continue to share that view . Maternity Units ( Requirement for Bereavement Suite ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require new maternity unit to have a bereavement suite ; and for connected purpose . for anyone experience the loss of a baby , that be already one of the most difficult time in their life . it be make more difficult when they experience it in a hospital maternity ward , surround by mother and family celebrate new life . no number of new facility can take the pain away , but parent whose local hospital have a dedicated bereavement suite away from the main labour ward can process that pain in privacy and peace . I be often inspire by my constituent in Kettering , and today I be especially proud to introduce this Bill , inspire by the Twinkling Stars Appeal , which campaign for a new maternity bereavement suite at Kettering general hospital . I pay tribute to the Northamptonshire Health Charity , which have dedicate so much time and care to this appeal , and also to Sands , which work to make sure that anyone affect by pregnancy or baby loss have the care and support that they need . I also want to recognise the work that the NHS be already do . day in and day out , staff at Kettering general hospital help people who be go through one of the most difficult experience that anyone can imagine . they continue to do that despite year of underfunding and understaffing , which be a testament to our hospital staff . finally , I want to thank all the family who have be involve in this campaign , and anyone who have donate , help out at a fundraising event , sell mask during the pandemic to raise money , or even do a skydive . the Rockingham wing , which be the maternity ward of Kettering general , be where I be bear as a premature baby , eight week early . it be where my mum fight for her life after a complicated and traumatic birth , which be make even more difficult as she be surround by happy , healthy mother and their baby . there be many people in Kettering whose life , like mine , start in the Rockingham wing , so it be very alarming to hear in 2023 that it be crumble because of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . I be pleased to say that the RAAC be now be mitigate , and a two - storey extension will be build behind the exist maternity unit to help the team to improve the care that they deliver each year to about 3 , 000 family and their baby . this will be particularly important in Northamptonshire , where we have a grow population and many new family move into the area . on a recent visit to Kettering general , I walk the ground of the new maternity ward . I see plan for the new bereavement suite and , thank to the campaign by the Northamptonshire Health Charity and the effort of local people , I see the place where it will be build . before the appeal , family in Kettering who have lose a baby , either during pregnancy , during the birth itself or through compassionate induction , stay in a room within the labour suite where mother could be close to their baby but not next to they , and where partner walk through the maternity ward to reach they , surround by the sound of new life and delighted parent , make a heartbreaking experience even hard . kettere general hospital care for up to 100 family a year who lose a baby . they will now be care for in a suite that have a private bereavement room , with en suite facility and a cold cot for precious time with their baby . it will have a dedicated family room with a kitchenette , a sofa bed , a peaceful private space for family to gather to support each other , and a quiet office space for bereavement midwife , where sensitive conversation can be conduct with care and privacy . at Northampton hospital , where some of these facility be already in place , the Daisy suite appeal aim to create somewhere for follow - up care with specialist bereavement nurse that be not on the maternity ward , so that when bereaved parent who have experience unique trauma return to the hospital , they will not have to walk back through the same maternity ward again , which could trigger painful memory . a bereavement midwife at Northampton hospital write to I in support of the campaign , state : " come to hospital to give birth to a baby who be know to have die or will die be unimaginable . the grief and devastation can never be fully understand as each circumstance will be different . what we can do as a hospital be try our very good not to add to these feeling and make such an awful situation even bad by not provide a supportive and understand environment . we want they all to feel support , hear and truly care for . " she explain that her team be currently base in the maternity ward , but be not easily accessible for family to drop in for support and be difficult to find for staff member who be look for support themselves . a bereavement suite would allow they to see more family , allow parent to return after discharge and spend more precious time with their baby , and provide a separate space where family do not come face - to - face with other pregnant woman and new - bear baby while go through such a heartbreaking time . these campaign be base on real - life experience . the change be make to our maternity unit in hospital in Northamptonshire be the result of what family have notice after experience bereavement themselves . they want to make a positive difference for future parent . I can not even begin to express the admiration I have for parent who be take their pain and channel it into make thing well for those who come after they . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] some of the parent who contact I mention the importance of " quiet care " when go through a time like this . they tell I that every parent who be go through the bad time of their life should have the opportunity to receive care in private . when I speak to the Northamptonshire Health Charity , it highlight the importance of hear family ' voice in this conversation and speak about how dedicate time and experience to the campaign can have a healing impact for some of the family who have be involve . it be really important that parent consultation be right at the heart of the Bill . the Government be build an NHS fit for the future , and a big part of that be listen to service user and take on board their feedback . I believe that this be particularly important in space such as bereavement suite , where change that might feel small , such as the feel of the space or the access to the room , can make a huge difference to parent and family . in Northamptonshire , bereaved parent have meet nurse and walk through the maternity ward , point out where change can be make to well support parent in future . currently in the UK , 13 family a day lose their baby before , during or shortly after birth . that be around 4 , 500 baby a year , so this issue be big than Kettering or Northamptonshire . when I be research bereavement suite for the Bill , I look on the JustGiving website and find it full of appeal from every corner of the country for fund for new facility , specialist counselling and train midwife for bereavement service . a collaboration of charity work to support people affect by the death of a baby have develop the national bereavement care pathway to improve the quality and consistency of bereavement care receive by parent after pregnancy loss or the death of a baby . as of 2024 , every NHS trust in England have sign up to the national bereavement care pathway , but we know there be still work to do . not all hospital be currently able to provide a properly equipped or suitable bereavement room ; some be in the middle of the labour ward , and some be not sound - proof . the Twinkling Stars suite at Kettering general hospital be a perfect example of how when we welcome contribution from family and parent with experience , we spot thing we do not know we need . at the moment , it be family , community and charity who be raise money so that parent can face such a difficult time with a little more privacy and comfort . nobody can take away the pain of lose a baby , but we can ensure that in that pain , family be meet with compassion , dignity and privacy , and that begin with a bereavement suite in every newly build maternity ward . question put and agree to . order , that Rosie wrighting , Jen Craft , Dr Marie Tidball , Michelle Welsh , Mr Richard Holden , John Cooper , Lee Barron , Mike Reader and Charlie Dewhirst present the Bill . Rosie wrighting accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May , and to be print ( Bill 226 ) . Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 17 - information notice " ( 1 ) the Social Security Administration Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 109a ( authorisation for investigator ) — ( a ) before subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( A1 ) an individual who for the time being have the Secretary of State ' s authorisation for the purpose of this Part be entitle — ( a ) for any one or more of the purpose mention in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) of subsection ( 2 ) , to exercise any of the power which be confer on an authorise officer by section 109bza ; ( b ) for any one or more of the purpose mention in paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) of subsection ( 2 ) , to exercise any of the power which be confer on an authorise officer by section 109bzb ; ( c ) for any one or more of the purpose mention in subsection ( 2 ) , to exercise any of the power which be confer on an authorise officer by section 109C . " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) for " Secretary of State ' s " substitute " " Scottish Ministers ' " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( d ) , after " offence " insert " or , for the purpose of subsection ( A1 ) , other DWP offence " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 8 ) , for " 109B and 109c below " substitute " 109B to 109c " . ( 3 ) in section 109B ( power to require information ) , in the heading , after " information " insert " : officer authorise by Scottish Ministers " . ( 4 ) after section 109B insert — " 109BZA Power to require information about entitlement etc : officer authorise by Secretary of State ( 1 ) an authorised officer may give a person ( " p " ) a write notice ( an " information notice " ) require p to give an authorised officer the information describe in the notice where the officer have reasonable ground for suspect that p — ( a ) be a person fall within subsection ( 2 ) of section 109B , and ( b ) have or may have possession of or access to any information about any matter that be relevant for any one or more of the purpose mention in section 109a ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( b ) ( entitlement to benefit etc ) . ( 2 ) information may be specify in an information notice only if it be reasonable for the authorised officer to require the information for one or more of the purpose mention in section 109a ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( b ) . ( 3 ) an authorised officer may require P to give specify information only if the officer have reasonable ground to suspect that P have or be able to access the information . ( 4 ) subsection ( 2e ) to ( 4 ) of section 109B apply to an information notice under this section as they apply to a notice under that section . ( 5 ) nothing in this section limit the power confer on the Secretary of State by Schedule 3b . 109bzb power to require information about suspect fraud etc : officer authorise by Secretary of State ( 1 ) an authorised officer may give a person ( " p " ) a write notice ( an " information notice " ) require p to give an authorise officer specify information where the officer — ( a ) have reasonable ground to suspect that a person have commit , be commit or intend to commit a DWP offence , and ( b ) consider that it be necessary and proportionate to require the specify information for a purpose mention in section 109a ( 2 ) ( c ) or ( d ) ( investigate compliance with the relevant social security legislation etc ) . ( 2 ) information may be specify in an information notice only if it relate to a person who be identify ( by name or description ) in the information notice as — ( a ) the person suspect as mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , or ( b ) a member of that person ' s family ( within the meaning of Part 7 of the Contributions and Benefits Act ) . ( 3 ) an authorised officer may require P to give specify information only if the officer have reasonable ground to suspect that P have or be able to access the information . ( 4 ) an information notice must set out — ( a ) the identity ( by name or description ) of the person to whom the information request relate ; ( b ) how , where and the period within which the information must be give ; ( c ) information about the consequence of not comply with the notice . ( 5 ) the power under this section to require P to give information include power to — ( a ) take copy of or extract from information ; ( b ) require p to provide information in a specified form ; ( c ) if any specify information be not give to an authorised officer , require P to state , to the good of p ' s knowledge and belief , both where that information be and why it have not be give to the authorise officer . ( 6 ) subsection ( 2E ) of section 109B ( communication datum ) apply to an information notice under this section as it apply to a notice under that section . ( 7 ) in this section — " information " mean information in the form of a document or in any other form ; " specified " mean — ( a ) specify , or describe , in the information notice , or ( b ) fall within a category that be specify or describe in the information notice . ( 8 ) nothing in this section limit the power confer on the Secretary of State by Schedule 3b . " ( 5 ) in section 109BA ( power of Secretary of State to require electronic access to information ) — ( a ) in the heading , omit " of Secretary of State " ; ( b ) before subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( A1 ) subject to subsection ( 2 ) below , where it appear to the Secretary of State — ( a ) that a person keep any electronic record , ( b ) that the record contain or be likely , from time to time , to contain information about a matter that be relevant for one or more of the purpose mention in section 109a ( 2 ) ( c ) or ( d ) , and ( c ) that facility exist under which electronic access to those record be be provide , or be capable of be provide , by that person to other person , the Secretary of State may require that person to enter into arrangement under which authorise officer be allow such access to those record . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " Secretary of State " , in both place it occur , substitute " Scottish Ministers " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) , after " subsection " , in the first place it occur , insert " ( A1 ) or " , and ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " section 109B above " substitute " — ( i ) in the case of arrangement enter into under subsection ( A1 ) , section 109bzb ; ( ii ) in the case of arrangement enter into under subsection ( 1 ) , section 109B . " ; ( e ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after " subsection " insert " ( A1 ) or " ; ( f ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( i ) after " subsection " insert " ( A1 ) or " , and ( ii ) for " section 109B " substitute " — ( a ) in the case of arrangement enter into under subsection ( A1 ) , section 109bzb ; ( b ) in the case of arrangement enter into under subsection ( 1 ) , section 109B . " " . — ( Andrew Western . ) this new clause would replace clause 72 . it revise the amendment to the Social Security Administration Act 1992 make by clause 72 so that the power of the Scottish Ministers under the Act be substantially unchanged . bring up , and read the first time . motion make , and question propose , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 18 — consequential amendment to the Social Security Fraud Act 2001 . government new clause 19 — devolve benefit . government new clause 20 — power of Scottish Ministers . new clause 1 — Recovery of overpayment of Carer ' s allowance — " the Secretary of State may not exercise any of the power of recovery under this Act in relation to a person who have receive an overpayment of Carer ' s Allowance until such time as — ( a ) the Secretary of State have commission an independent review of the overpayment of Carer ' s Allowance ; ( b ) the review have conclude its inquiry and submit a report contain recommendation to the Secretary of State ; ( c ) the Secretary of State have lay the report of the independent review before Parliament ; and ( d ) the Secretary of State have implement the recommendation of the independent review . " this new clause would delay any payment be take from people who the Government may think owe repayment on Carer ' s Allowance until the independent review into Carer ' s Allowance overpayment have be publish and fully implement . new clause 2 — Impact of Act on people face financial exclusion — " ( 1 ) the independent person appoint under section 64 ( 1 ) of this Act must carry out an assessment of the impact of this Act on the number of people face financial exclusion . ( 2 ) the independent person must , after 12 month of the passing of the Act — ( a ) prepare a report on the review , and ( b ) submit the report to the Minister . ( 3 ) on receive a report the Minister must — ( a ) publish it , and ( b ) lie a copy before Parliament . " this new clause would look into the impact of the Act on people face financial exclusion . new clause 3 — Audit of algorithmic system use in relation to Carer ' s Allowance overpayment — " ( 1 ) an independent audit of algorithmic system use in the assessment , detection or recovery of Carer ' s Allowance overpayment must be conduct at least once every six month . ( 2 ) any audit under subsection ( 1 ) must be conduct by person with relevant expertise in data science , ethic and social policy who have no direct affiliation with — ( a ) the Department for Work and Pensions , or ( b ) any person or body involve in the development or operation of the algorithmic system under review . ( 3 ) an audit conduct under this section must consider — ( a ) the accuracy of the algorithmic system in identify overpayment , and ( b ) the fairness of the system ' design , application and operation , include any disproportionate impact on particular group . ( 4 ) after every audit a report on its finding must be — ( a ) publish ; ( b ) lay before both Houses of Parliament within 14 day of publication ; and ( c ) make publicly available in an accessible format . ( 5 ) if any audit identify significant inaccuracy , unfairness or bias in any algorithmic system , the Secretary of State must , within 30 day of the publication of the report outline these finding , present an action plan to Parliament which outline the step which the Government intend to take to address the identify issue . " this new clause would provide for an audit of algorithmic system use in relation to Carer ' s Allowance overpayment . new clause 4 — Inclusion of system within the Algorithmic Transparency Reporting Standard — " ( 1 ) for the purpose of this section , " system " mean — ( a ) algorithm , algorithmic tool , and system ; and ( b ) artificial intelligence , include machine learning ; provide that they be use in fulfil the purpose of this Act . ( 2 ) where at any time after the passage of this Act , the use of any system be — ( a ) commence ; ( b ) amend ; or ( c ) discontinue ; the Minister must , as soon as reasonably practicable , accordingly include information about the system in the Algorithmic Transparency Reporting Standard . " this new clause would require the use of algorithm , algorithmic tool , and system , and artificial intelligence , include machine learning , to be include within the Algorithmic Transparency Reporting Standard . new clause 5 — duty to consider domestic abuse risk to account holder — " ( 1 ) before any direct deduction order under Schedule 5 be make , the Secretary of State have a duty to consider its effect on any person who — ( a ) be a victim of domestic abuse , or ( b ) the Minister reasonably believe to be at risk of domestic abuse . ( 2 ) in this section " domestic abuse " have the meaning give by section 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . " new clause 6 — Review of whistle blow process in relation to public sector fraud — " ( 1 ) Secretary of State must , within one year of the passing of this Act , conduct a review of whistle blow process in relation to fraud in the public sector . ( 2 ) a review conduct under this section must consider — ( a ) the appropriateness and efficacy of exist whistle blow process ; ( b ) barrier to report fraud and reason for under reporting of fraud ; and ( c ) recommendation for change . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish a report contain — ( a ) the finding and conclusion of the review , and ( b ) a timetable for the delivery of any recommendation for change within six month of the completion of the review . " new clause 7 — overpayment make as a result of official error — " ( 1 ) Section 71zb of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " the " substitute " subject to subsection ( 1A ) , the " . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) the amount refer to in subsection ( 1 ) shall not include any overpayment that arise in consequence of an official error where the claimant or a person act on the claimant ' s behalf or any other person to whom the payment be make could not , at the time of receipt of the payment or of any notice relate to that payment , reasonably have be expect to realise that it be an overpayment . " " this new clause would provide that , where universal credit overpayment have be cause by official error , they can only be recover where the claimant could reasonably have be expect to realise that there be an overpayment . new clause 8 — offence of fraud against a public authority — " ( 1 ) a person who - ( a ) commit , ( b ) assist or conspire in the committal of , or ( c ) encourage the committal of , fraud against a public authority commit an offence . ( 2 ) a person who commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) be liable - ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year . " new clause 9 — application of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 to investigation conduct by the Department for Work and Pensions — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , introduce regulation for the purpose of apply certain power of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 , subject to such modification as the order may specify , to investigation of offence conduct by the Department for Work and Pensions . ( 2 ) the power to be apply must include – ( a ) the power of arrest ; ( b ) any other such power that the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 3 ) Regulations make under this section shall be make by statutory instrument . " new clause 10 — liability order — " ( 1 ) where a person – ( a ) have be find guilty of an offence under section 1 or section 11 of the Fraud Act 2006 , or the offence at common law of conspiracy to defraud , ( b ) that offence relate to fraud commit against a public authority , and ( c ) have not pay the require penalty or not make the require repayment , the Secretary of State must apply to a magistrate ' court or , in Scotland , to the sheriff for an order ( " a liability order " ) against the liable person . ( 2 ) where the Secretary of State apply for a liability order , the magistrate ' court or ( as the case may be ) sheriff shall make the order if satisfy that the payment in question have become payable by the liable person and have not be pay . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may make regulation in relation to England and Wales — ( a ) prescribe the procedure to be follow in deal with an application by the Secretary of State for a liability order ; ( b ) prescribe the form and content of a liability order ; and ( c ) provide that where a magistrate ' court have make a liability order , the person against whom it be make shall , during such time as the amount in respect of which the order be make remain wholly or partly unpaid , be under a duty to supply relevant information to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) where a liability order have be make against a person ( " the liable person " ) , the Secretary of State may use the procedure in Schedule 12 to the Tribunals , Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 ( take control of good ) to recover the amount in respect of which the order be make , to the extent that it remain unpaid . " new clause 11 — Publication of result of pilot scheme — " within three month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish the result of any pilot scheme run with bank to test the provision in chapter 1 of Part 2 . " new clause 12 — report on cost implication for bank — " the Secretary of State must , within three month of the passing of this Act , publish a report on the expect cost implication of the provision of this Act for bank . " new clause 13 — annual reporting of amount recover — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an annual report detail the amount of money which have be recover under the provision of this Act . ( 2 ) a first report must be publish no later than 12 month after the passing of this Act with subsequent report publish at interval of no more than 12 month . " new clause 14 — Impact of Act on vulnerable customer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament an assessment of the expect impact of the Act on vulnerable customer . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " vulnerable customer " mean someone who , due to their personal circumstance , be especially susceptible to harm , particularly when a firm be not act with appropriate level of care . " new clause 15 — publication of an Anti - Fraud and Error Technology Strategy — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish an Anti - Fraud and Error Technology Strategy . ( 2 ) an Anti - Fraud and Error Technology Strategy publish under this section must set out – ( a ) how the Government intend to use automated technology or artificial intelligence to tackle fraud against public authority and the making of erroneous payment by public authority , and ( b ) a series of safeguard to provide for human oversight of decision making that meet the aim set out in subsection ( 3 ) ; ( c ) how right of appeal will be protect ; ( d ) a framework for privacy and datum sharing . ( 3 ) the aim of the safeguard in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) be — ( a ) to ensure that ground for decision making can only be reasonable if they be the result of a process in which there have be meaningful human involvement by a human of adequate expertise to scrutinise any insight or recommendation make by automated system , ( b ) to make clear that ground can not be reasonable if they be the result of an entirely automate process , and ( c ) to ensure that any information notice issue be accompany by a statement — ( i ) set out the reasonable ground for suspicion that have be rely on , and ( ii ) confirm that the conclusion have be form on the basis of human involvement . " new clause 21 — offence of encourage or assist other to commit fraud — " ( 1 ) the Social Security Administration Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 111a ( dishonest representation for obtain benefit etc ) , after subsection ( 1 g ) insert — " ( 1h ) a person commit an offence if they — ( a ) encourage or assist another person to commit an offence under this section , or ( b ) provide guidance on how to commit an offence under this section . ( 1i ) an offence under this section can be commit where the encouragement , assistance or guidance happen online . ( 1j ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceed five year or an unlimited fine . " ( 3 ) in section 112 ( false representation for obtain benefit etc ) , after subsection ( 1F ) insert — " ( 1 g ) a person commit an offence if they — ( a ) encourage or assist another person to commit an offence under this section , or ( b ) provide guidance on how to commit an offence under this section . ( 1h ) an offence under this section can be commit where the encouragement , assistance or guidance happen online . ( 1i ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceed five year or an unlimited fine . " " new clause 22 — Impact of Act on people with protect characteristic — " the Secretary of State must , prior to make regulation under section 103 to bring into force any provision of this Act , lie before Parliament an assessment of the expect impact of the Act on people with protect characteristic who be in receipt of social security benefit . " this new clause would ensure any impact of the Bill on people with protect characteristic in receipt of social security benefit be examine prior to the Act ' s implementation . new clause 23 — report on public sector fraud during COVID - 19 pandemic — " ( 1 ) the Minister for the Cabinet Office must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report evaluate the extent of public sector fraud that occur during the COVID - 19 pandemic . ( 2 ) the report must include — ( a ) an account of fraudulent or erroneous payment make by or on behalf of public authority , include but not limit to the Department of Health and Social Care and NHS England , ( b ) a review of how public procurement practice in place between March 2020 and December 2021 , include — ( i ) the use of high priority and expedite contracting for supplier , and ( ii ) the role of political appointment and personal connection in procurement decision , may have contribute to fraud against public authority , ( c ) the cost to the public purse of fraud against public authority during the COVID - 19 pandemic , and ( d ) an assessment of the adequacy of Government oversight and other measure then in place to prevent fraud against public authority . ( 3 ) where the report find or conclude that there be — ( a ) failing in Government oversight and other measure then in place to prevent fraud against public authority , or ( b ) any action or inaction by the Government which enable fraud against public authority , the Minister must make a statement to the House of Commons acknowledge these finding and set out action plan to ensure any failing be not repeat . " amendment 15 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 10 , leave out " 10 " and insert " 28 . " government amendment 23 and 24 . amendment 16 , in clause 4 , page 3 , line 33 , leave out " Minister " and insert " First Tier Tribunal " . amendment 13 , page 3 , line 33 , after " notice " insert " or of the duration of the period mention in section 3 ( 4 ) ( a ) " . amendment 80 , page 3 , line 34 , leave out " 7 " and insert " 28 " . amendment 17 , page 3 , line 36 , leave out " Minister " and insert " First Tier Tribunal " . amendment 18 , page 3 , line 38 , leave out " Minister " and insert " First Tier Tribunal " . amendment 14 , page 4 , line 2 , after " notice " insert " , include by extend the duration of the period mention in section 3 ( 4 ) ( a ) where satisfied that the person be reasonably unable to comply with the requirement to provide the information within the time require by the notice " . amendment 19 , page 4 , line 3 , leave out " Minister " and insert " First Tier Tribunal " . Amendment 81 , page 4 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) where a person have apply for a review of an information notice , the period mention in section 3 ( 4 ) ( a ) be to be treat as begin on the day after which the outcome of the review be notify to the person to whom the information notice be give . " government amendment 25 to 29 . amendment 1 , in clause 64 , page 34 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) prior to appoint an independent person , the Minister must consult the relevant committee of the House of Commons . ( 1b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1A ) , " the relevant committee " mean a committee determine by the Speaker of the House of Commons . " this amendment would provide for parliamentary oversight of the appointment of the " independent person " . government amendment 30 , 31 , 76 , 75 , 32 and 33 . amendment 2 , page 40 , line 36 , leave out clause 74 . this amendment remove the requirement for bank to look into relevant claimant ' bank account . amendment 3 , in clause 75 , page 41 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) prior to appoint an independent person , the Minister must consult the relevant committee of the House of Commons . ( 1b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1A ) , " the relevant committee " mean a committee determine by the Speaker of the House of Commons . " this amendment would provide for parliamentary oversight of the appointment of the " independent person " . government amendment 34 to 43 . amendment 8 , in clause 89 , page 55 , line 6 , leave out from " unless " to the end of line 14 and insert — " ( a ) the liable person agree , or ( b ) there have be a final determination by a court or tribunal that it be necessary and proportionate to exercise a power under Schedule 3za . " this amendment would mean that the Secretary of State can only exercise power to recover amount from a person where the person agree or where a court or tribunal have determine that such recovery be necessary and proportionate . amendment 10 , page 56 , line 16 , leave out clause 91 . government amendment 79 , 78 , 77 , 74 , 73 and 44 . amendment 4 , in clause 103 , page 63 , line 29 , leave out from start to " follow " in line 32 and insert — " subject to subsection ( 1A ) and ( 2 ) , this Act come into force on such day as the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may by regulation appoint . ( 1A ) no part of this Act may come into force until the recommendation of a report commission under section [ Recovery of overpayment of Carer ' s Allowance ] have be implement . ( 2 ) subject to subsection ( 1A ) , the " this amendment which would delay the implementation of the whole Act until the finding of the independent review into Carer ' s Allowance overpayment have be publish and fully implement . amendment 20 , page 64 , line 1 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) before bring into force any of the provision of Part 1 of this Act , the Secretary of State must consult with bank as to the cost which will be incur by bank upon application of the provision of Part 1 . ( 3b ) where consultation find that the expect cost to bank be at a disproportionate level , the Secretary of State may not bring into force the provision which be expect to result in such disproportionate cost . " government amendment 72 and 45 . amendment 5 , page 73 , line 6 , leave out schedule 3 . this amendment be relate to Amendment 2 and remove the requirement for bank to look into relevant claimant ' bank account . amendment 11 , in schedule 3 , page 73 , line 25 , leave out from " account " to the end of line 31 and insert — " which belong to a person who the authorised officer have reasonable ground to suspect have commit , be commit or intend to commit a DWP offence . " this amendment would limit the exercise of an eligibility verification notice to case where the welfare recipient be suspect of wrongdoing . amendment 22 , page 84 , line 12 , at end insert " ( d ) housing benefit . " Amendment 6 , page 84 , leave out line 12 this amendment would remove pension credit from be a " relevant benefit " for the purpose of the Act . Amendment 71 , page 84 , line 13 , leave out from " to " to end of line 17 and insert — " remove type of benefit from the definition of " . this amendment would mean that benefit could not be add to the list of " relevant benefit " by regulation . amendment 7 , page 84 , leave out line 13 to 17 . this amendment ensure that the bill can only be use in relation to benefit list in the Bill . amendment 21 , page 84 , line 25 , after " money " insert " or such an account which be hold by a person appoint to receive benefit on behalf of another person . " government amendment 46 to 67 . amendment 9 , in schedule 5 , page 98 , line 10 , leave out from begin to end of line 24 on page 99 . this amendment would remove the requirement for bank to provide information to the Secretary of State for the purpose of make a direct deduction order . government amendment 68 and 69 . amendment 12 , page 111 , line 18 , leave out schedule 6 . government amendment 70 . it be my pleasure to bring this Bill back to the House . I start by thank all member who have make contribution so far , and extend a special thank to member of the Bill Committee , some of whom be present today , for their detailed scrutiny . this Government have an ambitious plan for change . to deliver everything we want to achieve , we must spend taxpayer ' money wisely , which be why we commit in our manifesto not to tolerate fraud or waste anywhere in our public service . the Bill deliver on that commitment . it be part of the big crackdown on fraud against the public purse in a generation . nothing less will do , give the appalling position we inherit . do the Minister recognise that the Government ' s own assessment of the effectiveness of the Bill be that it will recover a tiny 1 . 8 % of loss ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that we lose a total of £ 55 billion a year to fraud across the public sector ; the Bill will recover £ 1 . 5 billion . however , it be part of broad measure — certainly on the Department for Work and Pensions side of the Bill — to save £ 9 . 6 billion across the forecast period . by the very nature of the change that we be make with the Public Sector Fraud Authority , we be design they to be scalable . as the psfa become more familiar with the work it be undertake , we think that it will be able to save a significant amount more . as I be say , Madam Deputy Speaker , with benefit fraud alone cost £ 7 . 4 billion in 2023 - 24 , this be a major problem that be get bad , not well . we can not afford to ignore it , and we certainly do not accept it . fraud against the public sector be not a victimless crime . our public service , everyone who depend on they , and the taxpayer who fund they , all suffer . and they be increasingly suffer at the hand of fraudster who use ever more sophisticated technique to steal money mean for the public good . the private sector have evolve and adapt its tool and tactic to respond , but , as the scale of the loss that I have just outline make clear , the same can not yet be say for the public sector . with this Bill , we will put that right . there will be new power for the Public Sector Fraud Authority to investigate and deal with public sector fraud outside the tax and social security system , and new power for the DWP to modernise its response to fraud and error in the benefit system . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say on Second Reading , this Bill be tough and it be fair . it be tough on the dodgy business people who try to defraud our public service and it be tough on the criminal gang and individual who cheat the benefit system . it be fair to claimant who make genuine mistake , by help we to spot and prevent error early . and it be fair to taxpayer , who deserve to know that every single pound of their hard - earn money be be spend wisely . the Human Rights Act 1998 be one of the good piece of legislation ever pass by a Labour Government . can the Minister assure the House that this Bill in no way contravene the secrecy part of the 1998 Act ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance and , indeed , that all of our legal obligation have be satisfied as part of the consideration of this Bill . the imperative thing for I as a Minister in the Department for Work and Pensions be that we be support those who need the social security safety net , not the fraudster who pick hole in it . one concern that we have be the change in the way that people conduct benefit fraud . through the use of key buzzword , they help people to navigate the system so that they be able to take out of it what be not theirs . do he think that there be scope in the Bill , particularly in some of the new clause , to include specific legislation to prevent people from use word and buzzword , or from teach other people how to cheat the benefit system ? the hon . Gentleman be correct that we have a problem with so - call " sickfluencer " , but as we will hear in the debate more broadly , the Government do have exist power through the Fraud Act 2006 and the Serious Crime Act 2007 to take action in those area if necessary . he be right to suggest that we should be do more , and I encourage Conservative Members to reflect on what they do in this space during their period in power . he will be reassure to know that I have commission work within the Department to look at what far we can do , but in legislative term — [ interruption . ] I do believe that we have somebody cross the Floor , Madam Deputy Speaker . just for the record , in case Hansard do not pick that up , that be Jennie the dog cross the Floor , not a Member of Parliament . I be sure the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) be grateful to you for that clarification , Madam Deputy Speaker , even if I be not , as Jennie would always be most welcome on this side of the House . I hope that I have reassure the hon . Gentleman that we do have the legislation require to act . the Minister say that power exist , but , plainly , they be not work , because we know that " sickfluencer " be do their deed and people be respond to they , particularly in the mental health sphere , where many of the claim be make . indeed , we know that official , or those act on behalf of official , be look out for buzzword , because , if there be a buzzword in there somewhere , they can bank the case and move on to the next one . therefore , something plainly need to be do to stop this . will he look again at the Opposition ' s new clause 8 and 21 , which would ensure that " sickfluencer " be target specifically , and say what , in the Government ' s amend term , they would do to deal with this particular group that be contribute significantly to the failure identify by my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) in relation to the amount of money that we be able to claim back from the huge sum that be lose to fraud every year ? I very much agree with the right hon . Gentleman that more need to be do ; what we differ on be the need for specific legislation in that regard . where we be fall down at present be in the scale of the activity we be undertake . we could be do significantly more at the moment , but as I say in response to the previous intervention , I have commission work to ensure that that happen . we already routinely contact social medium company to ask they to take down specific post that could help people to commit fraud against the welfare system . I be very happy to consider practical point , but I be convinced that we have the legislative weaponry require to take the necessary action to deal with people who be encourage other to commit fraud , both online and elsewhere . government amendment 23 , 24 , 39 and 40 bring into scope the kind of information necessary for fraud investigation and enable the psfa and DWP to compel certain type of special procedure material , include banking record or record of employment , in line with the policy intent . request this type of information be not new for DWP and occur under its exist power . the amendment ensure that the PSFA and DWP can compel this information to support fraud investigation , while also ensure that important exemption be in place , such as those for exclude material and journalistic material . government amendment 30 and 31 seek to address two separate issue in respect of clause 67 . government amendment 30 include a provision in the Bill so that the power grant to the psfa under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 — or PACE — by clause 7 of the Bill be exempt from the application of clause 67 ( 5 ) . this will ensure that the clause do not interfere with exist PACE provision in relation to legal professional privilege , enable the Bill ' s PACE measure to function as intend . government amendment 31 remove subsection ( 6 ) in clause 67 , which currently override exist self - incrimination protection on the psfa ' s information - gather power and PACE power . this allow the common law principle of the privilege against self - incrimination to apply in the usual way — under the information - gather power — and ensure that the propose PACE power align with establish PACE practice . the amendment ensure that clause 67 provide essential safeguard for the psfa power in the Bill relate to the processing of information . I be sure the Minister will accept that there be grow concern about issue of automate decision making , artificial intelligence and algorithm . while want to ensure that we get the good result , be the Minister able to commit to the transparency we need when it come to AI and algorithm in relation to the Bill to ensure that the most vulnerable in our society be not unfairly hit ? the hon . member will be pleased to know that I can give he that assurance and that we comply with all the Government ' s require standard around the publication of such information . government amendment 25 and 26 relate to clause 9 , which amend the Police Reform Act 2002 to extend the Independent Office for Police Conduct director general ' s function to include oversight of public sector fraud investigator , enable they to consider psfa ' s use of PACE power and associated investigation . clause 9 also enable the Minister for the Cabinet Office to issue regulation confer function on the director general in relation to these investigation . section 105 of the Police Reform Act 2002 set out requirement for such regulation make under that Act . however , section 105 only apply to regulation make by a Secretary of State . as the Cabinet Office have no Secretary of State , this section would not include the regulation that the Minister for the Cabinet Office can make under clause 9 . government amendment 26 correct that technicality so that section 105 also apply to that Minister . in addition , Government amendment 25 simply remove reference to part 2 of the Police Reform Act 2002 within clause 9 ( 1 ) , as the Bill will refer to the Act more widely , rather than just part 2 . government amendment 48 and 72 provide a clear legislative framework for how the DWP and the psfa will handle and transfer seize evidence to the most appropriate law enforcement agency , include the National Crime Agency and the Serious Fraud Office . the amendment will ensure that evidence be handle by the organisation well equip to deal with the specific nature of the alleged crime , foster inter - agency collaboration and reduce delay to investigation . government amendment 27 to 29 , 68 and 69 clarify the maximum amount to be deduct from a debtor ' s bank by the psfa and the DWP via a regular direct deduction order under clause 17 and in schedule 5 respectively . the amendment will ensure that the cap be set at a percentage of what the person would reasonably be expect to receive each month , and they provide flexibility to amend that . they will ensure that any deduction be still fair and affordable and do not exceed the maximum percentage set out . other factor such as the ability to repay will be consider and mean that in most case the deduction amount will be low than those rate . government amendment 75 and 76 will allow the psfa to investigate and pursue enforcement action in respect of the offence in section 6 and 7 of the Fraud Act 2006 . those offensive involve possess , make and supply article for use in fraud against a public authority . the amendment will enable the psfa to tackle the wide range of influencer - style offence , which we discuss early , in the same way that the DWP already can , which be a matter of concern to some Bill Committee member . government new clause 17 , 19 and 20 and Government amendment 32 , 35 , 42 , 43 and 46 seek to ensure the correct application of the power in part 2 of the Bill to devolve benefit . in 2020 , full responsibility for devolved benefit be transfer to the Scottish Parliament and Scottish Government . however , the DWP continue to deliver some benefit to claimant in Scotland under agency agreement on behalf of Scottish Ministers until the Scottish Government be able to administer those benefit themselves . the DWP deliver those benefit in line with how it deliver equivalent benefit in England and Wales . the intent be that the measure in part 2 of the Bill will apply to those devolve benefit that the DWP deliver under agency agreement in line with equivalent benefit in England and Wales . government new clause 19 and 20 clarify that the Secretary of State can exercise the new investigatory power in the Bill with devolved benefit only where those be administer by the Secretary of State on behalf of Scottish Ministers . they also clarify that Scottish Ministers ' exist power under the Social Security Administration Act 1992 be not change by this part of the Bill . government new clause 17 and Government amendment 32 and 46 ensure that the exist information gathering power contain under section 109A to 109C remain unchanged by the Bill for Scottish Ministers . that have result in some reordering and redrafte in clause 72 , where the DWP ' s new information - gather power under the Bill be hold . government amendment 35 clarify the position in relation to devolve benefit in clause 85 , ensure that the exemption contain in propose new section 109H do not impact Scottish Ministers ' power under the 1992 Act . the Minister be presumably keen to determine how much money be lose to fraud in Scotland , and I imagine he will require the Scottish Government to report back to the UK Government on their progress in clamp down on benefit fraud , but the same should apply in the rest of the country . that , of course , be the purpose of new clause 13 , which would require an annual report on the amount of money recover through the process that he have outline . will he accept new clause 13 ? will he also assure I on the point about the Scottish Government ' s reporting of fraud ? I assure the right hon . member on his point with regard to the Scottish Government . however , I will resist new clause 13 because the publication of the DWP ' s annual account will provide sufficient information about our performance on fraud and error . government amendment 42 specifie that the function of the independent person who can be appoint by the Secretary of State in clause 87 do not apply to devolve benefit unless those be deliver by the Secretary of State under agency agreement . government amendment 60 and 67 will amend the time require for compliance with a production order serve in Scotland . that be to match normal convention in Scotland . government amendment 43 ensure that the new debt recovery power take by the Secretary of State under the Bill apply only to devolve benefit , while the Secretary of State recover devolve debt under agency agreement . government new clause 18 and Government amendment 33 be consequential amendment to the Social Security Fraud Act 2001 and ensure that the power of Scottish Ministers under the 2001 Act be unchanged by the Bill . government amendment 36 , 37 and 38 seek to clarify exemption in the DWP ' s information - gather power to deliver the intended policy outcome . a key safeguard in the new DWP information - gather power be the exclusion of personal information about user of particular type of free service , such as advocacy and advice service that offer crisis support , for example when someone be flee domestic abuse . the intent of the safeguard be to ensure that nobody be deter from seek the support they need when they need it . however , the current drafting of that exemption in the Bill as " not for profit " be too broad . that exclude certain information that be very likely to be relevant to a DWP fraud investigation . for example , it prevent the Department from compelling information from housing association , such as an individual ' s address or tenancy , which can be instrumental in prove or disprove a suspicion of fraud . the independent person be require to produce an annual report on the use of the new power , which , as the Minister have just lay out , be quite extensive . however , there be no requirement for the DWP to adopt the report ' s recommendation . in case where it do not accept the recommendation , will the Government consider commit to at least explain why they have reach that conclusion ? I would be very happy to report to the House on the reason why we would not do that . I be sure the hon . Lady will allow I to write to she separately to set out how I intend for we to do that . it seem to be a reasonable request . return to my original point , the current drafting would mean that DWP can compel information of that kind from private landlord or estate agent , but not from housing association . there be an inequity there that we be seek to address with the amendment , clarify the drafting and continue to protect the personal information of service user of crisis support or advocacy service . the Bill also bring forward new information - gather power that govern how DWP - authorise officer can compel information to support an investigation into fraud . it also set out where information must not be compel — for example , to protect the long - stand principle of legal professional privilege . separately , the Bill bring forward power of entry , search and seizure for DWP - authorise investigator , those task with investigate the most serious case of fraud . it do that by bring those authorise investigator under the remit of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 in England and Wales , and by create similar power in Scotland for DWP - authorise investigator . that ensure that those investigator be govern by a similar legal framework to other law enforcement body that be grant access to use those type of power . government amendment 41 seek to ensure that the exemption to information that DWP - authorise officer can compel be not applicable to authorised investigator when use power of entry , search and seizure . government amendment 45 mirror that provision for the psfa . those amendment will support effective fraud investigation , as without access , crucial evidence might remain out of reach , slow down our response to fraud . those exemption be important , but the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 , which apply in England and Wales , already provide such restriction and safeguard by only enable that information to be compel with the approval of the court , couple with similar convention that apply for Scotland . the amendment ensure that there be no duplication . the power in the Bill remain in line with exist convention , as set out in PACE , and correctly reflect the norm of the scottish legal system . turn to Government amendment 61 to 66 , paragraph 10 of schedule 3zd currently refer to definition within PACE in relation to special procedure material , confidential professional material , exclude material and item subject to legal privilege . government amendment 63 and 51 set out specific definition to avoid link provision that relate solely to Scotland with exist legislation that apply to England and Wales . this also ensure that legal privilege and " item subject to legal privilege " reference contain in the schedule be correctly define for Scotland . government amendment 61 , 62 , 64 , 65 and 66 be consequential to amendment 63 . government amendment 47 and 48 ensure that the power for the DWP under PACE take by the Bill in schedule 4 be align with those of the police and other Government Departments , such as HMRC , and provide a clear legal framework for what evidence can be seize and how it should be handle . government amendment 47 and 48 mean that DWP - authorise investigator , such as the police , can seize item that be reasonably believe to be evidence of an offence , not just DWP - relate offence , when undertake entry , search and seizure activity in England and Wales . this will mean that potential evidence of any other offence , if discover in the course of a search , can be preserve and may be seize where it be consider necessary to prevent it from be destroy or move . the amendment ensure that the law be clear on how it must be handle and transfer to the most appropriate law enforcement agency in England and Wales . government amendment 49 , 50 and 59 make similar provision for authorised investigator in Scotland to those I have just describe for England and Wales . government amendment 57 and 58 clarify how authorised investigator can prevent access to seize evidence from any offence if it may prejudice criminal proceeding in Scotland , by amend the definition of " offence " in schedule 3zd insert by schedule 4 of this Act . this mirror the same provision that be already in the Bill as it apply to England and Wales . government amendment 53 , 54 , 55 and 56 be all minor and technical amendment to correct inconsistency in terminology . government amendment 34 be a minor and technical amendment to provide the correct reference to power in the Social Security Administration Act 1992 , to ensure that the power in Scotland align with those in England and Wales . government amendment 52 amend the period of time in which a warrant must be exercise to Scotland from three month to one month . this correct the Bill to ensure that it be consistent with the usual practice in Scotland . government amendment 70 ensure that the court have the power to order a person , have be disqualify , to provide their NI or EU drive licence , as be already the case for those hold a GB licence , under the new debt recovery power . the Bill as draft would allow a DWP debtor who evade payment and hold an NI or EU licence to be disqualify from drive . however , it inadvertently limit the court ' s ability to order that person to produce their licence unless it be issue in Great Britain , undermine the power and cause administrative difficulty for the court and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency . government amendment 70 correct this and ensure parity between GB , NI and EU drive licence under the power in schedule 6 . government amendment 73 , 74 , 77 , 78 and 79 ensure that the application and limitation period in clause 99 follow the policy intention that the psfa can investigate fraud and recover debt in England and Wales . government amendment 44 also ensure that the DWP ' s debt recovery power in this Bill be not limited in Scotland to the usual five - year time limit in the Prescription and Limitation ( Scotland ) Act 1973 . this make it clear that the long 20 - year recovery period in Scotland apply to such provision introduce or amend by this Bill . as I have set out , the intent behind these amendment be to ensure the delivery of the intended policy intent or to ensure the correct territorial application of the Bill . I thank the Minister for give way , and I hope he will forgive I for wait till what appear to be the end of his list . when the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) ask he about the application of the Human Rights Act in this context , he say that the Bill do not breach it , in effect . my advice be a little different , and I wait to hear about his amendment to see whether anything in they change that . my advice be that suspicionless financial surveillance could breach article 8 , which cover the right to privacy , and article 14 on the prohibition of discrimination . will the Minister make his legal advice on this available to the House ? this be incredibly important and it be central to the major criticism of this Bill . I have already make clear that I be satisfied with the advice I have receive . we will make available all the information we be require to make available , but the right hon . Member will appreciate that I be not able to give an undertaking to release all legal advice at this stage . what I can say to he be that I be very confident that there be no breach of article 8 in particular . that have be explore at length as we have go through the process . I welcome the ongoing engagement with industry and key stakeholder . we have make a significant effort to engage all interested party and listen to their view . that feedback have be important in shape our approach to the Bill to date and will continue to be so as it move to the other place . before I finish , I will make some quick remark about the non - Government amendment on the DWP eligibility verification measure and debt recovery power . amendment 2 and 5 from the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) would remove the eligibility verification measure entirely . I must resist that . we have a fundamental disagreement about the proportionality of the measure , and I think his concern continue to be misplace . we explore this at length in Committee . I appreciate where he be come from and his perspective , but I disagree with he . when fulfil our duty to protect public money , we must also balance individual ' right to privacy . these power will include robust safeguard , report mechanism and independent oversight to give confidence that they will be use fairly and effectively . the Information Commissioner himself have welcome the change make to previous iteration of the eligibility verification measure , which address many of the concern he have have with the previous Government ' s Data Protection and Digital Information Bill . I must also highlight the importance of the measure from a fiscal perspective . it alone will save £ 940 million over the next five year and £ 500 million annually once fully roll out . similarly , amendment 11 from my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) seek to restrict the eligibility verification power for use only when there be a suspicion of fraud . that would undermine the measure entirely , as there be exist information gather power sufficient to deal with such case . we require the power because it will enable well datum sharing between the private and public sector to help check that claimant be meet the criterion for their benefit and to detect incorrect payment at an early stage before any suspicion of wrongdoing have arise . it be not a power to be use to respond to suspect fraud . information will not be share with the DWP under the assumption that a claimant be guilty of any wrongdoing . the DWP must look into why the account have be flag by the bank and ascertain whether an incorrect payment have be make . that be why , follow receipt of the information from bank , the DWP will make further inquiry to determine whether a benefit have be incorrectly pay and whether that be due to fraud or error . it would be impossible for the DWP to suspect fraud before it have even establish that a benefit have be incorrectly pay . amendment 8 and 9 from my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) would reduce the effectiveness of the propose debt power within the Bill . the Department can already apply to the court for a third party debt order , and a key reason for introduce the direct deduction order be to recover more public money without unnecessarily use the court ' s time . it be also highly unlikely that debtor who have repeatedly refuse to engage with the Department and repay voluntarily will suddenly agree to recovery take place directly from their bank account . I remind the House that obtain information from bank , include relevant bank statement , under this measure be a vital safeguard to establish an affordable deduction rate where someone have refuse to engage . it will prevent further issue for a debtor than the use of court could bring about — for instance , a county court judgment or court cost — and it will enable the Department to use regular as well as lump sum deduction order . I look forward to the debate and to respond to colleague ' contribution in my closing remark . I echo the Minister ' s comment about the work of the Bill Committee . we have a constructive few week get into the nitty - gritty . I have no doubt that the House will agree that fraud be unacceptable , whether against individual , organisation or the state . the money take do not belong to those responsible . when it come to defraud the government , money be take from every single taxpayer . at the same time , however , error do unfortunately happen . they might be make accidentally by the claimant or by the Department . although there be no ill intention , error can still be costly to the taxpayer , and that impact some of the most vulnerable people in our country . the question , then , be how good to tackle fraud and error in the welfare state and the public sector . although we welcome many of the principle behind the Bill — much of which build on the work of the Conservatives before the general election , as I be sure will be mention many time this afternoon — we be concerned that it have be rush through . on one hand , there be gap where the legislation be not tough enough . it be not a strong deterrent to make potential fraudster think again , and it do not sufficiently safeguard public money . on the other hand , part of the Bill have not be sufficiently prepare , and be incredibly vague and unclear on their implication for those involve and on whether the benefit justify the cost . this issue must be consider in the context of a sickness benefit bill that be forecast to hit nearly £ 1 billion by the end of the decade — even after the Government ' s questionable welfare reform — which be vastly more than we spend on defence , and more than we spend on school and policing . we have table a number of amendment to address those point . new clause 21 and 8 seek to tackle the rise in so - call sickfluencer on social medium , such as those on TikTok and YouTube who post video show people how they might be able to make fraudulent claim for benefit , include the personal independence payment , which require not medical evidence but self - assessment . as we have hear , the advice offer include specific buzzword , template claim and guidance on pass question at interview stage to inflate the value of claim fraudulently . we do not want to target people who provide genuine advice and guidance to people about how the welfare system and public authority work , but that be very different from provide assistance and encouragement to commit fraud , which be not acceptable . we recognise the vital work of not - for - profit organisation such as Citizens Advice — which work right across the country , include in South Hams and Plymouth in my constituency — and group such as improve live Plymouth . they do much to support those seek to claim what they be entitle to . however , online sickfluencer must be tackle . in Committee , the Minister query our new clause and ask why it provide only for a seven - year prison sentence when similar offence carry a 10 - year sentence . we have address that in new clause 21 and 8 , which , as the Minister will see , propose a 10 - year sentence to bring they into line with similar offence . in their response to my question about sickfluencer , the Government say that relevant legislation be already in place . if that be the case , how many conviction have there be under that legislation ? we could infer from that number whether or not the system be work and what we need to do . my suspicion be that we need these measure to be able to hold people to account . I echo my hon . friend ' s concern that the exist power be not be use enough . I ask the Minister to give we further information on how those power be be use and an assurance that they will be use far should our new clause be unsuccessful . we believe that create a specific offence to target such online fraud would send the clear message to sickfluencer that what they be do be not only morally wrong but illegal — something that clear give they no alternative than to realise that they will be catch . if the Government continue to oppose our amendment because they believe the power already exist to tackle such crime , I would be grateful if the Minister set out , at the very least , how the Government will ensure that that legislation be use to the full , particularly with regard to the DWP , give that Government amendment 75 and 76 refer to the PFSA specifically . we be keen to see how those power can be use fully use as the deterrent we need to tackle DWP claim . I want to know that , after today ' s debate and vote , sickfluencer will be leave in no doubt that the full weight of the law will be use against they , as they actively defraud the state . our new clause 9 be on power of arrest . we welcome measure in the Bill — first announce by the previous Government — to give DWP investigator great power to aid with their investigation , such as search and seizure , and there must be appropriate safeguard around that . this will bring benefit fraud investigation into line with tax fraud investigation in his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , which be very welcome , but we want to go far and address other shortfall in the DWP power . new clause 9 would add the power of arrest to the power give to DWP investigator and resolve the seemingly illogical current position : the Government want to give DWP investigator the power to enter and search a premise , seize , retain and dispose of material , obtain sensible material and use reasonable force , but not to arrest someone if the evidence show that it be necessary . in Committee , the Minister highlight that the police would be able to carry out the arrest function on behalf of the DWP should it ever be necessary , but we question whether that be a sustainable position and believe that our new clause would ensure we do not place an additional burden on the police . this be not without precedent and would bring the DWP into line with the approach take to serious and organised crime across Government , such as at HMRC and the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority . our new clause 10 be on liability order , because we be concerned about the seizure of asset . we want to ensure that the DWP do everything it can to recover fund fraudulently claim , even when that money be no long sit in a bank account . it can not be right that someone can use that money to buy expensive car , flat - screen tv or other luxury asset , which the state can not then recover from they . our new clause 10 would give the Secretary of State power to apply to the court to seize asset where someone have be find guilty of fraud and the fund have not be recover in order to repay the state . in a similar vein to our sickfluencer new clause , we believe these addition be need to send the strong message to those who be knowingly defraud the system that they will be catch and will have to pay . new clause 10 do not just give power to seize asset to the Secretary of State ; it say that she must use they . the DWP have say that it can already do this , but we know through write parliamentary question that those power have not be use in the last five year , albeit the DWP could make use of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 . we believe there must be an explicit expectation that asset will be seize , and we need new clause 10 to ensure this be achieve . it be great to hear that the hon . member ' s party be commit to take tough action against benefit fraud after 14 year of fail in office . do she also welcome long sentence for fraud in other area of Government such as covid corruption , include for those Tory donor who commit the crime ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , but that be not what we be debate ; it be certainly not part of my speech . our new clause 11 , 12 and 20 be on the impact on bank . we have concern about the lack of detail in the Bill when it come to the eligibility verification mechanism and the requirement that will be put on bank and other financial institution . we do not have the statutory code of conduct . we do not know what it will cost bank . we do not know the result of any pilot scheme , and we do not know whether the amount recover will be more than what it cost to administer . Madam Deputy Speaker , have you be in our Committee , you would know that the code of conduct be probably the thing most frequently comment on , and the Ministers do a huge amount to reassure we that it be forthcoming — and cheesecake ! and cheesecake as well — I do not want to say it from the Front Bench , but I have now . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will have to look back at Hansard , but I will never look at a cheesecake in the same way . the code of conduct be regularly raise in Committee , and we get assurance continually from the Ministers , but we still lack that detail . we have therefore table a number of amendment to get clarity , include to require the Government to publish their statutory code of conduct , information on the testing complete to date and an impact assessment on the cost implication of the Bill for bank , as well as an amendment to allow bank to challenge the expansion of these power if the cost that would be incur exceed a pre - agree amount . we know that bank and financial institution want to help tackle fraud , but measure must be proportionate and not unduly burdensome , or they risk divert resource from tackle other type of financial crime to meet these requirement . we can not simply assume that the bank and financial institution will do what be right ; we need to give they an incentive to do it , too . our amendment 16 , 17 , 18 and 19 refer to the need for a first - tier tribunal . the Bill take significant power for the Secretary of State , give they the power to review decision that they , the Cabinet Office or the Public Sector Fraud Authority make . amendment 16 to 19 change the appeal body from the Minister for the Cabinet Office to the first tier tribunal , ensure that there be not just independent oversight but an effective independent channel of appeal against information notice that do not just lead back to the organisation that issue the notice . new clause 6 be on whistleblowe . if we be serious about cut fraud and error , we need to have confidence in our whistleblowing procedure for civil service staff . I experience at first hand at the very beginning of my career what it be like to see public sector fraud be commit , and to feel the pressure of want to act , while not know what would happen to I or my career if I do the right thing ; that be perhaps one of the big regret of my life . in December 2023 , the National Audit Office publish a report investigate whistleblowing in the civil service and set out what further improvement be require . the election come before the Conservatives be able to act , but we hope the new Government will take forward new clause 6 to review the whistleblowing process for public sector fraud . elsewhere in Government , new protection have be propose for NHS whistleblower , but that should not be the end of the Government ' s ambition . they must have their own house in order when they come after fraud and error on the part of the general public , and I would at least like to hear a commitment to address the National Audit Office report . I turn to new clause 14 . throughout all this , we must not forget to consider the impact of fraud , error and recovery on vulnerable people . in the absence of detail be provide to bank about how their eligibility verification mechanism would work , we have concern about the potential risk of debanke for vulnerable customer and those in receipt of benefit . new clause 14 would require the Secretary of State to consider the impact of the Bill on vulnerable customer ' access to banking , and would ensure that their access be protect . I note our support for the principle behind several of the amendment table by the Liberal Democrats spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , include those that consider the impact on financial exclusion and those at risk of domestic abuse . overall , while the Bill come with the right intention of tackle fraud and error — indeed , eye - watering sum have be mention today — we have significant concern , which our amendment seek to address , and we hope that the Government will support they . however , even if this Bill pass , it will not on its own be enough to bring fraud and error to zero , and the Government must set out what further action will be take on enforcement , the use of artificial intelligence and technology , and social medium . they must keep push , and must make it clear to fraudster that they will not succeed , while protect vulnerable people from error . if they become complacent and fail to address these issue , I fear that the Bill will not deliver the result that we — and not least the hard - work taxpayer whose money be be steal — all need . rise — before I call the next speaker , may I make it clear that I will come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson immediately afterwards ? I welcome the return of this Bill to the House . I be happy to speak on it on Second Reading , when I welcome the Government ' s crackdown on fraud , because every pound lose to fraudulent claim be a pound that could be spend on the vital public service on which my constituent in Clwyd North rely . it be extremely good to see the recognition of the issue , and the action take in response to the £ 7 . 1 million of fraud and error payment in 2022 - 23 in Wales alone — that figure be up by £ 600 , 000 on the previous year . the fine - tuning of this Bill be important , and that fine - tuning be do through the Government amendment , which speak to the correct application under devolution settlement , policy intent , the application and limitation of part 3 , and the consequential amendment propose to parent act . I be glad to be a member of the Public Bill Committee that consider the Bill in more detail , and I throw my weight behind the comment make about how the Bill Committee progress , and how helpful that be to Committee member . the explanation and expansion by the Ministers serve we well and have bring we to where we be today . I speak on Second read about the distinction between intentional fraud and accidental individual error , and I be pleased that Government amendment speak to reservation relate to that , and to proportionality . crucial safeguard will be strengthen to ensure that no one be push into undue financial hardship because of debt recovery . those safeguard include strict affordability check on recovery payment , and check on vulnerability . I take the hon . Lady ' s point about the need to strengthen safeguard , but pass the Bill would mean that we would be extend the power of the Department for Work and Pensions before we have the opportunity to look at the independent review of the carer ' s allowance overpayment scandal and see what reform of the Department be necessary . do she share that concern ? the Bill will protect vulnerability where we see they and it be very much a Bill of last resort . it be aim at people who be not engage with the DWP on fraud and error case . now that carer be aware of the problem that have occur in the system , we hope that they engage , so I do not believe that the Bill will impact they in the way that the hon . Gentleman suggest . indeed , the Bill will protect claimant by enable early dialogue , which will stop error soon and prevent debt building up through genuine mistake ; I initially have a reservation on that point . it be clear than ever that the measure be power of last resort for those who have refuse to engage and be able to pay — it be important to emphasise that point . the measure put DWP power in line with those that already exist for his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and the Child Maintenance Service , and put the importance of the public money spend by those body on an equal footing . the behaviour change that be expect to come as a wide benefit of the Bill be welcome . the Bill encourage debtor to negotiate a repayment plan ahead of use the measure of last resort . importantly , as have be say , it deter organise fraudster and those look to become involved in fraud by ensure that it be not frame as a victimless crime . it be anything but , because it rob we all of vital money for public service . we be not willing to shrug our shoulder at that , as the Conservative party do at the rise tide of fraud during the covid pandemic and beyond . we must all reinforce the narrative that benefit fraud be not a victimless crime , and our tackle it through the Bill be long overdue . throughout the passage of the Bill — in Committee and now on Report — I have be reassure that those who have genuine difficulty navigate the social security system have nothing to fear from the Bill . indeed , it will raise awareness of the importance of early dialogue . however , I still have concern about the complexity of the system and how it be administer , as I voice at Second Reading , but that be for another day . as a member of the Work and Pensions Committee , I will continue to focus on that , as well as have regular dialogue on the subject with my constituent . to conclude , I welcome the Bill and the fine tuning that have come about through Government amendment pass in Committee . I be pleased to serve on my first Public Bill Committee , and thank the Chairs , Ministers and all involve for its smooth running . I be happy to support the Government amendment put to the House today . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . I start by assure the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) that my office have talk I out of mention the waitrose cheesecake that be a hot topic throughout Committee . on a more serious note , I would like to explore the challenge in the Bill . as we have hear , fraud can only be a bad thing , as it rob the public purse , but we need to ensure that our approach be proportionate , and that be where the rub be for we , as Liberal Democrats . first , I want to focus on the covid crisis . we all live through that , and some of we be in hot seat . I be leader of Torbay council at the time , so it feel as if I be in the eye of the storm for some of those challenge . I be afraid to say that for many of we in this Chamber , it feel as if the Conservatives be asleep at the wheel , give the level of fraud that we see take place during the pandemic . the fact that £ 10 billion - worth of fraud occur around personal protective equipment be shocking . some £ 16 billion of fraud occur around support for business . while it be extremely important that we support business appropriately , the safeguard be extremely limited . one businessman in Torbay say to I that it be as if the Chancellor of the Exchequer have get handful of £ 50 note , fill carrier bag across the town centre , and say to the criminal element , " come and help yourselves . " the reality be that the money could and should have be put to good use . in my constituency , Torbay hospital be cry out for investment . we have a sewage scandal , and the Environment Agency could be support in tackle that issue . we also have the cost of living crisis ; we could support people in ensure warm home . all that money could help with those thing . a colleague and good friend have already allude to the carer ' s allowance crisis , and the real challenge that it pose . More than 136 , 000 people — the population of the Torbay unitary authority area — be affect by it . there be some £ 250 million of cost on those people . we Liberal Democrats fear that the power in the Bill could make thing even tough for those who have challenge to do with the carer ' s allowance . member do not have to take it from I that the benefit system be break ; the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Prime Minister have say that it be . if there be such agreement in Government that the benefit system be break , why be we add to this edifice ? it be build on a foundation of sand , yet we be look to pile more responsibility on to it , without look for the true , positive culture change in the DWP that we need . colleague have allude to the area of debate around the Bill . I will touch on a few major concern that we Liberal Democrats have . the opportunity that the Bill present for orwellian level of mass surveillance of those who get mean - test benefit cause I grave concern . the hon . Gentleman have get to a point on which I wholeheartedly agree with he . something like 9 . 8 million people will fall directly under the reach of this Bill ; if we include their carer , landlord and a variety of other people , it be more than 10 million people . I would think that the number of fraudster in that number be very small , but not vanishingly small , so we will put probably more than 9 million people under unnecessary surveillance . he be right to call that Orwellian . I concur strongly with the right hon . Gentleman . also of core concern to we be the lowering of the bar for be able to take money out of people ' s bank account , and the opportunity to withdraw drive licence from offender . however , as colleague have say , the good practice document be miss . that be allude to on a number of occasion . it be difficult to understand the true nature of this Bill if we do not know what that guidance will look like . we also have real challenge around Henry VIII power . element of the Bill should be write into it , but be not , so there be real issue there . we welcome the independent reviewer of the Bill , but the Secretary of State will be able to appoint their own independent reviewer ; we do not welcome the Secretary of State effectively mark their own homework by make the appointment themselves . big Brother Watch , Age UK and a multitude of other charity have highlight concern about the Bill , such as the breakdown in trust that it could cause and the risk of amplify the challenge face by people with disability . it could also impact on some of the most vulnerable people in our society , such as those with learn disability . that cause we great concern ; liberal Democrats would like to see a real culture change . in our manifesto , we talk about co - design , which involve work with people who be benefit claimant and people with disability to make sure that the system be a well fit and more fit for purpose . as far as we be concerned , take a more relational approach , rather than an adversarial one , be the way forward . the carer investigation be ongoing . it be not set to report until later this summer , yet the Government be rush ahead with the proposal in the Bill . I suggest to colleague that they do not back these proposal until we hear that investigation ' s finding and see what lesson can be learn . I rise to speak in support of amendment 10 , 11 and 12 , which stand in my name . I would like to start , though , by place on record my thank to the Minister for Transformation , my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , include for his willingness to engage in a discussion on the term of this Bill . it have be extremely helpful , so I want to place that on record . I also make it clear that my amendment do not in any way seek to undo or frustrate the Government ' s legitimate aim of recover public money from fraudster and criminal . we absolutely need to do that to ensure that criminal behaviour do not undermine the benefit , legitimacy or standing of our welfare system . the Bill rightly seek to tackle organise crime and online fraud , but worryingly it also usher in dangerous new power compelling bank to trawl through financial information . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , and I support his amendment . the fact be that million of innocent people whose behaviour have attract no suspicion at all will be subject to intrusion into their bank account . be it not odd that there be also access to bank account for the £ 40 billion of tax unpaid by tax avoider , but that power be rarely use ? in the last year for which I have see figure , 300 , 000 people be suspect of tax avoidance , but only 1 , 000 have their bank investigate . be it not the case that this legislation appear to treat wealthy tax avoider differently from the poor ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . it be the very poor in our society who will be most affect by this legislation . bank will be able to trawl through financial information even when there be no suspicion of wrongdoing — that be the key point in this debate . the very poor , include disabled people on PIP , old people on pension credit , carer and those on universal credit , will effectively have few right to privacy than everyone else . I be also deeply concerned about the slippery slope of compelling bank to act as an arm of the state . I be extremely grateful to the hon . member for table his amendment . we have the fine legal system in the world , and one of its principle be the presumption of innocence . as draft , the Bill undermine that fundamental principle , which will raise stress and anxiety and undermine vulnerable people in our society . do the hon . Member agree that that be the current position with the Bill ? yes , and I be go to address that point shortly . it be not the purpose of bank to act as an arm of the state , and compel they to do so set a very dangerous precedent that we in this House need to be aware of . we also know that organise crime group , which be responsible for more than £ 7 billion of large - scale fraud , will evade detection by spread fund across multiple account , beyond the reach of the algorithmic scanning that will be use to flag overpayment . it will be welfare recipient who be catch up in the net of bank surveillance , regardless of whether they be suspect of fraudulent activity . I congratulate my hon . friend on his eminently reasonable and common - sense approach to this debate and on amendment 11 . do it seem to he , as it seem to I , that this legislation take place in a wide context ? along with the propose tightening of eligibility for personal independence payment , it move we towards a hostile environment for benefit claimant , particularly disabled benefit claimant . we will end up treat they as suspect automatically . do he agree that it be right for we to oppose this measure when the Conservatives want to do it ? I table an early - day motion , sign by nearly 50 mp , to that effect . we have to oppose this measure now . the good way to resolve it be by the Government accept his eminently reasonable — order . that be a very long intervention . perhaps we would be well off go back to Neil Duncan - Jordan . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I will cover the connection between this piece of legislation and the Green Paper shortly . will the outcome for the individual disabled people my hon . friend be concern about — the vast majority of whom commit no fraud — be any different if these measure be implement ? they will not be affect , because they be not commit any crime . as I have try to explain , the Bill introduce fundamental change to the nature of our welfare system and its use . I be a signatory to amendment 11 . in answer to the point that have just be make to the hon . Gentleman , if the bank use algorithm , they will have an error rate of at least 1 % . that mean 10 , 000 or more innocent people will be drag through the system by this proposal . the right hon . member bring I to my next point , which be the risk of a Horizon - style scandal on a massive scale , give the sheer volume of account that will be scan . that be glaringly obvious . these new power also strip those who receive state support of that fundamental principle of british law , the presumption of innocence , as the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) say early . amendment 11 would ensure that the Government can tackle fraudster , but would limit the use of an eligibility verification notice to case where a welfare recipient be suspect of wrongdoing and not merely of error . that proportionate and necessary safeguard would prevent the corruption of our welfare system , which will turn it from a safety net — mean to offer dignity and support to those in need — into a punitive system , where accessing help come at the cost of someone ' s privacy and civil liberty . the Bill grant the Department draconian power to apply to a court to have people strip of their drive licence if they have an outstanding debt , whether for overpayment , fraud or error . amendment 10 and 12 would remove that power from the Bill . there be fair and more effective way to enforce the law . analysis of the Bill have show that where assessment deem that a financial deduction would cause hardship , the debtor can face lose their licence . that be not justice in my view , but a penalty for be poor . I have hear the claim that this measure will be a last resort when the debtor have fail to engage over a period , but that overlook the fact that non - engagement can be a symptom of hardship rather than wrongdoing . many welfare recipient , include those with mental health condition and caring responsibility , find it difficult to navigate the complex bureaucracy of our social security system , and may be unfairly deem not to have engage with the DWP . it be important and necessary to have well legislation to look after people . I doubt that anyone in the Chamber have not be confront by a constituent who have make an inadvertent mistake . give the complexity of the paperwork and the ream of question , it be beyond the ability of most people to respond . do the hon . Gentleman share my concern , and that of many other , that if the system continue to be so complicated , it will inadvertently drive people into a position for which they be not responsible ? I agree . I think that the complexity of our system lend itself to error on the part of individual who find it extremely difficult to navigate . in Committee , several witness explain that people avoid repayment for a variety of reason , include not know where to get help , simply be overwhelm by the whole process , or face multiple debt . I hope that the Minister will provide further reassurance on that specific point relate to amendment 10 and 12 . all these challenge will only be make bad if the Government proceed with the plan cut in disability benefit outline in the recent Green Paper , which will affect more than 3 million family . the last Government strip our welfare state to the bone during 14 year of deep cut — disabled people be already far more likely to be in destitution and to rely on food bank — but spy on million of people or pile cut on to a fail system will not repair our welfare model . the Government must pause for thought , meet representative of disability organisation , and build a fair system with their consent and confidence . our welfare state need to provide support for those who need it , and the change that we promise as a Government must lead to a more compassionate and caring society — one that enable rather than penalise . these be the value that make we different from the last government , and we should not forget that . rise — order . it would be helpful if member try to confine their speech to five minute or so , but I do not propose to introduce a formal time limit yet . I wish to speak in support of new clause 11 , entitle " Publication of result of pilot scheme " . make no mistake : this Bill allow for a massive expansion of state power . it will permit mass financial surveillance of the public . it be a massive overreach by the state , so of course it require close scrutiny . it require the publication of those result , and then they must be analyse . let I put this in context . before the covid year , fraud and error across the tax and benefit system be at an all - time low . then , in 2020 , after a state - impose lockdown — another massive state intervention — unprecedented financial support be set up for million of people , in a rush of panic , with the full support of member on both side of the House . I exclude myself from that , but very few member oppose the arrangement , and it open up all sort of new vulnerability in the system . this support be set up only because of a blanket stay - at - home mandate from the state . it be the state that open up those fraud vulnerability , and it be the state that see , as a result of those imposition , many million more people claim universal credit . let I give the House the figure . in March 2020 , 3 million people be receive universal credit . by November that year 5 . 8 million be receive it , and in January 2025 the number be 7 . 5 million . just as the heavy - handed state intervention of lockdown leave the public pay a very high price , I be concerned that the Bill , another heavy - handed state intervention , will also leave the public pay a very high price . as Big Brother Watch state , the Bill will introduce " an unprecedented system of mass financial surveillance ; create a second - tier justice system for people on the poverty line ; undermine the presumption of innocence ; result in serious mistake risk the freedom and fund of our country ' s elderly , disabled and poor ; and turn Britain ' s once - fair welfare system into a digital surveillance system . " I have say it before and I will say it again , lockdown be an experiment inflict on the british people without their consent and that experiment fail . the Bill will be another such experiment on the british public . we should not be surprised that we see such an increase in the amount of money lose to fraud in the system . the truth be that when there be a knee - jerk reaction to a moment of crisis , there will be serious repercussion . when the state take extra power and the power of the state go unchecked , many inequity flow . the Bill be another example of that . there seem to be an unwillingness to talk about it . there be a collective denial about the reality of what lockdown do to our country and the dire consequence we be all suffer . we need to admit our mistake and learn from they . that be the only way we will not repeat such mistake of mass state intervention again . that state intervention , a one - size - fit - all approach , exacerbate by haste and rapid deployment , lack the detail of planning . it lack try and test vehicle of delivery , and it lack safeguard . the massive intervention propose by the Bill at the very least need further testing and piloting , and , most importantly , the publication of the result and an analysis of they . I be sorry to have to say it , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I have no faith that the Government have do the homework require to implement the scheme , and not without good reason . this be a Government who do not have a good track record on do impact assessment or on do their homework before major legislation be introduce , such as : the removal of the winter fuel payment from pensioner and the fallout from that ; the impact of vat on school ; the devastation to the farming community and to food security cause by the taxis on farm ; and the impact on business and employment of the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution . we be see the failure of not do test , impact assessment and thoroughly work out how thing will work . much more detailed work need to go into a change of this enormity . this extraordinary power be ineffective and entirely disproportionate to the revenue the Government expect to raise via its use . the Government ' s own estimate be that it will get back less than 1 . 4 % of the estimate annual loss to fraud and error . talk about a hammer to crack a nut . this be power for power ' s sake , an absolutely unnecessary power grab from the people . today see the threat unchecked , untested and come forward . loom on the horizon be other form of state intervention and global intervention , with the World Health Organisation ' s new international health regulation . now be the time for member to have a conversation about massive state intervention and why we do not want they . in conclusion , it be ironic , be it not , that a massive state overreach and the draconian legislation use for lockdown lead to high level of fraud , error and million more people on benefit ? it will , supposedly , now be solve and correct by yet another massive state overreach and draconian legislation . it be wrong then and it be wrong now . sometimes in these debate , we be try to influence those on the Front Bench ; to be honest , on this legislation , I have give up on that . I just want to get on the record , for my constituent , why I be concerned about this piece of legislation and why I support amendment 11 . we have all preface our speech by say that we all want to tackle fraud . to follow on from the speech by the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , in that process during covid , I think I be the first MP to raise the issue of the massive fraud that be go on with bank loan . when I write to the then Chancellor and to various Ministers , I receive response that have almost be dictate by the bank , say that all the security measure have be put in place and that it be be administer effectively ; we then discover that it be , I think , £ 13 billion , although we recover an element of that , so I be very wary about ensure that public expenditure avoid the level of fraud that we see during that time . I be concern about this Bill , which take huge step constitutionally , legally and on civil liberty . other have make similar point . our tradition be that someone be innocent until prove guilty — that have be the legal principle from Magna Carta onwards . the investigation power be usually trigger by some element of suspicion . this legislation ride roughshod over that long 1 , 000 - year tradition . on privacy , whatever assurance we be give about the Bill ' s compliance with human right legislation — I have my doubt — it introduce , for the first time that I have see in this country on an issue like this , mass surveillance . the right hon . Gentleman go right to the point I try to make with the Minister . there be 25 NGOs support amendment 11 . it be almost certain that if we go down this route , it will end up in court . I think the Government will lose on article 8 , on the question of individual privacy . follow the right hon . Gentleman ' s track record on issue like this — he have be prove right on virtually every occasion — I agree . in addition to the mass surveillance , the extent of the information that can be seek and interpret from the Bill be extremely wide - range and open to challenge . what have annoy I be that we be now introduce legislation in advance of what we be promise by way of code of conduct and operation . we have no idea how this will work out in practice without those code . member may recall that the code set out detail on how the system would operate at every level , with the information seek , investigatory power and so on . we do not have those , but we be be tell not to worry , because the other place will receive they — well , that be not our responsibility as mps . our responsibility be to deal with the matter here . we also do not know how the " independent person " , as they be describe in the legislation , be to be appoint or how they be go to operate . the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) raise the question of how their report and recommendation will then be implement . there be also the question of whom they will be accountable to and whether there be any accountability for those independent person to this House . time and again , when we have introduce legislation like this in the past that have short - circuit the traditional protective constitutional and legal mechanism , it have lead to debacle and miscarriage . I warn Ministers that that be exactly what we be face here . reference have be make to issue with regard to the use of computer , model and algorithm . we seem to have learn nothing from where we have make those error . as I also raise on Second Reading , what be happen here be discriminatory . we be choose a class of people — largely work - class people — who be claim benefit , and we be target they . if there be a class of people we should be target who have a record of fraud and of claim thing that they should not , well , here we be . as the expense scandal demonstrate , if there be one group of people we should be examine more closely , it be member of Parliament . I want to talk very briefly about the impact of these measure from a constituency point of view . as an MP for 28 year and a councillor for over 12 year — 40 year in total — I have meet lot of people who do not claim benefit to which they be entitle . they be often old people , but there be other as well . why do they not claim ? in my experience , it be because of the stigma attach to claim benefit . with this Bill , we be add a bit more stigma , which will act as a disincentive to those who genuinely qualify for benefit and should be come forward . it be that terror of make an error , that fear of risk be penalise for claim a benefit they may not be entitle to — or of be pay too much . there be a real fear among my constituent about such miscarriage . Most of the constituent who come to our constituency surgery have try everything else by the time they get to we . they be the one with the most chaotic life . and they be the one who get sanction time and again , not because of any deliberate act , but often because they have mental health issue , or because something in their life , prevent they from attend that interview , or from apply for enough job in time . what will happen to they ? they will be drag into this system again . at the moment , they come to we — this be largely the case in my constituency — because most of the advice agency have be close down thank to the cut that have take place , and they come to we in desperation . this Bill will make people even more desperate . it will deter people who qualify for benefit from claim , and it will cause real hardship and impose severe penalty on those who least deserve it . that be why I think this be a poor piece of legislation , and it will not be long before we be back here again to amend it , to restore some element of civil liberty and protection for the poor in our society . I shall impose , with immediate effect , a four - minute time limit . when it come to public money , everyone accept the importance of prevent fraud ; there be no dispute about that . the mere think that our benefit system could be exploit loosen the cement hold our welfare system together . however , if we look back in history , there have be a track record of fraud recovery measure not deliver what be hope . this measure will also probably never save the £ 1 . 5 billion that be expect of it , so I ask : will the allege reward of this legislation ever match the scale of the imposition on our civil liberty , and be we really go after the right target ? we all want to catch deliberate and professional fraudster , but they be precisely the people who be astute enough to change tactic , set up separate bank account , and avoid suspicion . instead , it will be the innocent and the accidental claimant who fall into the trap . the implicit assumption be that we should trust in the DWP as a completely error - free organisation across the entirety of its massive operation . but the DWP do make mistake . it make mistake all the time . and even when it know that it have make a mistake , and it have be tell so , it be very capable of make the same mistake all over again . in my constituency of Horsham , Anthony and his husband be accuse of provide misinformation to the DWP and be overpay £ 10 , 000 as a result . Anthony protest without success . after a long fight the case go to appeal . the tribunal waste no time decide in his favour — it be an open and shut case . but then , early this year , Anthony and his husband be migrate over to universal credit . after confirm all detail be correct , the DWP overpay they again , and then seek to claw the money back over the following month . the DWP ' s mistake , but Anthony pay the penalty . the DWP have its rule , but real life do not run in straight line . real life be messy . how can we possibly rely on the DWP to mark its own homework when we know that there be just four fraud adviser per regional office to handle case flag by frontline staff ? yes , there be some check and balance within this legislation , but what be really need be a profound cultural change within the DWP , and that be much hard to achieve . the common experience of people who have to deal with the DWP on a daily basis be that they feel that it be always look to catch they out . year and year of inflammatory rhetoric under a succession of conservative government have convince people to regard the DWP as their enemy , not their friend . if anything , the Bill dig that hole a little deep . what concern I most about the Bill be its extreme overconfidence . it assume that government agency always get thing right and that individual citizen be to be automatically treat as object of suspicion . in Committee , the Government be resistant to any amendment except their own , so I very much hope that they will reconsider today and accept the liberal Democrat amendment . I rise to speak against amendment 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 8 and 9 , and new clause 12 and 15 . fraud in the benefit system affect we all . it cost we as a country almost £ 1 million an hour . it take money from the most vulnerable in society and undermine the legitimacy of and public support for our social security system . however , many of the amendment propose simply do not recognise the vital need for this legislation . some , such as amendment 2 and 9 , would hamstring the Bill by prevent we gather key information . other , such as amendment 8 , 5 and 6 , would limit the effectiveness of the Bill and make its power more difficult to use . other , such as amendment 4 and new clause 12 and 15 , would seek to delay its effect . these amendment , however differently propose , all suffer from the same pathology : they fail to take fraud seriously . we have hear a number of speech today from opponent of the Bill , but we be yet to hear from they any serious practical suggestion about how we might tackle fraud . these opponent say that they be concerned to protect the vulnerable , but I say gently that they can offer no proposal on how to prevent the fraud that be steal from the needy in our society . many member be come from a genuine place of concern about how to strike the right balance between protect the public purse on the one hand and the privacy and right of claimant on the other . I think the Bill get the balance right . the power it provide be proportionate . will the hon . member give way ? I have limit time , so I will make progress . the power the Bill provide be proportionate , measure and ring with safeguard . it be a mark of this that , as we hear from the Secretary of State on Second Reading , the Information Commissioner have state that the Bill as currently draft have address their previously state concern . as well as be proportionate , the power be necessary to fight the ever - more sophisticated fraud that we be face . over the past decade , financial institution have extensively overhaul their use of technology and datum and their approach to the evolving fraud threat , yet the Government have not . it be illuminate , but perhaps not surprising , that while social security fraud have rise dramatically post covid , fraud volume and loss in the financial service sector , include credit card fraud , have fall accord to UK Finance . the public sector have pay a steep price for not modernise its anti - fraud approach and fail to adopt industry good practice . it be a gap that this Bill seek to address . Most of all , the measure in the Bill be crucial for protect the vulnerable and safeguard the legitimacy of the system itself . our social security system rest on public consent and a belief that money be fairly spend . fraud and error chip away at this social contract , and it take money from those who need it most . the public in Hendon and across the country expect we to take action . there be nothing progressive whatsoever about permit fraud . the only people who benefit be the criminal who exploit our system and those who wish to undermine its role as a cornerstone of a civilised and fair society . for the sake of the most vulnerable , the taxpayer , fairness and the system itself , I hope the House will join I in support the Bill and vote down those amendment . there continue to be many problem with the Bill , but I recognise that the Minister and his team have have extensive conversation with the Scottish Government and make a number of amendment as a result . I welcome the communication between the two government and urge the Minister to ensure that the DWP team have extensive conversation in advance of the come welfare Bill so that it will not need so many Government amendment on Report for how it interact with scottish legislation and scottish system . I turn to new clause 1 on carer ' s allowance . it would be completely fair to wait until a review have be do — there need to be a significant look into that — as claw back money from people without see the result of that review would be incredibly problematic . I be therefore happy to support the new clause . on sickfluencer , I be concerned that although the shadow Minister have try to draft new clause 21 to exclude people give advice , it might unintentionally catch some of those people . on that basis , I be not keen to support it as I would be worried about people who offer genuine advice be catch up in that . however , I understand that she attempt to draft it carefully to try to avoid that . I would be more than happy to support amendment 11 — the SNP will support it — on the suspicion of wrongdoing . I be think in particular about the speech make by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) . I be not go to mention the propensity of former mp to claim thing fraudulently , but in look at who actually cost the taxpayer significant amount of money , if the Government be to say , " we know that people who hold million of pound in offshore trust fund often dodge tax , so we be go to survey all their bank account , " I imagine that there would be some sort of uprising , particularly from some wealthy people we be aware of . but because the Government be say , " it ' s cool ; it ' s just poor people who will be impact , " we be all expect to assume that this surveillance be fine . it be not fine ; it be an absolute imposition on people ' s life . as many have say , it be treat everybody as though they be fraudster . let we look at the amount of money set to be save . the Government will save less money annually than the DWP make in overpayment . rather than impose on so many people ' s civil liberty , surely crack down on DWP official error overpayment , which would save more money , would be a well place to begin . it be absolutely daft . I completely agree with new clause 7 , table by my colleague the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , particularly in relation to the reasonable expectation that people could understand that they have be overpay . a constituent contact I recently because they have a letter tell they that they be to be migrate to universal credit . they be terrified that they will be deport because the word " migrate " be use in that letter . they do not understand the language use by the DWP . give that universal credit be so complicated to calculate , so many people could not reasonably have be expect to understand that they be be overpay . the DWP should take that into account before look at mass surveillance . the Bill address the serious issue of fraud and error in our public service . I welcome the Government ' s continuation of the work of the previous Government to protect taxpayer ' money and uphold the integrity of our welfare system . the amendment propose by the official Opposition would not undermine the Bill ; they would enhance it . our amendment would preserve the fundamental principle of fairness and proportionality while strengthen the tool at our disposal to tackle wrongdoing . in that spirit , I rise to speak in support of new clause 8 and 21 . new clause 8 be a measured and necessary proposal that would simply bring the Department for Work and Pensions in line with other Government body , such as HMRC and the Child Maintenance Service , which already have the power to issue arrest warrant for case of serious fraud against the state . why should it lack those enforcement capability when the crime that it deal with be just as serious ? the taxpayer enter into a social contract with the state — a contract base on trust , responsibility and accountability . my constituent pay their taxis and quite rightly expect that those who cheat , lie or exploit the system will face the consequence . we in this House be the guardian of that social contract . if the public believe that we be turn a blind eye to fraud or fail to act decisively , that trust begin to erode and the social contract will be put at risk . illegal action must have legal consequence . in support new clause 8 , the Government could send a clear and unequivocal message : fraud and deceit have no place in our society . turn to new clause 21 , it have recently be highlight that individual be use social medium to promote way of defraud the system , include through the Motability scheme . that be deeply troubling . although Ministers have previously respond positively to my question on that , the current version of the Bill do not go far enough . unless the government support our amendment , they will fail to take the concrete step need to address that evolve form of deceit . this House have an opportunity today to work across party line to far strengthen the Bill and reaffirm our commitment to protect the social contract between the Government and those govern . let we act with unity and resolve to reduce fraud , restore public trust and ensure that our system work for those who truly need they and not for those who seek to abuse they . under the previous Conservative Government , fraudster get away with claim billion of pound of covid support fund , as an eyewatering £ 39 . 8 billion go uncollected due to tax evasion and other criminal activity . while vulnerable member of our society have see their benefit cut and our public service be in need of investment , it be not right that public spending have be misplace into the pocket of fraudster . I be therefore grateful for many of the measure in the Bill that will work to reduce instance of fraud . however , I have concern about some of the broad measure regard the power the legislation would give the Department for Work and Pensions and the potentially intrusive impact that could have on the civil liberty of citizen . I speak in support of new clause 23 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , which would require a report to Parliament within six month on the cause and cost of public sector fraud during the covid - 19 pandemic . the report would include an account of any fraudulent payment and a review of procurement practice during covid , include contracting for supplier and the role of political appointment and personal connection in procurement decision , as well as an assessment of the adequacy of Government oversight to prevent fraud against public authority . much of that work have already be undertake by the Public Accounts Committee — I be a member , as I be in the previous Parliament — and it would be worthwhile for the Minister to take a look at some of our reporting on those topic . if failing be find , the new clause would require an outline of corrective action , include a statement to this House to acknowledge the finding and to set out action plan to ensure that any failing be not repeat . with public trust in politic at alarmingly low level , we must take all possible step to ensure integrity and the high possible standard in governance . the cronyism , rule breaking and sleaze scandal of the last Conservative Government do huge damage to public trust in politic and politician in this country . the new clause would lead to an increase of accountability and I urge the Minister to accept it . even though I be glad to see the Government introduce measure that would crack down on instance of fraud , I have grave concern about some of the broad measure in this legislation that would lead to an unacceptable increase in intrusion on individual privacy . that be why I speak in favour of amendment 2 , which would revoke clause 74 and remove the requirement for bank to look into relevant claimant ' bank account . some measure in the Bill raise significant concern regard the privacy of individual , and I have hear from constituent who be alarmed at some of the power that could be introduce with this legislation . I believe that fraud must be root out and that more should be do to prevent fraud from happen in the first place . however , clause 74 be an unnecessary and invasive step that I urge the Government to refrain from take . I have hear from people who be concerned about the power grant in the Bill because it enable the Government to have direct access to individual ' bank account and even enable the DWP to withdraw fund or revoke driving licence . that concern be particularly serious when it come to vulnerable group , such as the elderly , disabled people and those live in poverty , who could face devastating consequence as a result of wrongful penalty . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to crack down on fraud . there be clear failure by the previous Conservative Government during the covid pandemic , which we see highlight in the PPE procurement scandal and the bypassing of the usual procurement rule via the vip lane . it be essential that proper rule be in place to ensure that public spending be carry out in an effective , efficient and transparent way , and I be glad to support new clause 23 , which would strengthen transparency and accountability on this issue . however , grave concern about the intrusive power that this legislation could introduce have be express across the House today , particularly those that allow the Government to require bank and other financial institution to share client datum , and as such , I urge the Minister to accept amendment 2 to revoke clause 74 . there be a lot I could say , but I will mainly just commend to Members my new clause 7 , which would remove official error from the most punitive measure in the second part of the Bill . I speak against the whole suite of intrusive legislation in the second part of the Bill on Second Reading , and Green MPs still oppose it now . I be pleased to serve on the Public Bill Committee , and I will be support a number of other amendment that I also back there , alongside the hon . member from both side of the House who propose they . on Second Reading and in Committee I describe how the Bill treat already stigmatise benefit claimant as suspect , not citizen , through blanket intrusion and surveillance . it be absolutely wrong that this legislation should go through in this form . I think the first part work , but the second part be absolutely out of order . new clause 7 , table in my name , be about fair play . it would bring a test for the recovery of universal credit overpayment cause by official error into line with regulation 100 ( 2 ) of the Housing Benefit Regulations 2006 , so that they could be recover only where the claimant could have reasonably be expect to realise that there be an overpayment . let we be in no doubt , mistake by the DWP can have huge financial and psychological impact on people who be receive benefit , and the risk of harm be particularly acute with official error overpayment , which individual have no way of anticipating . I point out that new clause 7 be equivalent to an amendment propose by Labour Front Benchers during the passage of the Welfare Reform Act back in 2012 , when the Government first start to recover universal credit overpayment . turn to a few of the other important amendment before the House today , I restate my support for amendment 2 and 5 , in the name of the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) . these seek simply to remove the totally indefensible bank spy power . I express my support for amendment 10 and 12 , in the name of the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , which rightly seek to do away with the drive disqualification power , which I have previously oppose . I also put on record my support for amendment 11 , also in the name of the hon . member for Poole , which rightly limit the bank ' spy power to case with exist suspicion of wrongdoing . I be pleased that the hon . member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) have take forward amendment 8 and 9 , which I table in Committee . my Green party colleague and I will also be vote for new clause 1 , in the name of the hon . member for Torbay , on carer ' s allowance and lesson learn . it matter when we treat people who need a safety net as suspect . it matter when government invade privacy with a blanket intrusion that affect old people , disabled people and other minority in a disproportionate way . and it matter that the power propose today extend to impoverish citizen and punish they for our own Department ' s mistake . treat people with humanity and due process should be the default setting , not these intrusive new blanket law , and I hope that Parliament will ask Ministers to dial up the competence , dial down the stigma and think again . over the past few month , it have be one thing after another for the vulnerable , the sick and disabled people . the recently announce cut to welfare will affect 6 % of the population in Wales , accord to policy in Practice , punish the sick and disabled . this Bill add to that punishment by increase state financial surveillance of welfare recipient . it be full of intrusive measure , from grant access to three month of bank statement , to allow direct deduction from bank account without court order and provide police with power under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 to enter and search a property . that be not just my opinion : numerous charity and organisation from Age UK to the Child Poverty Action Group support Big Brother Watch ' s recommendation to oppose eligibility verification power under clause 74 , for example . similar power be propose by the previous Conservative Government and consider a potential breach of privacy under the Human Rights Act . labour mp at that time be among critic of those power . it be disappointing to see so few Labour mp here today , but I thank those who have once again speak up . I be glad to see amendment , include amendment 8 and 9 table by the hon . member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) and amendment 11 table by the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , that seek to address such concern , include by limit or remove power to compel bank to provide sensitive financial information . even the thought of this provision be cause real anxiety and distress , such as for my constituent Simon Mead and his family . Mr Mead ' s daughter , who receive PIP due to the long - term effect of brain cancer as a child , and his son , who suffer from psychosis and schizophrenia , be extremely worried about the Government access their private financial decision . it be already affect their day - to - day life and decision . when I write to the Government outline Mr Mead ' s concern before the Bill be publish , I be tell that the Bill be " not design to cause distress or to undertake covert surveillance of disabled people , or any benefit claimant " . well , that be obviously not the case , be it ? combine with restrict winter fuel payment , the refusal to abolish the two - child cap and the sweeping welfare cut , many vulnerable and disabled people genuinely feel that they be be disproportionately target . this be a reality that the Labour Government must accept and address . the Bill far stigmatise people who we be suppose to protect — those who be entitle to state support — who be already suffer follow recent UK Government decision . as Members of Parliament , it be our job to well people ' s life and ensure that everyone in our community feel support . we be here to serve and to serve all our constituent , which include the vulnerable , the elderly , the disabled and the infirm . we be not here to cause further distress and hardship . we need to ensure that constituent have access to the help and service they need . sadly , this Bill do the opposite . that be the end of the Back - Bench contribution . we come to the Front Benches and first the shadow Minister . with the leave of the House , I will make a few additional comment . this be the perfect opportunity to respond to some of the point make about conservative amendment and new clause . the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) be on a short time limit and be not able to take any intervention , but I want to speak to the point he make on include our new clause — for example , new clause 12 . he rattle off the other amendment number quickly , so I hope he will forgive I if I do not hear they all , but I believe that new clause 12 and 15 be include . his implication be that the new clause we table would delay the Bill be put into law . that would not be the case , because each of they be word for after the Act come into force . the new clause would be additional safeguard on the cost implication for bank , annual reporting and the publication of an antifraud and error technology strategy that would make the Bill even well , rather than essentially be wreck amendment . regardless of the other amendment include in the hon . member ' s list , our be certainly not in that vein . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) say that she be slightly unhappy about new clause 21 because those who genuinely help benefit claimant get what they be entitle to may inadvertently be catch by it . that be not our intention . we want only those who push people towards commit fraud to be catch . Citizens Advice and improve live Plymouth , for example , which help people claim what they be entitle to , would not be catch by the new clause , because they would be involve in error only if a mistake be make , rather than through fraud . I appreciate what she say , but that be not our intention . the wording of our new clause cover that . concern be raise in Committee about the extent of bank account search . in our view , other bank account use by those who commit fraud would not be check under the Bill , so we probably need to go far to ensure that fraud be properly tackle . to be more light - hearted for a moment , if I may , anybody read the report of the debate will see plenty of reference to cheesecake , and I think I should explain why . concern be raise in Committee about the fact that , under the Bill , an account ' s individual transaction could be assess and judge , so everybody would feel terrible if they buy a cheesecake from Waitrose — other shop be available — and that would be a problem in future . if anybody be wonder why we be talk about cheesecake , it relate to concern about transaction be check . at the time , the Minister kindly reassure we that the Bill would not provide for individual transaction to be check ; it would deal just with benefit payment and whether someone have capital that they should not have while claim benefit . I hope that that be helpful . with the leave of the House , I thank all hon . member for their contribution . in the time I have , I will try to respond to some of the point raise . I have listen closely to the concern set out by member from across the House , and I will of course ensure that they be take forward as the Bill progress to the other place , but today I will resist all non - Government amendment . I will make initial comment in response to several member , before turn specifically to the nature of the amendment and new clause . the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , and the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , say that the Bill build on the previous Administration ' s work to tackle fraud and error . I have to say , I think that be a fairly generous interpretation of that work , not least because , as far as I can see , the previous Government introduce absolutely no power for the Public Sector Fraud Authority to tackle fraud across the public sector , and , moreover , nothing on debt recovery . the only evidence we can find of any new power the previous Government seek to introduce be in the eligibility verification space . I accept that they seek to do that , but they do so in a rather botched fashion , which be subject to significant criticism , and with none of the safeguard and oversight in place . we have now build those into the Bill . I absolutely agree with the Opposition spokesperson that the Government can not be complacent in tackle fraud — and we will not be — but I say gently that , have allow fraud and error in the welfare system to spiral to £ 9 . 7 billion at the time of the last election , the same can not be say of the previous Government . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , speak of a broken welfare system . I do not want to be draw into a debate on that , but a broken approach to tackle benefit fraud and error be certainly part of any problem that the Department face . I want to address the point that my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) make about the eligibility verification measure in relation to his amendment 11 . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) speak of the impact this would have on the poor , give they less right to privacy than everybody else . I understand their concern , but that be not my interpretation , because we have already establish in this place the right of Government to receive information or datum from private organisation , include bank and building society , that point to financial standing . HMRC already receive datum on every interest - bear account in the country , so this be not an unprecedented power . HMRC send out 550 notice to datum holder cover 130 million account , and 100 notice to card - acquire service provider . it receive 20 million line of datum on card sale . I understand Members ’ concern , but I challenge gently the extent to which the measure be unprecedented . my hon . friend the Member for Poole and my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington allude to the risk of a Horizon - type event . I want to assure the House of a very clear difference . the Horizon scandal emerge because evidence be take from a single source . that will not be the case here . we will receive flagged information from bank of a potential breach of eligibility criterion . however , that will not be a sufficient source of evidence to prove fraud . that will trigger a look at the account , and if there be not an obvious reason why somebody be potentially in breach of eligibility criterion , a human investigation will be trigger that look at a range of source of evidence to establish the reason . only then would there be any suggestion that fraud or error have occur . there can be legitimate reason for somebody have an amount of capital above that allow by their benefit . for instance , if somebody on universal credit receive a payment of more than £ 16 , 000 , which be the maximum amount of capital allow , as a result of the Horizon scandal or the infected blood scandal , they would be exempt . I understand the concern , but I think this be distinct from the Horizon scandal . can the Minister reassure we that no action will be take to stop social security payment until the human investigation have happen ? I be happy to provide that assurance ; the hon . Member have steal my next line . I can say categorically that this be a data push only . no decision will be take as a direct result , other than a decision to look far into an account , and potentially initiate a human investigation , if need . I want to say a little more about amendment 10 and 12 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Poole , which relate to drive licence . he rightly say that welfare recipient may not be able to engage with the Department . for the record , nobody in receipt of benefit or pay through pay - as - you - earn employment will be in scope of the debt recovery power and therefore of the power to suspend driving licence . where we do seek to suspend someone ' s drive licence , it be worth remember that this be after we have make at least four attempt to contact they through our debt management team , and at least four further attempt through our debt enforcement team , and we have establish their ability to repay by look at three month ' bank statement . if , when we seek to deduct from that bank account , an individual have remove the fund that we know they have , it be only then that we would look into the possibility of suspend their drive licence . even then , because this be very much a last resort power , we would seek to agree a repayment plan with they right up until the end . the court would set repayment term if a drive licence be suspend . it be also worth say that it be always a suspend decision , subject to compliance with an affordable repayment plan set by the court . as I say , this be a power of last resort . I hope colleague be reassure to hear of the many step before we reach that point and , most importantly of all , to hear that the power do not apply to current benefit recipient or anybody pay through PAYE employment . the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) mention new clause 11 and the publication of pilot scheme result . I would like to clarify for the House that we be not propose any further pilot scheme as a result of introduce this legislation . two pilot scheme have already take place , so we know that our proposal work . we will be adopt a test - and - learn approach so that we can scale thing up . the question of whether this mechanism will yield information that be helpful to we in our inquiry be settle by the previous Government . have all the detail and all the information from the only pilot scheme that the Government be prepared to run be publish in their entirety ? information of that nature be publish prior to Second Reading and be available to Members . I turn to the amendment and new clause that attract the most attention in today ' s debate . new clause 1 , table by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay , pertain to the carer ' s allowance . I pay tribute to the million of unpaid carer across the country . this Government value carer highly , and recognise the vital and valuable contribution they make every day . like other , I see that in my constituency work , week after week , and I be in awe of all that carer do . this Government inherit a system in which busy carer , already struggle under a huge weight of responsibility , have be leave to repay large sum of overpaid carer ' s allowance , sometimes worth thousand of pound . we need to understand exactly what go wrong , so that we can set out our plan to put this right . that be why we launch an independent review of earning - relate overpayment , and we be delighted that Liz Sayce agree to lead that review , which will investigate how overpayment of carer ' s allowance have occur , what can well be do to support those who have accrue they , and how to reduce the risk of these problem occur in future . the independent review be under way and be anticipate to conclude this summer . but we be not sit back ; we be take action now . we continue to review and improve our communication with carer to make it as easy as possible for they to tell we when something have change in their life that could affect their carer ' s allowance entitlement . moreover , this Government introduce the large ever increase in the earning limit since carer ' s allowance be introduce ; the weekly carer ' s allowance earning limit increase to £ 196 from 7 April this year . it be now peg permanently to 16 hour . clearly , many carer have be affect by overpayment . Overpayment come as a shock to many who be try to work in order to bridge the gap between carer ' s allowance and their family ' s cost , and it have a significant impact on their mental health . do the Minister share my gratitude to Liz Sayce for the work that she be do to hopefully provide clarity for the many carer who be try to juggle unpaid family care and work ? I absolutely agree . Liz Sayce be do excellent work , and I look forward to see the conclusion of her review in due course . turn to new clause 1 , as I have say , the independent review that have be commission be expect to arrive at its conclusion this summer . it would be irresponsible for I to commit in advance to implement all recommendation . as the House will understand , the recommendation will need to be give careful consideration when they be provide to the Department . moreover , I do not believe that the new clause would have the effect intend . will the Minister give way ? if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , I will not , as I be short of time . new clause 1 would prevent recovery of carer ' s allowance overpayment via the new recovery power in this Bill , but the DWP would still be able to recover carer ' s allowance overpayment through deduction from benefit or through deduction from PAYE earning . this would place carer in an unequal position in regard to overpayment recovery , with recovery depend on whether they be in receipt of benefit or in PAYE employment . even if I believe that that be what the amendment intend , suspend recovery of all carer ' s allowance overpayment until the independent review have conclude would be disproport - ionate . there be safeguard and protection for those with overpayment , include appeal right , affordable repayment plan and , in exceptional circumstance , the option to waive the debt . I turn to new clause 21 , which the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for South West Devon , speak to , and I will refer to new clause 8 , which propose to introduce a new offence of fraud against a public authority . in my view , that be already cover by exist offence , make the amendment duplicative and unnecessary . fraud be already an offence under the Fraud Act 2006 , and the common law offence of conspiracy to defraud , regardless of whether the fraud be against public authority or anyone else , be already in existence . the Government amendment to clause 70 bring together the offence in section 6 and 7 of the Fraud Act 2006 of " possess , make or supply article for use in fraud " , with the offence of " assist and encouraging " that be find in section 44 to 46 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 . that allow we to tackle the issue that Committee member be concern about — influencer - style offence , in which a person provide the knowledge need to commit a fraudulent act through internet video or manual . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will not . I take an intervention from the hon . gentleman on this subject early , but I be short of time . [ interruption . ] have he stay for the whole debate , I might have be more willing to do so , but I respond to his early invention . in my view , we simply need to enforce exist law . similarly , new clause 21 seek to amend the Social Security Administration Act 1992 to introduce an offence of encourage or assist fraud . again , in my view this be unnecessary , because that be cover by the Fraud Act 2006 and the Serious Crime Act 2007 . the hon . member for South West Devon ask for assurance that we would use the power that we already have . as I say in response to intervention , I have commission work in the Department to look at how we can far use the power that we have ; in my view , historically , we have not take good advantage of they . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I be sorry , but I will not . turn to new clause 10 , we want to ensure that the Government have access to a wide , appropriate and proportionate range of debt recovery power , so that we have multiple method of recover money from those who have the mean to pay but refuse to do so . however , new clause 10 be not require , as equivalent action be already provide for through exist legislation for the DWP , and by clause 16 of this Bill for the psfa . clause 16 clarifie that the psfa be able to seek alternative civil recovery through the civil court . in addition , there be direct deduction order and deduction from earning order in the Bill , which could include liability order . I have largely cover amendment 11 . in closing , I want to make a few observation about amendment 8 and 9 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) , but speak to by other member . in my view , those amendment would reduce the effectiveness of our debt recovery power as propose in the Bill , so I can not agree to they . I recognise the importance of dialogue with customer all the way through the journey of debt recovery . as I set out in response to the concern about the revocation of drive licence raise by my hon . friend the Member for Poole , we will seek to engage with people at all stage of the journey . if we identify any vulnerability , we would cease recovery , and at all stage we would look to agree an affordable repayment plan . I hope that I have address the majority of the point raise by right hon . and hon . member , and I thank they again for their contribution . I thank the witness who give their time to the Committee , and those who provide write evidence . finally , I extend my thank to the Clerks , the House staff and civil servant who have contribute to the passage of the Bill . for too long , too little effort have be make to get a grip on public sector fraud , result in the totally unacceptable level that we see today . with this Bill , we be take the power need to act and to finally take the fight to the crook and the con artist , from criminal gang attack our welfare system to covid fraudster who steal from hard - work people in a time of national emergency . this Bill be critical . it will save we billion of pound , and it be part of a broad package in the Department to save £ 9 . 6 billion for the DWP by 2030 . I hope that all member feel able to support it today . question put and agree to . new clause 17 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 3 February ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 18 - consequential amendment to the Social Security Fraud Act 2001 " ( 1 ) the Social Security Fraud Act 2001 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) section 3 ( code of practice about use of information power ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) before subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( A1 ) the Secretary of State must issue a code of practice relate to the exercise of the power that be exercisable by an authorise officer under section 109BZB of the Administration Act . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " Secretary of State " substitute " Scottish Ministers " . ( 5 ) section 4 ( arrangement for payment in respect of information ) be amend as follow . ( 6 ) before subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( A1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that such arrangement ( if any ) be in force as the Secretary of State think appropriate for require or authorise , in such case as the Secretary of State think fit , the making of such payment as the Secretary of State consider appropriate in respect of compliance with relevant obligation by any person . ( A2 ) in subsection ( A1 ) , " relevant obligation " mean an obligation to provide information , or access to information , under section 109bzb or 109BA of the Administration Act . " ( 7 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) for " Secretary of State " substitute " Scottish Ministers " ; ( b ) for " he think " , in both place it occur , substitute " they think " ; ( c ) for " he consider " substitute " they consider " . ( 8 ) omit subsection ( 4 ) . " — ( Andrew Western . ) this new clause would replace clause 73 . it ensure that the amendment to section 3 and 4 of the Social Security Fraud Act 2001 reflect the change make by the Bill to the Secretary of State ' s power to require information under the Social Security Administration Act 1992 and continue to operate effectively in relation to the Scottish Ministers ' power to require information under the Social Security Administration Act 1992 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 19 - devolve benefit " in the Social Security Administration Act 1992 , after section 121D , insert — " 121DZA Devolved benefit ( 1 ) subject to subsection ( 3 ) , power of the Secretary of State under this part ( include power of an individual who have the Secretary of State ' s authorisation for the purpose of this part as mention in section 109a ) be not exercisable in relation to a devolved benefit . ( 2 ) a benefit be a devolved benefit if function under this Part be exercisable in relation to the benefit by the Scottish Ministers by virtue of section 53 of the Scotland Act 1998 , read with section 32 of the Scotland Act 2016 . ( 3 ) the power refer to in subsection ( 1 ) be exercisable in relation to a devolved benefit where arrangement make under section 93 ( 1 ) of the Scotland Act 1998 ( agency arrangement ) have the effect that the Secretary of State be to exercise any function of the Scottish Ministers under this Part on behalf of the Scottish Ministers in relation to the benefit . ( 4 ) see also section ( Powers of Scottish Ministers ) of the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Act 2025 . " " — ( Andrew Western . ) this new clause mean that the power of the Secretary of State under Part 6 of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 ( enforcement ) can not be exercise in relation to a devolved benefit except where the Secretary of State administer that benefit on behalf of the Scottish Ministers under agency arrangement . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 20 - Powers of Scottish Ministers " ( 1 ) nothing in this part be to be take as add or remove function of the Scottish Ministers under the Social Security Administration Act 1992 . ( 2 ) accordingly , those function continue to be the function that be exercisable under that Act by the Scottish Ministers by virtue of section 53 of the Scotland Act 1998 , read with section 32 of the Scotland Act 2016 ( include where an amendment make by this Part have the effect that a provision of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 refer to the Scottish Ministers expressly ) . " — ( Andrew Western . ) this new clause provide that the function of the Scottish Ministers under the Social Security Administration Act 1992 continue to be exercisable by virtue of section 53 of the Scotland Act 1998 , read with section 32 of the Scotland Act 2016 , despite any amendment make to that Act by Part 2 of the Bill . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 1 - Recovery of overpayment of Carer ' s Allowance " the Secretary of State may not exercise any of the power of recovery under this Act in relation to a person who have receive an overpayment of Carer ' s Allowance until such time as — ( a ) the Secretary of State have commission an independent review of the overpayment of Carer ' s allowance ; ( b ) the review have conclude its inquiry and submit a report contain recommendation to the Secretary of State ; ( c ) the Secretary of State have lay the report of the independent review before Parliament ; and ( d ) the Secretary of State have implement the recommendation of the independent review . " — ( Steve Darling . ) this new clause would delay any payment be take from people who the Government may think owe repayment on Carer ' s Allowance until the independent review into Carer ' s Allowance overpayment have be publish and fully implement . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Jeremy Corbyn Steve Darling Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Rosie Duffield Alex Easton Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Monica Harding Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire James McMurdock Llinos Medi John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Claire Young Z ö e Franklin will Forster Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Hilary Benn Clive Betts Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Kirsteen Sullivan Peter Swallow Mike Tapp David Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 73 , Noes 255 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 10 - liability order ( 1 ) where a person – ( a ) have be find guilty of an offence under section 1 or section 11 of the Fraud Act 2006 , or the offence at common law of conspiracy to defraud , ( b ) that offence relate to fraud commit against a public authority , and ( c ) have not pay the require penalty or not make the require repayment , the Secretary of State must apply to a magistrate ' court or , in Scotland , to the sheriff for an order ( " a liability order " ) against the liable person . ( 2 ) where the Secretary of State apply for a liability order , the magistrate ' court or ( as the case may be ) sheriff shall make the order if satisfy that the payment in question have become payable by the liable person and have not be pay . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may make regulation in relation to England and Wales — ( a ) prescribe the procedure to be follow in deal with an application by the Secretary of State for a liability order ; ( b ) prescribe the form and content of a liability order ; and ( c ) provide that where a magistrate ' court have make a liability order , the person against whom it be make shall , during such time as the amount in respect of which the order be make remain wholly or partly unpaid , be under a duty to supply relevant information to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) where a liability order have be make against a person ( " the liable person " ) , the Secretary of State may use the procedure in Schedule 12 to the Tribunals , Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 ( take control of good ) to recover the amount in respect of which the order be make , to the extent that it remain unpaid . " — ( Rebecca Smith . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Rebecca Paul Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mike Tapp David Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 101 , Noes 258 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 21 - offence of encourage or assist other to commit fraud " ( 1 ) the Social Security Administration Act 1992 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 111a ( dishonest representation for obtain benefit etc ) , after subsection ( 1 g ) insert — " ( 1h ) a person commit an offence if they — ( a ) encourage or assist another person to commit an offence under this section , or ( b ) provide guidance on how to commit an offence under this section . ( 1i ) an offence under this section can be commit where the encouragement , assistance or guidance happen online . ( 1j ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceed five year or an unlimited fine . " ( 3 ) in section 112 ( false representation for obtain benefit etc ) , after subsection ( 1F ) insert — " ( 1 g ) a person commit an offence if they — ( a ) encourage or assist another person to commit an offence under this section , or ( b ) provide guidance on how to commit an offence under this section . ( 1h ) an offence under this section can be commit where the encouragement , assistance or guidance happen online . ( 1i ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a term not exceed five year or an unlimited fine . " " . — ( Rebecca Smith . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Rebecca Paul Jerome Mayhew Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Will Stone Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mike Tapp Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 95 , Noes 257 . question accordingly negative . clause 3 - information notice Amendments make : 23 , page 3 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) journalistic material , or ( b ) exclude material , " this amendment allow an information notice to require a person to give to the Minister information which amount to special procedure material under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 but not any information that amount to journalistic material or exclude material under that Act . Amendment 24 , page 3 , line 25 , leave out " 14 " and insert " 13 " . — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 23 . clause 9 - Incidents etc Amendments make : 25 , page 6 , line 11 , leave out " Part 2 of " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 26 . amendment 26 , page 8 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) in section 105 ( power of Secretary of State to make order and regulation ) , after subsection ( 5 ) insert — ' ( 6 ) in this section , reference to the Secretary of State include reference to the Minister for the Cabinet Office for the purpose of section 26 g ( power to make regulation about public sector fraud investigator ) . ' " — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment mean that section 105 of the Police Reform Act 2002 ( power of Secretary of State to make order and regulation ) apply in relation to the power of the Minister for the Cabinet Office to make regulation under new section 26 g of that Act ( insert by clause 9 of the Bill ) , with the result ( among other thing ) that such regulation would be subject to the negative procedure . clause 22 - amount of deduction Amendments make : 27 , page 14 , line 27 , leave out from " the " to " and " on line 28 and insert " relevant amount , " . this amendment , together with Amendment 28 and Amendment 29 , would mean that the maximum amount to be deduct under a regular direct deduction order under clause 17 in relation to any period of 28 day be to be calculate by reference to the amount the Minister expect to be credit to the account in a month . amendment 28 , page 14 , line 29 , leave out from first " the " to end of line 30 and insert " relevant amount . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 27 . amendment 29 , page 14 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) , the " relevant amount " be the amount that the Minister reasonably expect to be credit to the account in question in ( or in respect of ) a typical month during the period for which the order will have effect , have regard to all statement give to the Minister in relation to the account ( see section 19 ( 2 ) and 31 ( 1 ) ) . " — ( Andrew Western . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 27 . clause 67 - disclosure of information etc : interaction with external constraint Amendments make : 30 , page 36 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) subsection ( 5 ) do not apply in relation to the provision of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 as apply by section 7 . " this amendment have the effect that clause 67 ( 5 ) do not apply in relation to the PACE power give to authorise investigator in relation to investigate suspect fraud against public authority . those power contain their own safeguard around material that be legally privileged . amendment 31 , page 36 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) . — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment remove the statutory provision that a person may not be require under a provision in Part 1 of the Bill to give information which tend to incriminate themselves or their partner . this mean that the normal rule on self - incrimination will apply . clause 70 - Interpretation Amendments make : 76 , page 37 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the offence in section 6 and 7 of that Act ( possess , make or supply article for use in fraud ) , and " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 75 . amendment 75 , page 37 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( ) for the purpose of apply this Part in relation to the offence in section 6 and 7 of the Fraud Act 2006 ( possess , make or supply article for use in fraud ) , reference in this part to fraud against a public authority be to be read as include the commission of those offence by — ( a ) in relation to section 6 of the Fraud Act 2006 , possess or have control of an article for use in the course of or in connection with a fraud against a public authority , and ( b ) in relation to section 7 of that Act , make , adapt , supply or offer to supply an article — ( i ) know that it be design or adapt for use in the course of or in connection with fraud against a public authority , or ( ii ) intend it to be use to commit , or assist in the commission of , fraud against a public authority . " — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment , together with Amendment 76 , mean that the psfa can investigate and pursue enforcement action in respect of the offence in section 6 and 7 of the Fraud Act 2006 ( possess , make or supply article for use in fraud ) where those offence involve article for use in fraud against a public authority . clause 72 - information notice Amendment make : 32 , page 38 , line 24 , leave out Clause 72 . — ( Andrew Western . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment NC17 . clause 73 - Code of practice Amendment make : 33 , page 40 , line 29 , leave out Clause 73 . — ( Andrew Western . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment NC18 . clause 81 - Amendments to the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 Amendment make : 34 , page 46 , line 10 , after " 2 " insert " ( 1 ) ( e ) and ( f ) " . — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment narrow the reference to the power in paragraph 2 of new Schedule 3zd to the Social Security Administration Act 1992 ( insert by Schedule 4 to the Bill ) to those in paragraph 2 ( 1 ) ( e ) and ( f ) , which be the power relevant for section 63 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 . clause 85 - disclosure of information etc : interaction with external constraint Amendments make : 35 , page 49 , line 21 , at end insert " so far as the provision apply in connection with the exercise of power by or on behalf of the Secretary of State " . this amendment limit new section 109H so that it only apply in relation to a provision for the processing of information so far as the provision apply in connection with the exercise of power by or on behalf of the Secretary of State . Amendment 36 , page 50 , line 9 , leave out " on a not for profit basis " and insert " free of charge " . this amendment and Amendment 38 mean that the exception in clause 85 ( 8 ) to the requirement to provide information apply only in relation to service provide free of charge . amendment 37 , page 50 , line 10 , leave out " the provision of temporary accommodation " and insert " service that involve the provision of accommodation " . this amendment mean that service that involve the provision of any accommodation free of charge be cover by the restriction on the disclosure of personal datum in clause 85 ( 8 ) . amendment 38 , page 50 , line 12 , leave out " the recipient of the service " and insert " person receive such a service free of charge " . see the explanatory statement to Amendment 36 . amendment 39 , page 50 , leave out line 14 and 15 and insert — " ( a ) journalistic material , or ( b ) exclude material , " . this amendment allow authorised officer to require information which amount to special procedure material under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 , but not information that amount to journalistic material or exclude material under that Act , to be give to they under the provision of Part 6 ( enforcement ) of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 . amendment 40 , page 50 , line 17 , leave out " 14 " and insert " 13 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 39 . amendment 41 , page 50 , leave out line 18 to 22 and insert — " ( 10 ) but subsection ( 5 ) to ( 9 ) do not apply in relation to — ( a ) the provision of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 as apply by section 109D , and ( b ) Schedule 3zd . " — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment have the effect that section 109H ( 5 ) to ( 9 ) of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 ( insert by clause 85 of the Bill ) do not apply in relation to the PACE power , and equivalent power in Scotland , give to authorise investigator in relation to DWP offence . clause 87 - Independent review Amendment make : 42 , page 50 , line 37 , at end insert " by or on behalf of the Secretary of State " . — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment mean that the independent review function apply in respect of the exercise of function by or on behalf of the Secretary of State , and therefore not in connection with the exercise of function by the Scottish Ministers . clause 89 - Recovery and enforcement mechanism Amendment make : 43 , page 54 , line 31 , at end insert — " other than an amount or a penalty relate to a devolved benefit . ( 2A ) for the purpose of this part — ( a ) a benefit be a devolved benefit if function under this Part be exercisable in relation to the benefit by the Scottish Ministers by virtue of section 53 of the Scotland Act 1998 , read with section 32 of the Scotland Act 2016 , but ( b ) power of the Secretary of State under section 80b ( and Schedule 3za ) and section 80c ( and Schedule 3zb ) be exercisable in relation to the recovery of an amount or a penalty relate to a devolved benefit where arrangement make under section 93 ( 1 ) of the Scotland Act 1998 ( agency arrangement ) have the effect that the Secretary of State be to exercise any function of the Scottish Ministers under this Part on behalf of the Scottish Ministers in relation to the benefit . ( see also section ( Powers of Scottish Ministers ) of the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Act 2025 . ) " . — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment mean that the new power of recovery be not available in relation to a devolved benefit , except where the Secretary of State exercise function of the Scottish Ministers in relation to that benefit under agency arrangement . clause 99 - application and limitation Amendments make : 79 , page 62 , line 10 , leave out " an England and Wales " and insert " a relevant " . this amendment , together with amendment 78 and 77 , replace reference to " an England and Wales public authority " with reference to " a relevant public authority " ( but this do not affect the substance of the reference ) . amendment 78 , page 62 , line 18 , leave out " England and Wales " and insert " relevant " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 79 . amendment 77 , page 62 , line 22 , leave out " an " England and Wales " and insert " a " relevant " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 79 . amendment 74 , page 62 , line 24 , leave out " or a devolved Welsh authority " . this amendment , together with Amendment 73 , mean that the extension to time limit for bring claim in relation to fraud against public authority in connection with covid applie to claim bring by devolve Welsh authority ( as well as other English , Welsh or UK - wide body exercise reserve function ) . amendment 73 , page 62 , line 30 , leave out paragraph ( c ) . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 74 . amendment 44 , page 62 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( ) in the Prescription and Limitation ( Scotland ) Act 1973 , in Schedule 1 ( obligation affect by prescriptive period of 5 year under section 6 ) , in paragraph 2 ( fb ) ( i ) , at the end insert ' , include as amend by the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Act 2025 ' . " this amendment ensure that the reference in paragraph 2 ( fb ) ( i ) of Schedule 1 to the Prescription and Limitation ( Scotland ) Act 1973 to Part 3 of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 be to that Part as amend by this Bill . — ( Andrew Western . ) schedule 1 - fraud against public authority : Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 power Amendments make : 72 , page 66 , leave out line 20 to 22 and insert — " ' ( 2A ) subsection ( 2B ) apply where an authorised investigator — ( a ) have seize something or take something away follow a requirement make by virtue of section 19 or 20 on the basis that it be evidence of an offence , and ( b ) consider that the thing may be evidence that be relevant to an investigation of an offence ( whether or not the offence mention in paragraph ( a ) ) in relation to which another person have function . ( 2B ) where this subsection apply — ( a ) an authorised investigator may transfer the thing to that person , ( b ) where that person consider that the thing may be evidence that be relevant to an investigation in relation to which that person have function , that person may accept and retain the thing , and ( c ) any provision of an enactment that apply to anything seize or take away by that person apply to the thing as if it have be seize or take away by that person for the purpose of the investigation of the relevant offence . ( 2C ) in subsection ( 2B ) ( c ) , " enactment " include an enactment contain in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978 . ' ; " . this amendment allow an authorised investigator to transfer something seize in the exercise of PACE power to another person with function in relation to an offence to which the thing be relevant . amendment 45 , page 66 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) schedule 1 ( special procedure ) be to be read as if — ( a ) in paragraph 1 , for ' one or other of the set of access condition ' there be substitute " the first set of access condition " ; ( b ) in paragraph 2 ( a ) ( ii ) , for ' and do not also include exclude material ' there be substitute " , or consist of or include exclude material , " ; ( c ) paragraph 3 ( second set of access condition ) be omit ; ( d ) in paragraph 12 — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) ( i ) , for ' either set of access condition ' there be substitute " the first set of access condition " ; ( ii ) paragraph ( b ) be omit . " this amendment mean that the Minister can obtain material that be exclude material under Schedule 1 to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 as apply by clause 7 of the Bill . — ( Andrew Western . ) schedule 3 - Eligibility Verification ETC Amendment propose : 11 , page 73 , line 25 , leave out from " account " to the end of line 31 and insert — " which belong to a person who the authorised officer have reasonable ground to suspect have commit , be commit or intend to commit a DWP offence . " — ( Neil Duncan - Jordan . ) this amendment would limit the exercise of an eligibility verification notice to case where the welfare recipient be suspect of wrongdoing . question put , that the amendment be make . Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Jeremy Corbyn Steve Darling Ann davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Alex Easton will Forster Mary Foy Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Monica Harding Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Rachael Maskell John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi John Milne Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Jon Trickett Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Claire Young Chris Hinchliff Iqbal Mohamed Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Hilary Benn Clive Betts Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon James McMurdock Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Andrew Ranger Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Peter Swallow Mike Tapp David Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Gen Kitchen the House divide : Ayes 85 , Noes 238 . question accordingly negative . schedule 3 - Eligibility verification etc Amendment make : 46 , page 87 , line 3 , leave out " 109B and 109bza " and insert " 109BZA and 109bzb " . — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC17 . schedule 4 - social security fraud : search and seizure power etc amendment make : 47 , page 88 , line 16 , after " for " insert — " ( a ) the reference to any other offence in section 19 ( 3 ) ( a ) , and " . this amendment allow a DWP authorise investigator in England or Wales , while search premise under a warrant , to seize anything they reasonably believe to be evidence of any offence ( not just a DWP offence ) if they reasonably believe it be necessary to do so to prevent the evidence be conceal , lose , alter or destroy . amendment 48 , page 89 , leave out line 18 to 20 and insert — " " ( 2A ) subsection ( 2B ) apply where an authorised investigator — ( a ) have seize something or take something away follow a requirement make by virtue of section 19 or 20 on the basis that it be evidence of an offence , and ( b ) consider that the thing may be evidence that be relevant to an investigation of an offence ( whether or not the offence mention in paragraph ( a ) ) in relation to which another person have function . ( 2B ) where this subsection apply — ( a ) an authorised investigator may transfer the thing to that person , ( b ) where that person consider that the thing may be evidence that be relevant to an investigation in relation to which that person have function , that person may accept and retain the thing , and ( c ) any provision of an enactment that apply to anything seize or take away by that person apply to the thing as if it have be seize or take away by that person for the purpose of the investigation of the relevant offence . ( 2C ) in subsection ( 2B ) ( c ) , " enactment " include — ( a ) an enactment contain in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978 , and ( b ) an enactment contain in , or in an instrument make under , an Act of the Scottish Parliament . " ; " . this amendment allow an authorised investigator to transfer something seize in the exercise of PACE power in England and Wales to another person with function in relation to an offence to which the thing be relevant . amendment 49 , line 24 , at begin insert " subject to paragraph ( 2A ) , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 50 . Amendment 50 , page 91 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the power to seize and remove a document , equipment or other item or material on the premise may be exercise if the person have reasonable ground for believe — ( a ) that it be evidence in relation to any offence , and ( b ) it be necessary to seize it in order to prevent the evidence be conceal , lose , alter or destroy . " this amendment allow a DWP authorise investigator in Scotland , while search premise under a warrant , to seize an item they reasonably believe to be evidence of any offence ( not just a DWP offence ) if they reasonably believe it be necessary to do so to prevent the evidence be conceal , lose , alter or destroy . Amendment 51 , page 91 , line 31 , leave out " or material " . this amendment correct a reference to an " item subject to legal privilege " , which be a define term . amendment 52 , page 92 , line 10 , leave out " three month " and insert " one month " . this amendment require a warrant under paragraph 1 of Schedule 3ZD , which apply in relation to Scotland , to be execute within one month rather than three month . this be consistent with the usual practice in Scotland . Amendment 53 , page 92 , line 30 , leave out " of item " and insert " under paragraph 2 ( 1 ) ( d ) " . this amendment correct an inconsistency in terminology . amendment 54 , page 93 , line 6 , leave out " an item " and insert " something " . this amendment correct an inconsistency in terminology . Amendment 55 , page 93 , line 7 , leave out " item " and insert " thing " . this amendment correct an inconsistency in terminology . amendment 56 , page 93 , line 11 , leave out " item " and insert " thing " . this amendment correct an inconsistency in terminology . amendment 57 , page 93 , line 14 , leave out " a DWP " and insert " an " . this amendment ensure that an authorised investigator do not need to give a person access to something that have be seize if the investigator believe that do so would prejudice the investigation of any offence ( not just a DWP offence ) . amendment 58 , page 93 , line 15 , leave out " a DWP " and insert " an " . this amendment ensure that an authorised investigator do not need to give a person access to something that have be seize if the investigator believe that do so would prejudice criminal proceeding relate to any offence ( not just a DWP offence ) . amendment 59 , page 93 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) sub - paragraph ( 8 ) apply where — ( a ) the power in paragraph 2 ( 1 ) ( d ) have be exercise to seize and remove something on the basis that it be evidence of an offence , and ( b ) an authorised investigator consider that the thing may be evidence that be relevant to an investigation of an offence ( whether or not the offence mention in paragraph ( a ) ) in relation to which another person have function . ( 8 ) where this sub - paragraph apply — ( a ) an authorised investigator may transfer the thing to that person , ( b ) where that person consider that the thing may be evidence that be relevant to an investigation in relation to which that person have function , that person may accept and retain the thing , and ( c ) any provision of an enactment that apply to anything seize or take away by that person apply to the thing as if it have be seize or take away by that person for the purpose of the investigation of the relevant offence . ( 9 ) in sub - paragraph ( 8 ) ( c ) , " enactment " include — ( a ) an enactment contain in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978 , and ( b ) an enactment contain in , or in an instrument make under , an Act of the Scottish Parliament . " this amendment allow an authorised investigator to transfer something seize in the exercise of entry , search and seizure power in Scotland to another person with function in relation to an offence to which the thing be relevant . amendment 60 , page 94 , line 13 , leave out " 7 " and insert " 10 work " . this amendment replace the reference to 7 day with a reference to 10 working day , which be the standard time for comply with a production order in Scotland . amendment 61 , page 94 , line 24 , after " record " insert " within paragraph 9b ( 1 ) ( a ) " . see my explanatory statement for Amendment 63 . amendment 62 , page 95 , line 42 , after " record " insert " within paragraph 9b ( 1 ) ( a ) " . see my explanatory statement for Amendment 63 . amendment 63 , page 96 , line 7 , at end insert — " mean of " item subject to legal privilege " 9a in this schedule , " item subject to legal privilege " be — ( a ) communication between a professional legal adviser and their client , or ( b ) communication make in connection with or in contemplation of legal proceeding and for the purpose of those proceeding , which would be protect in legal proceeding from disclosure by virtue of any rule of law relate to the confidentiality of communication . meaning of " exclude material " 9b ( 1 ) in this schedule , " exclude material " mean — ( a ) personal record which a person have acquire or create in the course of any trade , business , profession or other occupation or for the purpose of any paid or unpaid office and which the person hold in confidence ; ( b ) human tissue or tissue fluid which have be take for the purpose of diagnosis or medical treatment and which a person hold in confidence ; ( c ) journalistic material which a person hold in confidence and which consist — ( i ) of document , or ( ii ) of record other than document . ( 2 ) a person hold material other than journalistic material in confidence for the purpose of this paragraph if the person hold it subject — ( a ) to an express or imply undertaking to hold it in confidence , or ( b ) to a restriction on disclosure or an obligation of secrecy contain in any enactment , whenever pass . ( 3 ) a person hold journalistic material in confidence for the purpose of this paragraph if — ( a ) the person hold it subject to such an undertaking , restriction or obligation , and ( b ) it have be continuously hold ( by one or more person ) subject to such an undertaking , restriction or obligation since it be first acquire or create for the purpose of journalism . meaning of " personal record " 9C in this schedule , " personal record " mean documentary and other record concern an individual ( whether live or dead ) who can be identify from they and relate — ( a ) to the person ' s physical or mental health , ( b ) to spiritual counselling or assistance give or to be give to the person , or ( c ) to counselling or assistance give or to be give to the person , for the purpose of the person ' s personal welfare , by any voluntary organisation or by any individual who — ( i ) by reason of the person ' s office or occupation have responsibility for the person ' s personal welfare , or ( ii ) by reason of an order of a court have responsibility for the person ' s supervision . meaning of " journalistic material " 9D ( 1 ) in this schedule , " journalistic material " mean material acquire or create for the purpose of journalism . ( 2 ) but material be only journalistic material for the purpose of this schedule if it be in the possession of a person who acquire or create it for the purpose of journalism . ( 3 ) a person who receive material from someone who intend that the recipient be to use it for the purpose of journalism be to be take to have acquire it for those purpose . mean of " special procedure material " 9E ( 1 ) in this schedule , " special procedure material " mean — ( a ) material to which sub - paragraph ( 2 ) apply , and ( b ) journalistic material , other than exclude material . ( 2 ) subject to the follow provision of this paragraph , this sub - paragraph apply to material , other than item subject to legal privilege and exclude material , in the possession of a person who — ( a ) acquire or create it in the course of any trade , business , profession or other occupation or for the purpose of any paid or unpaid office , and ( b ) hold it subject — ( i ) to an express or imply undertaking to hold it in confidence , or ( ii ) to a restriction or obligation such as be mention in paragraph 9b ( 2 ) ( b ) . ( 3 ) where material be acquire — ( a ) by an employee from the employee ' s employer and in the course of the employee ' s employment , or ( b ) by a company from an associated company , it be only special procedure material if it be special procedure material immediately before the acquisition . ( 4 ) where material be create by an employee in the course of the employee ' s employment , it be only special procedure material if it would have be special procedure material have the employer create it . ( 5 ) where material be create by a company on behalf of an associated company , it be only special procedure material if it would have be special procedure material have the associate company create it . ( 6 ) a company be to be treat as another ' s associate company for the purpose of this paragraph if it would be so treat under section 449 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 . meaning of " confidential professional material " 9f in this schedule , " confidential professional material " mean material to which paragraph 9E ( 2 ) apply . " this amendment , together with Amendments 61 , 62 , 64 , 65 and 66 , would replace reference in new Schedule 3zd to definition in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 with free - stand definition . the free - stand definition be the same as those in the 1984 Act , except that the definition of " item subject to legal privilege " reflect the usual language in relation to legal privilege in Scotland . Amendment 64 , page 96 , line 8 , at the begin insert " other " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 63 . amendment 65 , page 96 , leave out line 12 to 21 . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 63 . amendment 66 , page 96 , leave out line 29 and 30 . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 63 . amendment 67 , page 96 , line 30 , at end insert — " ' working day ' mean a day other than — ( a ) a Saturday or a Sunday , or ( b ) a day which be a bank holiday in Scotland under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 . " — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 60 . schedule 5 - Recovery from bank account etc amendment make : 68 , page 101 , leave out line 18 and insert " relevant amount . " this amendment and Amendment 69 mean that the maximum amount to be deduct under a regular direct deduction order under new Schedule 3za ( to be insert into the Social Security Administration Act 1992 by Schedule 5 to the Bill ) in relation to any period of one month be to be calculate by reference to the amount the Secretary of State expect to be credit to the account in a month . amendment 69 , page 101 , leave out line 19 to 22 and insert — " ( 4 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , the " relevant amount " be the amount that the Secretary of State reasonably expect to be credit to the account in question in ( or in respect of ) a typical month during the period for which the order will have effect , have regard to all statement give to the Secretary of State in relation to the account ( see paragraph 3 ( 2 ) and 15 ( 1 ) ) . " . — ( Andrew Western . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 68 Schedule 6 - disqualification from drive Amendment make : 70 , page 114 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( ) for the purpose of this paragraph , " drive licence " include any document by virtue of which a person be authorise under Part 3 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 to drive a motor vehicle in Great Britain . " — ( Andrew Western . ) this amendment mean that the definition of " drive licence " in paragraph 5 of Schedule 6 include any document by virtue of which a person be authorise under Part 3 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 to drive a motor vehicle in Great Britain . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this Labour Government be elect on a mandate for change — to create more good job in every corner of the country , to drive up living standard for work people and to get our vital public service back on their foot . deliver our plan for change mean ensure that every single pound of taxpayer ' money be wisely spend and go to those in genuine need . that be what this legislation will help to deliver , with the big - ever crackdown on fraud against the public purse . it be unacceptable that the Conservative Government allow fraud against the public sector to spiral to £ 55 billion a year . that include a staggering £ 7 . 4 billion a year of benefit fraud alone . it be unforgiveable that they fail to ensure that the Public Sector Fraud Authority be fit for purpose , or to properly update the DWP ' s anti - fraud power for 14 long year . when we think of all the new way in which fraudster and scam artist rip people off , include by use datum and technology , that simply beggar belief . today we say : no more . our Bill update the power of the Public Sector Fraud Authority so that it can effectively fight fraud across the public sector on behalf of Government Departments and public authority . it also make vital upgrade to the DWP ' s fraud power and set out new power to investigate fraud , so that for the first time , our serious and organised crime investigator can apply to the court for a warrant to enter and search the premise of suspect fraudster , and can seize evidence such as computer and phone . there be update power to gather information , so that we can compel third party such as airline to give we information , and can require it to be deliver electronically , so that we can tackle fraud as quick as possible . our new eligibility verification measure will enable we to get crucial datum from bank and financial institution to check if people be get money they be not entitle to , and if they have more saving than the rule allow , or be fraudulently claim benefit abroad when they should be live in the UK . the Bill extend financial penalty to people who have fraudulently claim any type of DWP payment , include grant and loan , not just benefit , and it give we new power to get money back from people who can pay but who have repeatedly fail to do so , bring our power in line with those of other part of Government , such as the Child Maintenance Service and HMRC . all this be be do in a fair and proportionate way ; the measure be tightly define in the legislation , and there be strong safeguard and independent oversight , include through annual report to Parliament and code of practice , which we will bring forward in Committee in the other place . I thank the Minister for Transformation and the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , for steer the Bill through its Committee and Report stage , support by excellent civil servant and House of Commons staff . I thank all member of the Public Bill Committee from right across the House for their detailed question and thoughtful scrutiny of the Bill . they have do this country a good service , because this Bill provide we with the tool we need to tackle modern fraud in the benefit system and across the public sector , help to save £ 1 . 5 billion over the next five year as part of the DWP ' s wide action to save a total of £ 9 . 6 billion from benefit fraud and error . People who work hard and play by the rule , and people who depend on our public service and vital benefit , deserve to have trust and faith in the system , and they be rightly angry when they see people abuse it . our message be clear : if you knowingly defraud the benefit system or cheat our public service , whether you be a large or small company , a criminal gang or an individual , we will find you ; we will stop you ; and we will get our money back . this Labour Government will restore trust and fairness in the system and ensure that every pound of public money deliver for the british people and our country . I commend this legislation to the House . I call the shadow Minister . every penny of taxpayer ' money lose to fraud or error be money waste , so we conservative support many of the measure outline in the Bill , not least those that continue the hard work do by my colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions prior to the general election . the Government have a responsibility to ensure that every penny they raise in taxation be spend well . that be fair to taxpayer , who have work hard to earn that money . when it come to welfare , at the heart of our system must be the principle that Government support should go only to those for whom it be intend . every penny that do not undermine the entire system . it erode public trust and support . that have put support for some of the most vulnerable people in society at risk . that be why , in government , we do the groundwork for the clause of the Bill that enable bank to help crack down on fraudster , recognise that while the state should never be able to see what someone spend their money on , it should be able to check whether they be entitle to the money that they be claim . the amendment we have table to the Bill be constructive , so I be disappointed that the Government have choose not to support they . video from sickfluencer be hard to avoid when search online about benefit , but rather than help people to claim something that they may need and should rightly receive , the video tell people how to game the system . we want taxpayer to get their money back , even if it have already be spend . why should we tolerate people use social medium platform to help other commit fraud , and to help they cheat the test that be there to ensure that support go to those who need it ? why should someone who have commit fraud be able to keep their high - end television or luxury car , just because they spend their ill - get gain before the Department get to they ? we be clear that both those thing should be tackle , but sadly Labour have show itself to be on the side of the fraudster . as I say at the outset , we back the overall purpose of the Bill and much of its content , but I hope that the Secretary of State ' s colleague in the other place will take note of the constructive approach we have take and the argument make , particularly those make so articulately by my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) today and in Committee . I look forward to see the Bill improve before it may become law . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Forensic Science Regulator that the draft Forensic Science Regulator Draft Code of Practice 2025 ( Version 2 ) , which be lay before this House on 20 March , be approve . — ( Sir Nic Dakin . ) question agree to . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of the Prime Minister relate to Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England ( Appointment ) not later than one hour after their commencement ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; and proceeding may be enter upon and may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Electoral Commission : re - appointment of Chair [ relevant document : Second Report of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , re - appointment of the Chair of the Electoral Commission , HC 829 . ] order , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that his Majesty will re - appoint John Pullinger CB as the Chair of the Electoral Commission with effect from 1 May 2025 for the period end on 30 April 2029 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England [ relevant document : First Report of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , Appointment of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , HC 781 . ] I beg to move , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that his Majesty will appoint Paula Sussex CBE to the office of Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England . the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman have an important role in hold public service provider to account and achieve justice for complainant . I thank Rebecca Hilsenrath KC , who step in as act ombudsman follow Sir Rob Behrens ' s departure . she provide leadership and stability for the PHSO , ensure a continue focus on the experience of its service user , while consider how to maximise the impact of the organisation in improve public service for the long term . on behalf of this House , I praise she for her hard work over the past 12 month , and wish she all the good for her future as the PHSO ' s chief executive officer . follow the formation of a new Parliament , the process of recruit a new ombudsman be relaunche in January . I thank the House and the recruitment panel , particularly the chair , Liam Laurence Smyth , for their speed in conduct the recruitment ; they make a recommendation to the Prime Minister in March . the Government support Paula Sussex ' s appointment to the role , as we believe that she have the ability and experience to lead the PHSO , bring insight from her time in the public and private sector . in accordance with section 1 of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 , and section 1 of the Health Service Commissioners Act 1993 , I commend Paula Sussex to the House for the role of Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England . I be pleased to speak in support of this important motion concern the appointment of the next Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England — collectively know as the ombudsman . that office be one of the cornerstone of accountability in our democracy . it exist to ensure that when individual be let down by Government Departments or the NHS , their voice be hear , their complaint be fairly investigate and , where appropriate , redress be deliver . in short , the ombudsman play a vital role in protect the right of ordinary citizen , especially the most vulnerable among we . I be sure that , if they have not do so already , member on all side of the House will at some point refer constituent to the ombudsman — I certainly have . this appointment come at a critical moment . our public service , particularly the NHS , be under real pressure . complaint relate to delay , miscommunication and administrative failure be unfortunately become more common . in that context , the role of the ombudsman be not just reactive ; it must be proactive in identify systemic failing and recommend improvement to prevent harm before it occur . we conservative have carefully consider the propose candidate , and believe that she bring a strong track record to the role , a deep understanding of institutional accountability and a proven ability to lead with integrity . it be great to have the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , involve in the selection process . we must have confidence that the next commissioner can act independently of Government and party politic , guide only by the principle of fairness and the interest of the public . the effectiveness of this role lie not in its visibility but in its vigilance . the ombudsman must be diligent , thorough and fearless in pursuit of justice , particularly for those who may feel powerless in the face of large institution . this role be not an easy one . it require judgment , patience , empathy and a readiness to confront uncomfortable truth . we believe the nominee have those quality and will serve the public with distinction . we therefore support this motion for the sake of those who rely on these service and for the sake of good government . I echo the Minister in thank Rebecca Hilsenrath for the work she have do in step into an interim role and fulfil that job with great distinction . I also thank the Prime Minister and the wide Cabinet Office for the speed with which they respond to the recommendation from the interview panel , which I have the great pleasure of sit on as the representative of the House , as Chairman of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . I want to bring two thing to the attention of the House . Paula Sussex undergo a pre - appointment hearing by the Committee last week , and the Committee be very impressed with she . she report to our Committee ; we scrutinise the work of the ombudsman . I recuse myself from that role for obvious reason , but I want to assure the House — and this have be echo by the Minister and my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) — that I be convinced we select the standout candidate in a very competitive and well - qualified field . I think she will fulfil the job with great distinction , use the datum available to drive improvement to public service and , as everybody recognise , represent and champion the interest and concern of our constituent . I will respond briefly to echo the thank to the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for his role on the panel , which be critical . it be important that this role have cross - party support and that this appointment have the confidence of the House , to ensure that this important role can be fulfil with rigour and independence , that our citizen always have a voice in public service and that public service provider be accountable to Parliament . I recommend this appointment to the House . question put and agree to . Petition - Allotments in Wymondham I rise to present a petition concern the future of allotment in Wymondham , sign by 391 resident of South Norfolk . these signature reflect the strength of feeling in the town about the importance of these much - love grow space . the decision by Anglian Water to end the lease of this land risk tear up decade of community gardening , friendship and pride . it be clear from the response of local people that this be not just about soil and shed — it be about the social fabric of Wymondham . it be vital that this issue be bring before the House , so that those in position of power understand what this land mean to those who tend it . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of South Norfolk , declare that the allotmenteer of Wymondham be sadden by the ending of the lease of the land by Anglian Water to Wymondham Town Council , which will result in the loss of allotment plot . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Anglian Water to uphold its corporate responsibility to local people and area , include the allotmenteer of Wymondham . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003057 ] Petition - Protection of Primitive Goat Species in the Scottish Borders I rise to present this petition from my constituent to the House of Commons , which be put together by the Wild Goat Conservation Group , particularly David Braithwaite and Gail Brown . it call for the cull of wild goat on Langholm moor and Newcastleton hill to stop . I want to record my thank to the more than 4 , 300 people from across the United Kingdom who have sign a similar online petition on this matter and to my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) for his support . the petition " declare that wild goat have be roam Langholm Moor and Newcastleton Hill for hundred of year and play an important part in the biodiversity and natural history of the Scottish Borders … Oxygen Conservation who own the land they roam have " — callously — " start to cull this ancient animal without … consideration to the historical and emotional significance they carry for the local community … the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to make representation to the Scottish Government on their behalf , to encourage they to stop the cull of wild goat on Langholm Moor and Newcastleton Hill and ensure the survival of this ancient animal in the Scottish Borders by grant they national protect status . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk , declare that wild goat have be roam Langholm Moor and Newcastleton Hill for hundred of year and play an important part in the biodiversity and natural history of the Scottish Borders ; far declare that , despite this , Oxygen Conservation who own the land that they roam have start to cull this ancient animal without any consideration to the historical and emotional significance they carry for the local community ; and note that over 4 , 300 people have sign a similar petition to the Scottish Parliament on this issue . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to make representation to the Scottish Government on their behalf , to encourage they to stop the cull of wild goat on Langholm Moor and Newcastleton Hill and ensure the survival of this ancient animal in the Scottish Borders by grant they national protect status . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003064 ] Petition - the Future of Acoustic Couch , Bracknell the Acoustic Couch be a fantastic , inclusive community - run grassroots music venue in the heart of Bracknell . grassroots music venue play a huge role in community across the country but have face substantial difficulty in recent year , and I know the Government recognise the need to protect they . the petition state : the petition of resident of Bracknell and supporter of the Acoustic Couch , declare that the Acoustic Couch be a community - run grassroots music venue that contribute richly to the culture and economy of Bracknell ; far declare that the current venue which house the Acoustic Couch be under a carpark that be no long structurally sound , and will therefore be close from the end of 2025 ; note that Bracknell Forest Council have be work with the Acoustic Couch to identify possible alternative venue , but an affordable and accessible location have yet to be identify ; and far declare that grassroots music venue across the country have face substantial difficulty in recent year , and recognise the need to protect their invaluable contribution to our share music heritage . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider what support can be make available to secure the future of the Acoustic Couch in Bracknell . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003065 ] River Thames : Unauthorised Mooring Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) no issue in my constituency demonstrate more the inertia and failure of the previous political leadership than the problem of overstay , wreck and abandon boat that have be leave to proliferate along the bank of the Thames for the last decade . I be pleased to have the opportunity today to bring this issue to the attention of the House and the Minister . Esher and Walton be a river community . the Thames form our boundary with London ; its water have bring viking to raid Walton and king to live in Hampton Court , and it be love by my constituent . we have row club in Molesey and Walton that generate home - grow Olympians , the Ajax and Viking sea scout , and wild swimming group . we have riverside business that contribute to our local economy and provide resident and tourist with access to the most famous river in our land . all these activity have be impact by the sunken , wreck and abandon boat , alongside unlicensed overstay boat . they line the entire length of my constituency , from the ditton through Molesey and down into Walton - on - Thames . there be wreck vessel , half sink and rusting , on the bank opposite Hampton Court Palace , visible to the hundred of thousand of tourist who visit . next door , there be overstay boat which one constituent describe as a " small village " ; it be dickensian . the overstay boat be almost always unregistered . they turn up , moor , and then stay for month , sometimes year . in addition to this impunity , they generate litter and waste . some boat apparently operate as Airbnbs . other have erect fence : they have fence off public land on the towpath , put up " keep out " and " private " sign , and intimidate resident . stretch of land — our riverbank , enjoy for century by my constituent — have become no - go area characterise by drug use and antisocial behaviour . I commend the hon . Lady for introduce this debate . I speak to she beforehand to hear her thought on what she hope to achieve . I represent a constituency that be equally as nice as hers , and I can well understand the desire to stay and take advantage of the lovely location on the River Thames . however , the people she describe be take advantage and prevent other from have enjoyment that be mean for all . do she agree that we must have regulation in place that allow for reasonable enjoyment , without people take advantage ? the hon . Gentleman make the main point that I want to make today : I will speak about regulation and who be accountable . one resident tell I : " in the past few year , my neighbour and I have be subject to constant harassment , include threat of physical harm , theft of property , firing of catapult , fly - tipping , dog fouling and antisocial behaviour . " that be profoundly unfair on my constituent . resident who pay their taxis have lose the river as they know it . rowing club and boat hire and paddle board company be unable to launch . resident with boat who want to take they out and moor alongside riverside restaurant and caf é s be unable to do so . the Molesey regatta , which have be a fixture of my community since 1867 and in which I declare an interest as an honorary president , have be require to alter the course of its race . in October , a single clean - up of one stretch of riverbank populate by these boat yield more than 1 tonne of waste . the Environment Agency have fail to get to grip with the situation over a period of year , mean that the number of such boat in Elmbridge have rise steadily . at the last count , the tally be approach 250 . in Maidenhead , the local authority and generous individual have take matter into their own hand and have be able to get rid of many sunken boat along our stretch of the Thames . the EA have regard owner of land as be responsible , but lot of riverbank owner be not know — we do not know who lot of the mooring owner be — and that cause significant delay and cost . do my hon . friend agree that it be time for the Environment Agency to step up and take responsibly ? it should be support our community , rather than try to pass on responsibility to unknown landowner . my hon . friend be absolutely right . in my constituency , the sense of frustration and disappointment with the Environment Agency be palpable . when a highly visible problem go unaddresse year after year , as it have for a decade , and when a situation be allow to deteriorate , it create a deep sense of disappointment and frustration , and it undermine the faith that people have in the Government to deal with the thing that affect people ' s day - to - day life . I recognise the frustration and problem that my hon . friend be have get the relevant supervisory authority to pay heed . in Brecon , we have a similar issue : the canal might run dry follow Welsh Water ' s decision to start charge the Canal & River Trust for the water it extract , yet none of the relevant authority have respond to our request for a meeting . do my hon . friend agree that in instance like that , it would be helpful for the Minister whose Department be implicate to pay attention ? they should come to Brecon and help we to find a solution . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , but I would like the Minister to come to Esher and Walton first , although I appreciate his desire for she to visit his constituency as well . my predecessor in Esher and Walton , a previous Deputy Prime Minister , bring the former Environment Secretary to see the problem for herself . they commit to the permanent removal of these boat , but nothing happen : yet another broken conservative promise . either my predecessor be uninterested or he be ineffective . like many , I have hope that the new Government would bring change . I write to the newly appoint Secretary of State and the chief executive of the Environment Agency as soon as I be elect , ask for action . at that point , there be 180 boat . I be pleased with the Minister ' s reply , which acknowledge that the EA , as the navigation authority along the non - tidal Thames , be commit to manage the situation and to deliver a detailed action plan lay out clear step for enforcement . I be assure that EA official wish to regain the trust of the community . as a result of that letter , the EA tow away two of the large and long staying boat during an enforcement day — hooray ! elmbridge borough council housing department join the operation and model a join - up approach with the police and the Environment Agency to respond to any homelessness issue . my local council be ready and willing to play its part , but it be frustrate that the EA be not play its part . the enforcement success in the autumn should have mark the beginning of renew energy and action , with a long - term plan to finally get to grip with the problem . instead , it be follow up with almost nothing , and the situation have since deteriorate . that be despite month and month of advocacy and regular meeting with the EA , in which I have hear again and again about its intention to clear the boat . it have consistently overpromise and underdelivered . I be promise a survey of abandon vessel before comprehensive removal and a long - term strategic enforcement plan as a prelude to make progress in the spring . well , it be spring now , but both document be endlessly delay . last month , the EA finally produce the survey , but it be present so confusingly that the council find it almost useless , and I be now tell that the EA can not resource any of it . when the plan come , it be manifestly insufficient . in today ' s letter , the Minister reference that document — the Thames waterway compliance and enforcement plan for Elmbridge — which I have read . it run for 10 page and make one minor mention of take action to reduce the number of unauthorised and unregistered boat , which should have be the central focus . as one of its tactical objective , the plan promise to develop a clear and tactical plan . we have yet another promise , but no plan . all in all , the document mark a dramatic roll - back of previous ambition . it have an almost complete lack of measurable target , metric and accountability mechanism . in other word , there be no way to assess the progress of the EA in deliver outcome against agree objective or on key concern , such as the number of boat remove , the number of registration offence or the rubbish clear . in fact , at our last meeting , the area manager suggest that the problem have become so big that it be too expensive to fix . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour for give way — river have two bank , and we share one of they . I congratulate Spelthorne borough council , the EA and the police on do such a good job on the Spelthorne side . I offer my support to the hon . member in her endeavour to make her side of the river well . if we can give any assistance , we will of course do so . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour . I would love to work with he , the Environment Agency , our relevant borough council and the police in order to fix this problem . I thank the hon . Lady for give way in such an important debate . I entirely share her frustration about progress with these boat . this issue affect many of my constituent not just in Weybridge , but across my constituency . I be sure that she will come on to this point . give the nature of river , do she agree that a positive step forward would be work with I , my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) and the Minister to try to get a group together so that rather than push the boat on , we can tackle the issue once and for all ? I thank the hon . member , my constituency neighbour , for that point . I have no intention at all of push the boat down to his constituency : I want they go . there can be nothing more powerful for our constituent than we work across party in order to fix this problem . the BBC pick up on this story this morning . the EA give a statement to BBC Radio Surrey in which it claim to be take " firm , lawful and proportionate action " . that be manifestly not the case : the action be not firm or proportionate . it also say that the current situation highlight the need for a " more sustainable , systemic response " and pledge a " long - term approach " . this be the same hot air that we have hear for year and year , waffle on about the need for long - term plan while the situation deteriorate . all in all , this be a sad indictment of the poverty of ambition , application and competence in a body charge by taxpayer with protect our waterway . indeed , it be hard to overstate the disappointment of my constituent at the seem inability of the Environment Agency to deliver result , even against objective that it or the Secretary of State have set . this be the endless cycle : the most basic promise make to resident , the council or I be jettison after month of prevarication ; the goal that remain be without measurement or accountability . I worry from the Minister ' s letter to I this afternoon that , regrettably , nothing will change , apart from her very kind ask of the Environment Agency to review its enforcement approach and her commitment to strengthen the EA ' s approach . I be keen to hear how she intend to follow up on those point . I be deeply frustrated that much of the letter repeat what I , my resident and the council have be hear from the EA for month and year : promise of new plan and more join - up working , and recognition of past disappointment and the need for change . the Environment Agency say that it want to regain the trust of my constituent . that trust be at rock bottom . what be need now be far great oversight — ministerial if necessary — and accountability against specific and deliverable goal . I recently attend a public meeting with resident of Hurst Park and Molesey on a Friday night that be pack to the rafter with constituent deeply upset and justifiably angry with the situation . the essence of what people call break Britain be the sense that the public realm be incapable of solve problem , even the most egregious and obvious one — those that people and business see and feel every single day . the Prime Minister and member of the Government have speak repeatedly about the need to rebuild trust in the state , rebuild its capacity , and show the people that system can work and achieve thing . something that my resident and I have find particularly frustrating be the difficulty of attach any accountability at all to anyone at any point , despite failure after failure . a failure to act deprive these people who I be privileged to represent — those who play by the rule and pay for public service — of the land , peace and natural beauty that they have always enjoy . I ask the Minister to give this matter her personal attention , and to work with I to solve it as a matter of priority . I would like she to work with I to show the people of Esher and Walton that good politic make thing well . boat list by the Environment Agency as wreck or abandon can , and should , be clear immediately . do so quickly and forcefully , rather than piecemeal , remove one of the permanent risk of those boat — namely , that a change in river condition could dislodge vessel and transform they into immediate hazard . clear overstayed boat require take legal step , and it be vital that this work be consistently and properly resource . take a start - and - stop approach be not an option , because many enforcement mechanism unlock by serve initial notice on boat must be complete within a certain period of time . let opportunity disappear set everything back to square one . the local police and the local council be ready and eager to help , and have put resource aside to do their part . as such , will the Minister commit personally to drive forward meaningful action on this issue through the Environment Agency and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ; to provide the necessary energy and resource ; and to give I a point of contact with official in her department to co - ordinate our work ? will she also commit to meet I , either in this place or in my constituency — where the problem can be see and believe — to discuss the progress that we can make together ? the problem of overstay and sunken boat should not be intractable ; everyone can see the problem , and the solution be obvious . it be time to show that collectively , we can deliver . it be always a pleasure to serve under your chairwomanship , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) on secure this important debate , and welcome the contribution from the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) and for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) as well . in an Adjournment debate , it be very nice to see cross - party work on an issue of local importance . [ interruption . ] I also thank the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) . the Minister will have hear the point we have make about the lack of supervisory authority . will she write to the Welsh Minister responsible and ask he to look into the case of the Brecon canal ? order . the hon . Gentleman be very quick on his foot . I call the Minister . obviously , water be a devolved matter . I do not want to get into an issue for which power be devolve , or I would be instruct a Welsh Minister about what they should or should not be do . I encourage the hon . member to write back to the Welsh Minister , and maybe copy in the Secretary of State for Wales . that might be one way forward , rather than a Minister in this place be see to tell a Minister in a different government what they should or should not be do . that would be stretch the confine of this debate , to which I will now return . we have hear much this evening about the benefit that our river and canal bring to so many people in our constituency — benefit that have be very eloquently articulate by hon . member . we have hear about the Vikings , about Olympians and about how important waterway be to everyone in our area . I be pleased to hear about the enforcement success in the autumn , but obviously disappoint to hear that progress have not be what it should have be . I will come on to that issue later . our inland waterway be an asset to our country . they be important to our national heritage and provide many public benefit — people live on they , enjoy be by they and use they for leisure and recreation , as well as their historical value . they form an important part of our natural environment by provide green corridor along which biodiversity can flourish , as well as contribute to the growth of local economy , such as through domestic tourism . we have hear quite a lot about that this evening . the hon . member for Esher and Walton have eloquently speak of the beauty and tranquillity of the river in her constituency , and it be indeed one of our most majestic river as it wind its way along . our navigation authority have an important role to play into the future , and I pay tribute to they all as they maintain our waterway for the benefit of all user . I pay tribute to their staff , who deal with many varied situation on a daily basis , sometimes in difficult circumstance . those authority will help to ensure that a significant element of our nation ' s key infrastructure be resilient to climate change , and they will help we to meet our net zero target through sustainable transport and energy generation . they will also contribute to water security through flood mitigation measure and water transfer . the hon . Member have speak in detail about overstayed boat in Elmbridge and about boat that be illegally moor or derelict , abandon or sink . she have draw particular attention to the adverse impact that that be have on the use and enjoyment of the river by other waterway user , include those walk along the Thames path . I be concerned to hear account of antisocial behaviour and abuse direct at people try to enjoy the riverway . she have also describe her interaction with the Environment Agency as the navigation authority for the non - tidal River Thames and with other local authority in the area in seek to find a satisfactory resolution . I be pleased to hear the comment about the willingness of the local council and the police to work together on this issue . I recognise the seriousness of the issue in Elmbridge and neighbouring constituency , the understandable strength of feeling locally and the need for co - ordinate action to address they . I assure the hon . member that the Environment Agency , which I have speak to , also understand that and be look to develop specific action towards resolution . I note the point she make about it have a deliverable plan and be see to be take action . in fairness , let I mention the wide context in which the Environment Agency be work when it come to enforcement . any enforcement have to be within the law and careful and proportionate . it have discretionary landowner power , not statutory duty , create limitation for action on private land and where enforcement would cause disproportionate harm . I have have countless meeting with the EA link with Elmbridge and in try to deal with this problem , particularly in Desborough cut and Weybridge . do the Minister think that the EA have sufficient power in statute to be able to tackle this issue ? she just mention discretionary power . do we need to change the law so that this can be deal with once and for all ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his helpful intervention . I be inform by the Environment Agency that it do have the power , but I want to take that point away and question the EA about that . be it a question of need different power , or be the power there through the council and perhaps the police work together ? I have bring up those point with the Environment Agency and the council . they appear to have the statutory power to act . whether they have the will and resource to do it be the stick point . I hope to come on to address some of the thing that the EA want to do . where a boat be a home , especially in case of potential vulnerability , the Environment Agency need to work with local housing and safeguard team to assess welfare concern . that be why it be so important — I welcome the hon . Lady ' s comment on this — that the council be willing to work together . the question be about whether the power be available to remove the boat , but if there be a risk of people become homeless , the situation become more complicated . I thank the Minister for give way again . as I describe , when the two large overstayed boat that have occupant be remove , Elmbridge borough council be there provide support for those people . the police be also there . there be no problem with the manoeuvre that take place on that day . I be really pleased to hear that . I be also pleased when the hon . Lady mention that in her speech as an effective example of agency work together to achieve the same aim . the Environment Agency must use its resource to ensure effective enforcement along the entire 144 mile length of the river — the point have be make about not want to move a problem somewhere else — where similar pressure exist , balance cost and benefit against other priority . when a removal be necessary , it must be carry out within the safety parameter of the river , and when the river be flow fast , the removal may be temporarily suspend . I completely accept the point make this evening that the Environment Agency ' s progress in take appropriate action be not as fast as the hon . Lady would like it to be , but it be none the less positive , and look to the long term rather than a series of short - term measure . the agency have deploy time , staff resource and financial investment in Elmbridge , although , as I have say , I recognise that it have not do so with the speed that the hon . Lady would like . it have use specialist officer , legal team and contractor , with more than £ 150 , 000 spend in 2024 - 25 on enforcement operation , ongoing legal action and vessel removal in the Elmbridge area . several derelict or sunken vessel have be remove between Hampton Court and Shepperton , and legal proceeding continue follow a court ruling cover part of the Elmbridge bank downstream of Sunbury Lock , which be be appeal against . trespass notice have be issue where necessary , and advice have be give to boater on registration , conduct and waste responsibility — the hon . Lady give some example of awful behaviour , include litter — and the Environment Agency have also remove boater waste accumulation from agency and local authority land . on 1 April it publish a strategic framework for enforcement throughout the 144 mile stretch of the river , and it tell I that it have develop an elmbridge - specific compliance and enforcement plan that have be share with local partner for the purpose of their input . however , in the light of the concern raise by the hon . Lady and her constituent , and by the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , the agency be develop a long - term land management strategy to reduce reliance on enforcement and create more sustainable outcome instead . it include the feasibility of additional lawful mooring agreement for register boater , support local authority duty for homelessness and housing , and biodiversity enhancement to deter trespass in sensitive area . the agency will be strengthen collaboration with Elmbridge borough council , Surrey police and community partner on necessary enforcement action , as well as continue current enforcement deploy - ment over the come month . in a wide context , it be certainly true that the legislative landscape surround navigation management be complex , and that this be a largely historical legacy . with the change use of waterway over time , new challenge have emerge in relation to , for instance , residential mooring , and they should be take into account in the shaping of future regulation and planning . we hear a helpful suggestion about the possibility of member form a group to discuss this matter . if such a group be to be convene and if I be to be invite to join it , I would be happy to attend a meeting to discuss what more can be do in this regard . I hope I have reassure the member who have attend this debate that we as a Government greatly value our inland waterway and the work that the navigation authority do to bring so many benefit to so many people . I hope I have also reassure they that the Environment Agency be determined to ensure that its approach to enforcement be fair and proportionate , and will deliver tangible , last outcome where the impact be most acute . question put and agree to . House adjourn .